
 - Mr Deputy Speaker, it is with a great deal of pride that I participate for the first time in the debates of this Parliament. There is pride in the fact that I am one of the relatively small band who have transferred from membership of a State legislature to membership of this House. There is pride also in the electorate of Scullin which I represent and in which I have resided for most of my life. Its boundaries, which include the State electorate of Reservoir which I had the privilege to represent for over 8 years, encompass well developed industrial and residential areas. Within its boundaries are a wide range of community facilities including a university, a large hospital, schools of all types and so on. In fact it is very much a cross section of urban Australia, with people from all walks of life pursuing their day to day activity with all the hopes and aspirations that we have come to expect from Australians. Therefore it is not with specific aspects of the GovernorGeneral's Speech as they affect my electorate that I intend to deal but rather with a couple of matters arising by inference from that Speech as they affect all of us. 
I mention in passing that 1 listened with interest to the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  in his analysis of democracy and the need for participation and training in it. As a Parliament we ought to be concerned with political ideas and ideals, prompting our community to be concerned in the same manner. But what do governments provide for the youth of our community? In what way do we educate the young for participation in democracy? They are served a solid sectionalised and professionalised diet of education from the close of their primary school days. If one follows to the tertiary field one realises the narrowness of training at universities, institutes of technology, teacher training colleges and so on. There is cause for alarm at the end result. They are offered narrow vocational techniques and promise of material success, but there is little air of community responsibility. They see little of moral and ethical values among their elders. Perhaps this is the reason for the growing turmoil among the young and among students, particularly on issues of conscience, as a reaction against the aridity of thought in our community on these matters. 
The Australian Labour Party was founded by men who strove for the wider horizons of education, the principle of loyalty to their fellow workers and their community, the need for associations to achieve these purposes and concepts of justice and democracy for every individual. In fact, I believe these were Australian ideals. Australia is a young and developing nation, and what a pity it is that for want of leadership in the right direction these ideals are being obscured. As a former State member it is only natural that I share in the growing political awareness of the problems of Commonwealth and State relationships. Here, however, as exemplified by the Government's programme outlined in  His  Excellency's Speech, the overriding consideration is the financial relationship. I believe there are some more important con siderations and so I will deal only briefly with the financial aspect. The sordid aspects of this financial relationship in recent years have degraded our parliamentary institutions in the public eye. In his speech tonight the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made comments on many of the details of this relationship. The faults are on both sides. Every defect in State government policy or administration is excused by reference to lack of Commonwealth finance. Failures of accommodation, staffing and facilities in the State education system, even where sound planning and policy is palpably absent, are excused on financial grounds. The blame for the inbuilt inequalities in the State education system, brought about by the purchase of facilities and equipment on the iniquitous subsidy system which forces parents to pay heavily and means that areas of greatest need are those least able to obtain these extras, is placed on a parsimonious Federal Government, and perhaps with partial justification. This stands, even when exorbitant prices for school sites and expensive building contracts are revealed and subsidies to privileged private schools to the detriment of Government schools are realised. 
States abrogate their initiative in tertian' education by saying that the Australian Universities Commission dictates the terms of development and maintenance of tertiary institutions. It recently appeared to dictate a great increase in university fees and yet fees, from the point of view of government, are a negligible contribution to university finances. Bold thought is confined to the election platform and bold action is never seen, yet thousands of young people qualified for entry to tertiary institutions are turned away. 
In the hospital field, for example, Victoria's hospitals have accumulated deficits of SI Om. This is blamed on Commonwealth activity or inactivity in the health field. I have no confidence that a slavish adherence to the voluntary health insurance system is going to provide any solution, yet onethird of that State's deficit is from workers compensation and motor accidents - in other words, insurance cases where simple legislation by the States requiring forward funding by insurance companies would easily solve this without major economic upset. So. on the State side we have the loud plaints of such governments, particularly at election time, against the Commonwealth. As I have said, the Commonwealth is not without guilt. Too little account is taken of the needs of the community in the face of the Commonwealth's overall control of revenue. Tied grants by the Commonwealth to the States are not necessarily bad things, but they must be applied in a way which will lead to effective forward development in various fields. At the moment they are not necessarily being applied in this way. 
In the social welfare field we see a hodge-podge produced for pensioners. Certainly the aged receive their age pensions, but of a kind bearing no relation to needs. States are forced to cover the greater part of the cost of pensioners' hospital treatment. Transport concessions, which would not be necessary if pensions were adequate, are supplied by the States. Low rental housing is a further strain; and so one could go on. There appears to be no combined Commonwealth and State examination of needs in so many areas where provision of facilities is necessary. If so, why was the report of the University of Melbourne's Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research of an incidence of poverty of nearly 20% in our community received with such amazement? The Victorian Government, in fact, appointed a committee from among its parliamentary parties' backbench members to investigate this matter of poverty. Its findings must have been so alarming that they have been clouded in a shroud of deepest secrecy ever since they were concluded. 
It is fair for State governments to point out that the rate of increase in their tax reimbursement grants is so much less than the rate of increase in Commonwealth tax collections. For Victoria in 1969-70 the increase in the tax reimbursement grant was only 81% on the previous year's figures yet the predicted increase in Commonwealth tax collections was 171%. Nor is it surprising that States resent that the payments which they have to make to bear interest and service charges on their debts is not taken into account when payments are made by the Commonwealth under the formula. Such payments for Victoria in 1969-70 were $154.5m. These included some reduction not only on the interest payments but on Victoria's public debt, including liabilities to the Commonwealth. But enough of the need for an enlightened attitude in Commonwealth and State financial relationships. 
There is a deeper, more far-reaching view to be taken of relations between Commonwealth and State Governments. It will be realised that State governments are essentially governments of provision whose essential role is to provide physical assets in the way of schools, roads, transport and so on. Since the adoption of uniform taxation, at any rate, the Commonwealth Government is not only a government of provision but very much one of finance and decision. Its actions in the financial field determine the economics of the community in every field. Its decision making powers in so many fields of policy, upheld by its financial powers, determine Australia's development in a way in which no State government can affect or, indeed, could effect. Yet this parliamentary division of functions and responsibility resides in a distribution of constitutional powers arrived at in the 1890s when no-one would be expected to have envisaged the development of Australia, the change in social and economic attitudes in our community and indeed throughout the world, the massive advances in technology that have produced these changed attitudes and the alterations that have occurred in the distribution of personal wealth and power. Thomas Jefferson is often quoted in discussions on the evolution of constitutions. He said: 
In questions of power, let no more be beard of confidence in man, but bind him down from mischief by the chains of the constitution. 
And bound down by the Constitution both State and Federal Parliaments have been. I do not deny the very real protection the Constitution has given individuals and groups, but it is a horse and buggy constitution for a space ship age. There is no more fascinating story than the development of our Australian Constitution and the great struggles and the conventions which were held in developing it. Through the story there runs the foresight of some, the conservatism of others, the attitudes of the capitalists of the day who had reached the height of their power and the slow gropings of the developing Labor movement which was then achieving the militancy and unity it needed for nationalism and its concept of democracy. Eventually it was the propertied gentlemen who decided the main principles of our Constitution, taking what was best from the States and giving it to the Federal Government and leaving a suitable environment for themselves in the State field. But as 1 have mentioned, although the Constitution does reflect the attitudes of that time, times have changed considerably. Even the lower portion of our system of government - local government - now needs greater consideration. It is this form of government which feels most heavily the burden of our present system. This evening the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke about this need and of the provision of normal municipal services. Increased welfare services are also being forced on local government by subsidy in the way of baby health centres, elderly citizens' clubs, creches and so on. Its source of revenue is rates on properties which takes no note of the ability of the citizen to pay and so may bear heavily and unfairly on individuals. 
What can we do about it? Do we leave this unsatisfactory situation as the apologia at all levels for defects in government performance or do we show the same drive and imagination that led the fathers of our Constitution to hold their great, and for those days representative, conventions, to find common grounds for the alterations that are needed? Even the State-righters should be interested in this for it is obvious that only a bold approach can lead to the solution of their problems. I do not accept the fears expressed of centralism for I feel that central government is not to be confused with central bureaucracy, lt is certain that smaller units are needed for regional administration and even to some extent local policy formulation in a way that even the States cannot offer. Should we not look at where the power of government and its delegation should reside and what rules should govern its delegation? The States realise that even they as they are at present defined cannot effectively do this. The States are moving more and more to regionalisation of services such as health and education. 
Tasmania is the only State with a natural boundary. The boundaries of the other States are largely political accidents. No natura] regions such as the Riverina, which is divided by the New South Wales and Victorian borders, exist. This from time to time gives rumblings for a new State, but it is only a rumbling. No action is ever taken, and action is needed to overcome the difficulties. After 8 years of frustration of serving in a State Parliament with all the practical restrictions for effective action that abound there and the difficulty in progressive planning, I am convinced that State governments are becoming more and more the complete lackeys of the Commonwealth and that some form of the centralist view would be the best form of government we could have. 1 realise full well that many will disagree with me, but I challenge them to say that they are satisfied with the present situation. I challenge them to join in the demand for a re-examination of the constitutional structure and the presentation of proposals to the Australian people to alter it. Even in my centralist view there is a role for the States or a smaller equivalent type of regional unit to play, but shorn  of  its expensive trappings and high membership, with clearly defined administrative and governing roles laid down on principles in keeping with present day' demands. My question is: Who will take the initiative in pursuing this vast problem? Surely that initiative should reside in this Parliament. 
The other matter to which I want to refer to briefly is pollution which the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  mentioned in his maiden speech tonight. Various aspects of the GovernorGeneral's Speech lead us to a consideration of the degradation and pollution of our environment. References dealing with dam construction, eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis in cattle; forestry development, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's proposed nuclear power station, research into wild life and marine science are all relevant to the degradation of our environment.  President  Nixon in a recent State of the Union message said: 
The great question of the 70s is: Shall we surrender to our surroundings or shall we make our peace with nature and begin to make reparations for the damage we have done to our air, to our land and to our water? 
He might also have added every animate thing to these inaminate factors. 
To put it on the most material basis, man for all bis brain, his form and so on can be reduced in scientific terms to a series of chemical reactions. Some of these chemical reactions can be reproduced in the test tube, but others as yet cannot. From time to time great concern is expressed as to what will happen in the test tube. What chemist would expect the chemical reactions that he desired to produce under laboratory conditions to proceed in a normal way in the presence of impurities? Yet these are the very conditions under which we expect the chemical reactions of human beings and other animals to proceed. We degrade, pollute and ravage our environment in every way imaginable. Our society is being called the 'effluent society'. 1 hope I will have time to illustrate how apt that description is. 
The chemical armamentarium we use in food production and preservation, in the extermination of pests, in the treatment of disease not only due to bacterial or other parasites but due to degenerative diseases, all lead to further contamination. Massive physical projects take their toll. Certain irrigation projects which in the short term produce beneficial results may in the long term with constant leaching of salts and their re-deposition abolish the productivity of the areas concerned. We are all familiar with the problem of dust-bowl conditions in grossly defoliated areas. In fact conservationists who deplore the destruction of large amounts and numbers of flora and fauna are indeed referring to a portion of our environmental degradation. In the publication 'Science USA' the author Gilman points out that scientific research and development in 1965 took one-sixth of the United States Budget. This involved in excess of SUS15 billion. From other sources I have ascertained that only $US57m of this was devoted to research in pollution control. 
Just as the picture in America is one of complete ravaging of the environment due to industry so it is with other industrialised nations. Even the smaller areas are concerned. About 18 months ago in Suva, Fiji, the local Press spoke about the new cement works there and the emissions of smoke which were causing pollution and about which they were concerned. We can assume that in Australia we are at the stage where we can do something about it. One might feel, if one thinks of the smog in places such as Los Angeles, Detroit and 
New York, that there is no hope of it happening here. Yet the number of motor vehicles in Australia has increased more than one and a half times in the last decade. In petrol use per capita we are out-ranked only by the United States of America and Canada. In 1967 we burnt 1,820 million gallons of petrol. Can we be sure that there are not densely populated areas which possess the physical and geographical features that will cause the inversion and the photochemical reaction that produces the irritant and toxic substances from such fumes? 
In Victoria, the State inefficiently runs a Clean Air Division. It is very proud of the fact that it has never launched a prosecution through that Division and in fact today the number of complaints its receives is onetwentieth of what they received 10 years ago. It is very true that people can complain and nothing happens. There have been factories in my electorate which pollute the environment. Promises are made that the situation will be remedied but the result is stained and damaged laundry and corroded duco and metal on cars and houses. People have complained of smarting eyes, running noses and respiratory infection. This is the way we ravage the environment with pollution. Gauges in the city of Preston, for example, show that 9 to 10 tons of dust per square mile per month are deposited over areas of the city. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  would be aware that in the Herne Hill area something like 70 tons of dust per square mile per month is deposited. This figure has been revealed by dust gauges. But the evidence of pollution does not stop there. This week in the House we heard comments about sewage in Sydney Harbour. It is not so long ago that it was proposed to dump great amounts of Melbourne's sewage into Port Phillip Bay. In this case the sewage was not important but the detergent and chemical content was because this would have damaged all the flora and fauna of the Bay with great degradation to the uses of that area for man. 
I am not able to completely cover this problem. I have tried to respect the customs and usages of this House under which the House hears an honourable member's maiden speech in silence. There are many matters of a much more partisan and possibly more controversial nature which could be raised. But I believe this Government just has not applied itself to these matters I have discussed in the urgent way needed. There is an urgent and pressing need for notice to be taken of parliamentary structure and of the prevention of environmental degradation. I trust I have raised matters of sufficient substance concerning them to engage the future attention of the House. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Services. Is there a chair of gerontology in any Australian university or is there any effective organisation for the overall study of the problem of the aged? Has he or his Department given any consideration to this matter? Has he consulted with his colleagues, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Education and Science, with regard to it so that this 8% or more of the population may receive social services based on an informed approach to their needs? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I have no desire to delay the passage of these Bills but having been a medical practitioner and parliamentarian for some years I feel that there are certain matters which require comment and which probably apply to both of these Bills. In themselves, they do appear to correct an anomaly which concerns many honourable members. However, unlike the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  I despair at the discretion which exists in this proposition that the single pension will be paid to each partner where they are unable to live together through illness or infirmity and so lose the economics of that state and where the inability is likely to continue indefinitely, and I despair too at the very narrowness of the subject matter. 
One would think that the pension is a generous allowance rather than for many a bare survival allowance below the poverty line. For many couples, a short stay in hospital for one of them can upset the financial balance. I realise that in any public hospital pensioners are treated free. However one partner in that hospital increases expenses. The small amenities that a hos pital patient needs, the extra cost of fares for hospital visits, the added costs of food, particularly if it is the male partner left at home to fend for himself, upset the economic balance. I believe that with this term ^definitely' we are making it too much for the couple to bear. I believe that this extra allowance should be paid for all but the briefest stay in hospital, if it is to have any meaningful use for the pensioner couple. 
I come now to an intermediate group of people who may be' affected by this term indefinitely'. There are a large number of conditions, some degenerative in their nature such as coronary occlusions, cerebrp vascular accident, trauma resulting in fractured limbs, head injuries or surgical conditions, where one can be. pretty sure that the patient will require 3 months or 4 months hospitalisation. Or, there may be complications following on surgical procedures or medical conditions which may lead to a hospital stay of this length. This certainly does not fulfil the requirements of indefinitely', yet it completely shatters the finely balanced economics of the pensioner couple. Is this amendment to the Act so generous when we consider these circumstances? 
The statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech prior to the last election, as adverted to by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  was: 
We shall pay pensions at standard rates or at married rates to aged couples who lose the economics of living together by reason of failing health - for example, if one or both of them is in a nursing home. 
In other words, it should apply to loss of the economics of living together. This may occur and does occur at an earlier stage than what I would feel the plain and ordinary meaning of the word 'indefinitely' conveys. Is the Government merely correcting an anomaly as to matter of degree and leaving a large part of the problem still festering? Surely once the requirement of loss of economics of living together is satisfied, any discretion should only be exercised as to the time such method of payment continues, if and when the loss of economics of living together no longer applies. Surely this would allow this underprivileged group in our community some sort of help. 
Then, there is the final group which is covered by both criteria. I refer to the loss of economics of living together and such loss being likely to continue indefinitely. Is this situation going to be so clear cut? One can consider analogies in other fields which raise one's doubts as to whether this is so. One of these analogies in the past has been in the field of hospital benefits. Many elderly people unable to retain a bed in an acute or public hospital must be accommodated in an approved nursing home and many, for this reason, have held hospital insurance. The benefits here were paid only in special cases where the treatment provided was equivalent to hospital treatment. Now, the discretion here as to whether the service was equivalent to hospital treatment was at the discretion of the Commonwealth Director-General of Health, just as the interpretation of the word 'indefinitely' will be at the discretion of the Commonwealth Director-General of Social Services and, in the same way, there is little hope of reversal or appeal. 
One elderly couple, who are constituents of mine, will give rise to a claim under this legislation, although they will still be embarrassed by nursing home charges. A geriatrician of Greenvale Village, where the wife was an inpatient, stated that she was suffering from a severe left, hemiplegia and was in need of further treatment. But because of a severe bed shortage this woman was discharged to a private hospital where equivalent hospital treatment could be given. However, despite this statement of a highly qualified specialist geriatrician, the private hospital was considered an approved nursing home and .referral of the claim by the hospital benefits association to the Commonwealth Director of Health led to the determination that she was not entitled to receive the benefit. So, here we have a conflict of opinion between a competent geriatrician and an officer of the Commonwealth Department of Health. May we not get the same situation with this social services legislation as far as the word 'indefinitely' is concerned? It seems to me that the situation could arise where a patient's medical adviser may believe that the aged person should be retained in hospital indefinitely while, in the view of the Department, the aged person is fit to live with his or her partner in the matrimonial home. 
The case that I have cited has meant depletion of the savings of the couple concerned in meeting heavy hospital fees far in excess of S60 per week. The payment of the single rate of pension will not make much difference to their case although I am happy to say, as mentioned by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  that the Department of Social Services is considering exercising its discretion in this case with regard to the rate of pension even before this legislation is passed. The honourable member for Oxley pointed out the amount which such an aged couple would receive under the circumstances and how it would not cover such hospital, expenses. He quoted the figures from  Mrs Coleman  for the Alexander Hospital. I think that the Minister was mistaken here.  Mrs Coleman  would be referring to Alexander Hospital at Castlemaine where the patients certainly in the majority are not intensive care patients but where the grading ranges from ambulatory patients up to intensive care patients throughout that institution. So, I think a valid point exists in the claim by the honourable member for Oxley that the amount is $9 per day, if I am correct in my assumption on the institution. 
I am concerned at the narrow field to which this legislation has been restricted. I believe that it touches one end of the problem only. It raises many doubts in my mind as to its efficacy. It shows a glimmer of knowledge of the problems that face pensioner couples. It serves to highlight other problems that exist. Only when we relate such social services to the real needs of individuals in terms of the dignity, self respect and values that they deserve in their lives can we be satisfied. 
Earlier, I asked a question with regard to the establishment of a chair of gerontology in Australia. I believe that the work that would be carried out in this sort of area might well have given much more informed opinion of the circumstances that surround this amendment to our social services legislation. 
While the Minister claims that this is a further step in the Government's concerted, programme of assisting those with special needs, I see it as no more than lip service to such a problem, serving only as an escape for the Government to reassure those of its supporters who are clear headed enough to see this as an anomaly and, in fact, letting the Government get away with as little as the traffic can bear. 
If we have compassion for the aged person and the invalid; if we indeed believe that in the aged state there are problems that they may neglect themselves as far as nutrition is concerned or that appropriate meals may not be available to them; if we believe that the desirable place for them to spend as much of their later years as possible is to be in their home, then of course we cannot oppose this legislation, lt is indeed some sort of step to meeting these problems. However, I believe that my colleague, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  have shown quite clearly that this is rather a patchy approach to those problems of the aged. If Meals on Wheels and other such organisations are to be effective we need to have an assessment of the total problem of aged people. We have to try to assess how far the basic services of Meals on Wheels, pensions, housing, health and welfare services are specifically designed and effectively directed towards meeting the needs of old people. We have to find out how far any special services such as Meals on Wheels, within the structure, meet those needs and how many others are needed generally or separately. Along with this consideration, we have to look at the general attitudes to the situations and problems of the aged in a modern society. 
What concern is shown nationally and locally about the conditions in which elderly people are living, particularly the very old, the infirm and the isolated? What is known about this situation in general and individual terms? What attempt is being made to identify where the need is most urgent and the most effective way of giving help to these people in the community? What is the priority of these welfare steps? Is Meals on Wheels a top priority? Where is it relative to the needs of our aged people in the community? How many of our welfare services are adequate and, indeed, how many are grossly inadequate?  Sir, the  Meals on Wheels scheme provides an excellent service in many areas but, as has been pointed out, there are large areas which receive no such service at all. 
The honourable member for Barton, in quoting the British report, pointed out that areas of most need may be those not receiving the service. I suggest to honourable members that there has been no overall look at this problem in Australia, in any of the States, to effectively find out where Meals on Wheels is most needed and how this service can be best organised. Other countries have tackled this problem much earlier than we have. We have heard about the British report. In France there was the La Rocque Committee in 1962. As early as 1957, Norway instituted an institute of geriatric research to cover these broad problems and to look into what is needed. Canada had a Senate select committee looking into the problems of welfare services for the aged. I suggest that more of this is needed. 
There is too much reliance on charitable organisations in setting up such services. These are well intentioned and hard working individuals with true compassion for their other members in the community, but they are being used as an excuse in the community through its Government to dodge responsibility. This means in fact that many individuals in the community do not receive the benefit of these organisations. The subsidy system in itself is inequitable. It is inequitable because the costs in varying areas are different; there are varying demands in varying population groups; there is a varying effectiveness in reaching the people. One would consider that probably in a closely-settled suburban area there would be a better prospect of providing this service cheaply and more effectively than in some of the far flung areas. 
Mention was made by the previous  speaker  of the use of this money for consolidation of this service. It is my belief that this subsidy will act mainly to assist the existing organisations to keep going. There is a lack of regionalisation of services in this that wilt not allow economy of the facilities for the production and delivery of meals. I think we cannot afford to overlook the role of local government in this sphere. So many of the Meals on Wheels services are based on organisations set tip by local government. Indeed, if we look at the suggestions of many of these overseas groups it is this sort of localisation through using existing bodies to supervise the scheme that is recommended. They recommend that there should be a look at how we can develop it throughout areas. It is also recommended that if this scheme is to develop properly the problems of the aged cannot be looked at just as meals on wheels but indeed there is a very urgent requirement for social workers out in the field on a face to face basis looking at the needs of these people so that they can be properly organised. 
The over 65 age group in the community at the moment represents 8i% of our population. So there are considerably more who require this type of service when one considers invalids and the group of women who would be included in this between the age of 60 and 65. It is no use looking at just these spots of care. These people need an attitude of total care and attention to their problems. Meals on Wheels is simply a section of domiciliary care. 
Mention was made of a comprehensive service from the Royal Newcastle Hospital. This is one service that has been going on for many years, while other hospitals throughout the Commonwealth are just groping to provide this sort of service. Some tocal government bodies are groping to give the same sort of service. But we have Meals on Wheels dependent on some sort of charitable or religious organisation. We have home nursing dependent on the 
Royal Melbourne District Nursing Society in Melbourne or its equivalent body elsewhere. For home help we have the local municipality organising the service. If physical alterations to the home are needed so that the person will1 be able to live in it, some voluntary charitable or service organisation will probably be required to do the job. Therapists may be obtained from the local hospital. What chance is there of any total or comprehensive care in this situation? 
The problem can be met in many ways. One of the most interesting concepts is the Danish concept. The Danes take as the basis good hospital wards and they are supported by numerous flats and hostels, with an interchange between the flats and hostels and the hospital wards as is required. The meals are prepared in a central kitchen and distributed to a person either at home or in hospital. By having this grading of care, the problems of the aged are dealt with totally. This is very much in line with the British experience of a regional organisation giving overall care to the aged. The emphasis must be on finding an area of workable size, and a population of workable size to give effective care, with Meals on Wheels and all the other associated matters that go with it. A subsidy per meal will not achieve this type of total care, lt only touches on the problem. 
If we examine how a Meals on Wheels organisation is set up, we can see the problem and the patchwork that goes into the organisation. Let us take the City of Preston, which comprises the principal part of my electorate. The local council, with an enlightened outlook on social welfare, was already providing home help services and many other welfare services. Several years ago it decided that Meals on Wheels should be provided for our elderly citizens. However the finance for welfare services was already overstrained and the council had to look for a local charitable organisation to raise the money that was needed to meet the capital cost of the scheme. It so happened that one of the service organisations with which I was associated raised the money and the Meals on Wheels scheme was started. But there was no effective Government assistance in setting up the scheme. 
The Meals on Wheels service here requires a central kitchen with facilities for the preparation of the meal, an adjoining dining room for service of the meals and facilities for delivery in two different categories. They are delivery to outlying elderly citizens clubs, which according to the Minister will be covered by the Bill, and delivery to homes. But what of the dining room next to the central kitchen? Are we to assume that this is part of the delivery meals service? Will those meals be subsidised? I think it would be ridiculous if they were not, because it is desirable to have this organisation in a local area. In his second reading speech the Minister mentioned the beneficial effect to elderly or invalid people when the meal is delivered to the home. They have personal contact with whoever is delivering the meal. But more is needed than that. If these meals can be provided at centres where the aged and invalid gather to have them, there is as much value in the companionship that is obtained there as in the meal itself. That is why 1 believe we should ensure that we do not restrict this subsidy to home deliveries or the occasional outlying area. The companionship that comes with the meal needs to be promoted. 
Another matter that concerns me is the general principle that seems to arise with much of this type of legislation. Perhaps this aspect may be more appropriate for the Committee stage, but I think I could mention it now in passing. Clause 9 gives power to the Director-General to pay moneys upon such terms and conditions, including conditions as to the conduct by the organisation of approved meal services, the use of those moneys and the keeping of accounts by the organisation, as he considers conducive to the purpose of the Act. I believe that Parliament is the body that should spell out the conditions under which this is done. We have the responsibility to say what should be done. In handing over such powers to individuals outside the Parliament, we are making a grave mistake. Far too much of this is going on. not only at the Federal level but also at the State level. We are a regulation ridden community. The Parliament is responsible for the legislation and is responsible to see that individuals get a go in the community, but governments have handed over too many powers to people outside the Parliament and outside the Government. 
In general, many people in the community will welcome the assistance that they will receive from this subsidy for Meals on Wheels. I know that many people in my electorate alone appreciate this type of service. Probably many of them have had their lives lengthened by the service. But I take no satisfaction from the fact that, while so many in my area are privileged, many, people in other areas receive no such service. Unless we are prepared to take a good, solid look at the total problems of the aged, the total care and the total services that are needed, many people will be doomed to a most unsatisfactory existence in their closing years. 
Is the Minister for Health able to say how many major Australian public hospitals have intensive care units and resuscitation units with the latest monitoring and resuscitation equipment? If so, from his experience and the facts he should know, how does this compare with other similar hospitals in the other major 
Western countries? If these facts are not known to him, in view of the increasing financial cost and responsibility faced by the Commonwealth in our hospital systems, ] ask on what does he base his statement that our hospitals are as good as those in other major Western countries. 
 I cannot join the rather dewy-eyed optimism or admiration of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  for this Bill. I must admit he left me speechless with his modesty with regard to his breadth of appreciation of relevant health services. I find it rather difficult to address myself to this Bill for 2 reasons. The first is the very breadth of the subject matter which has been opened up and the second is my complete contempt for the theory of payment, the theory of revision of medical and health services contained in this Bill. To me it heaps inequality on inequality, iniquity on iniquity. It is a complete fraud. It arises out of an investigation by a committee that was restricted in its terms to examine only voluntary health insurance. That committee did a good job within those terms but there are many other aspects of financing health services that should have been considered. Was the Government frightened when laying down the terms of reference that it would find its wailing over many years that this was the best type of health service was completely false, and was shown to be by a committee which it appointed? Of course it was. 
Today we have been led to the first bed of a rather didactic clinical wardroom. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  figuratively dressed in the flowing robes of a Ph.D., gave a preliminary oration earlier and today we have dissected the whys and wherefors of the Government's and medical profession's responsibilities for financing. But while we have gathered around the bed and drawn back the sheet from the patient, he has been left there shivering except when the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  spoke of the quality of patient care and massaged some life back into him. What is this patient concerned about in the provision of health services? Firstly he wants the best quality of medical care. Secondly he does not want the overwhelming cost of such care to threaten the whole economic basis of his life and his family's life. What guarantee has he of the quality of medical care? What steps have Federal and State governments taken to ensure this quality? They provide the majority of beds available in hospitals foi the patients. They even subsidise private hospitals extensively, not only through the fees paid but through various other arrangements that are made. For example, in Victoria the interest rate on a loan for the construction of a private hospital was greatly reduced and guaranteed by a government. Admittedly it was not this Government but we cannot divorce the State Government from the Federal Government in the hospital held. 
Governments also in their own way determine the nature of the government of hospitals, how they are run and the composition of their boards of management. But of quality they require none, relying only on actions in tort for negligence or actions in criminal law for even worse to apply the necessary sanctions to encourage the practitioner to maintain his standard of care. The only other check is the knowledge of admitting officers and medical superintendents at these hospitals. Doctors notorious for cavalier or inefficient patient treatment find that when they telephone for a bed all beds are full. We have heard about bed availability and we have had comparisons made with the hospitals of Great Britain. But let us look at the situation of those unfortunates who have to use public hospitals - I am not saying they are unfortunate in the quality of care they receive because often here they receive the best care - and are waiting for elective surgery. I invite the Minister to check with some of the hospitals in which he should show an interest and find out just what these waiting periods are for hernias and such like, for the stabilisation of diabetics and other medical conditions. He will get a surprise. It is all right if a patient can pay to enter a private hospital. He can get a bed there provided he can pay. 
What responsibility does the medical profession accept in quality control? Surely it cannot be said that this type of health Bill is just a measure for financing where the agreement is primarily between the Government and the patient. Each trained doctor, even if he has paid his own fees at university, has been heavily subsidised by the Commonwealth and State governments. The cost of his subsidy during training is somewhere between $6,000 to $8,000. He does his further hospital training in hospitals which were expensive in capital outlay for buildings and equipment paid for by governments which also subsidise the maintenance and staffing. What is more, he is paid. This provision is made for him by governments. The profession does not supply it. When he goes into practice the financial basis of his practice will be repatriation and pensioner medical scheme patients. These are the fairly constant recurring factors in his income and they provide the basic bread and butter for him and his family. He will use hospital facilities provided by the Government and expensive equipment provided by the Government, to earn his income. 
The community hospital in my electorate has 323 beds. At least 60% of those are for private and intermediate patients. The facilities there are paid for by the Government for doctors to obtain their income. So the doctor has certainly a great responsibility for the quality of medical care. I suggested that payments for repatriation and pensioner medical scheme patients are important but it seems that patients who are covered in these 2 categories are the only responsible patients we have because those payments require no contribution from the patient at all. Under this scheme all other patients are irresponsible. They must pay the margin between the rebate and the actual fee charged. They are irresponsible. They are out of the group. Once these people reach 65 years of age and become pensioners, they also become responsible patients instead of receiving the same privileges that repatriation and pensioner patients rightly receive. 
The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  spoke on some of the quality control measures that doctors can use. As he pointed out, these measures were used particularly in the Kaiser Prepaid Health Scheme. I point out that not only is quality control imposed in that instance but also that this pre-paid scheme, which I had the pleasure of seeing in operation some 18 months ago, supplies medical and surgical treatment and also hospitals and training for nurses. In addition, it provides for research and all the other factors that make a complete health service. This is something that this Bill does not propose although it is called a National Health Bill. 
There are many other services like this one. T mention as an example the Windsor Medical Service. That is a pre-paid scheme whereby doctors contract and are subject to very severe discipline by their peers - that is, by their fellows - with regard to their rates of visiting, quality of service and so on. This scheme is so well respected that it is endorsed by the Essex and Kent County Medical Societies, by the Ontario Medical Association, chartered by the Canadian Government, and so on and so on. These are the sorts of comprehensive schemes that can cover so many factors. 
What is this quality control that is needed? I suggest that the medical profession has to accept, criticism in this field for its lack of activity, lt is only recently, because of the discussions that have arisen out of this Bill and because of the pressures of hospital administrators who are unhappy with the standard of care in their hospitals, that the accreditation of hospitals is starting to be talked about. This is accreditation of hospitals on the basis of buildings, facilities and the equipment that is applied there. 
This accreditation of hospitals would be done also on the basis of the competency of the medical practitioners working there, lt would be done not by a big brother committee but by members of the medical profession themselves. They would conduct medical and surgical audits of the performances of doctors. For example, a pain in the chest may indicate a coronary occlusion. They would determine how many cases involving pains in the chest Doctor X had admitted as coronary occlusion cases and in how many of those cases his diagnosis was accurate. This quality control is important for the major reason of proper patient treatment. Proper patient treatment in these cases requires intensive care units. Such units are highly expensive to operate and so will reflect on the costs of services. Surgical audits assess the ability to diagnose and to perform an operation properly. Tissue committees can confirm this. 
I regret that the Minister for Health has no knowledge of this type of procedure although it is now pretty common knowledge amongst hospital administrators and doctors. A simple question related to this matter has been on the notice paper since 19th March. Simple and all as it is, and with his wide discussions on these matters, the Minister for Health is unable to answer that question. What it leads up to then is a delineation of privileges of the individual practitioner and the privileges that should be extended to him in the hospital.  His  primary degree in medicine and surgery should allow him a limited number of procedures, in which most general practitioners can be skillful if they apply themselves - the ordinary appendectomy and so on - but this work must be subject to quality control, lt is of no good his ripping out 10 appendixes quite successfully and having the patients go home but when the tissue committee has a look at them finding that only I of the 10 shows any pathology at all. The patients will receive a rebate on this. They will have occupied hospital beds unnecessarily and have been subjected to an unnecessary operation with the attendant risks that apply to any operation. And so these privileges are gained by constant training of the doctor - the doctor who wishes to apply himself to the use of new techniques and new procedures and who becomes well trained and improves the quality and skill of his work. If this is so, what argument is there for differential rebates? Surely the rebate is for service skilfully performed. 
Differential rebates merely serve to suggest to the community that there are 2 standards of medical care - the first rate and the second rate. The real speciality procedures would be carried out by specialists. If it is neuro-surgery, obviously a general practitioner would not try this procedure; the neuro-surgeon would do it. The speciality procedures clearly define themselves. But if a general practitioner is skilful enough to do the routine operation, as is the specialist, why should there be differential rebates? After all, if the specialist is so skilful he is probably able to do 3 appendix operations and rip out a pair of tonsils for an encore in an hour while the general practioner is doing 2 appendix operations. It seems to me that we are forgetting the quality of medical care for the patient as being the criterion by which the medical practitioner is paid. We are taking too much notice of university degrees as the measuring stick for this. I have a degree in medicine and I admit that after a number of years in a State Parliament and now here I feel thai I am obsolescent for expert procedures. I am not ashamed of that. I have applied myself most faithfully to parliamentary duties. If a man does this he is unable to keep up with the techniques of advancing medicine - not the knowledge . of medicine, new procedures and the organisation of medicine but the actual techniques. This is why I come down hard on this matter of accreditation, audits and delineation of privileges as a way to ensure quality control of medical service and to allow this rather vexed question of differential rates to be got out of the way. 
What we have is really not voluntary health insurance. How can it be voluntary health insurance when there is such a large government contribution to make it viable? We hear that if our scheme for health services, paid for by a compulsory type insurance scheme, was instituted the payment by the Government would destroy the doctor-patient relationship. What a lot of nonsense that is! What a myth this is! I shall quote from an address given by Pro fessor Griffith, who is Professor of Hospital Administration at the University of New South Wales, to the Tenth Australian Area Conference of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in April of last year. I think he made a rather good comment on this financial relationship between the doctor and patient. He said: When not protesting about the possible loss nf professional freedom the less well informed members of the profession, and this seems to be a majority, protest that the present direct doctorpatient financial relationship is hallowed by centuries, if not millennia of sacred tradition. 
Debate interrupted. 
I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  for the courtesy extended by him and other honourable members. Before the motion was put I was quoting the words of Professor Griffith, who said: 
When not protesting about the possible loss of professional freedom the less well informed members of the profession, and this seems to be a majority, protest that the present director doctorpatient financial relationship is hallowed by centuries if not millennia of sacred tradition. If this were not a parliamentary occasion, 1 would be tempted to reply to them with an unparliamentary  5-letler word because their claim is undoubtedly all balderdash. For centuries, from the most ancient times, many doctors whether 'medical men or medicine men', to use that wonderful distinction for which we are indebted to Professor Trendall, have been accustomed to receive payments from third parties for the treatment rendered to patients. In Greece it was from the community; in Rome from the army; in medieval rimes from the feudal lord, lt is only since the times of the Mercantilists that a majority of doctors like other traders have started to demand payments on the nail for goods provided over the counter.  1 think there is a great deal of substance in those words. We should dismiss some of our fears and point out to the people the true position. They should not be carried away by a proposition that a sacred right is threatened. I have here a pamphlet circulated by general practitioners that suggests that where the family doctor could not be paid he received bunches of flowers, baskets of fruit, and onions and potatoes instead of the fee. I must admit that I was never offered such goods in replacement of the fee. but I often received gifts in addition to the fee in gratitude for the treatment that a family doctor can give. This pamphlet uses an emotional method of criticising the scheme. The approach is purely subjective. We say that we have the best hospitals in the world and the best general practitioners in the world. But what criteria are used to make those judgments? They are purely subjective impressions, formed without the use of any criteria. 1 have the highest respect for my fellow members of the medical profession, but there are some who do not attain high standards. Under out present terms they are able to operate in just the same way as their more talented fellow practitioners. It is about time we put a stop to this. 1 remind the House that under Lloyd George there was a pretty substantial voluntary health insurance scheme in Great Britain between about 1911 and 1948. A royal commission on national health insurance in 1926 had this to say: 
. the difficulties of a composite support to a complete medical service from insurance funds  . . would be so considerable alike in their financial administrative and social aspects, that some more practical solution must be sought. In particular we feel sure that the wider the scope of these services the more difficult will it be to retain the insurance principle. The ultimate solution will be ... in the direction of divorcing the medical service from the insurance system and recognising it, along with other public health activities, as a service to be supported from the general public funds. 
As long ago as 1926 voluntary health insurance was given that type of critique. There are only 4 ways of financing health services. Firstly, there is across the counter dealing by direct payment. 1 do not think that the medical profession or the patients would agree to that one. Then there is the hire purchase system that applies to so many other things. In other words: Have your illness now. pay later. That does not work either. Then there is voluntary health insurance, with all the defects that my colleagues have pointed out,- with all the inequities and with the cost bearing mostly on the lower income earner instead of being on a graded scale. Then there is compulsory health insurance. Honourable members can call it by whatever term they like. Under a compulsory health insurance scheme the moneys would come, as we have suggested, from a social security levy on taxable income or, as others have suggested from time to time, from the public purse. In this way we can have a partnership between the patient, the Government and the medical practitioner. 
The sort of thing that is being forced through under the present voluntary health insurance scheme is shown in the reports of last year's annual meeting of the Hospital Benefits Association, lt had 773,716 contributors at that stage. The contributors are the life blood of the voluntary health insurance organisation. How many representatives did they have in the controlling body of this organisation? Out of a possible 52 members of the board controlling it they had 4 representatives. Three quarters of a million contributors had 4 out of a possible 52 representatives. What is more, the executive of the organisation is elected before the annual meeting of contributors, so they are cut out of the voting. Worse than that, no alteration shall be made in the articles governing this organisation without the consent in writing of the Lord Mayors' Metropolitan Hospital and Charities Fund and of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association. The contributors are the ones who keep that association going. They are the ones who are paying the executive. They are the ones who are giving it a reason for existing and who are helping it to exist. They are allowed 4 representatives out of 52, but any alteration to ease this situation may be put into effect only with the permission of the Lord Mayor's fund for charity or the Victorian Branch of the AMA. 
At the meeting at which the contributors' representatives were elected there were 51 voters remaining when the final vote was taken. But 17 of that 51 were senior staff members of the Hospital Benefits Association. This is the situation in which the voluntary health insurance organisations have been put under the present scheme. This Bill does not alter that; as I say, it keeps these iniquitous and inequitable matters going on. The present system means waste. It involves no suggestion of checking the quality of service by the doctors. Under it there is no attempt to keep down costs. 
If I had time I could also cite from this document the amount of money used by the voluntary health insurance funds in straight out political manoeuvring. They say that they reserve the right to answer unfair criticism or to correct misunderstandings of the present system of health insurance. That is their let out for opposing any scheme that does not envisage their continuing. I regret that I cannot have more to say on that matter. We look at their administrative costs and find that they range up to about 15% of contributions, whereas Windsor Medical Services lnc. in Canada has an administrative expense of 5.5 cents out of each $1. Although it has been said that general practice is dying off, we find from the document that office, home, night and hospital calls by medical practitioners cause an expenditure of 44.3 cents per $1. 
In rounding off I would say that it is pretty obvious that I reject materially the principles and ideas behind this Bill. We have said that we would not oppose it because there may be some benefit from it for the lower income group. However, 1 have grave doubts about this. I hope that I have indicated that there is a responsibility of government, of the medical profession, and of patients to be considered in what sort of care is given to the community. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jess)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. It refers to his rather interesting Press statement on Sth May on oral contraceptives and their relation to thromboembolism. The Minister in reporting the recommendation of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee stated: 
However, the use of lower dosage formulations was advisable unless there were specific indications for an oestrogen dosage of one hundred micrograms or more. Women should look to their own doctors for advice on this matter. 
Doctors are concerned about the sort of advice they should give. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "21a. Section 53 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1.) the words 'Eighty cents' and inserting in their stead the words 'Two dollars'.". 
Clause 21 of the Act deals with the payment of Commonwealth benefits in the event of suspension or cancellation of registration of an organisation. 
Proposed new clause 21b. 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 
(18) 
"21b. Section 58a of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1.) the words 'One dollar fifty cents' and insterting in their stead the words Two dollars'.". 
Clauses 22 and 23 - by leave - taken together. 
After listening to the comments of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  on these amendments and on various aspects of thi Bill, it almost looks as though this Bill is as open ended as the original contract for the Fill aircraft. Although previously I have indicated that I reject the principles on which this whole legislation is founded, one thing is certain, and that is that it is not going to work unless the most common fee concept is accepted. We all know that there is a considerable disquiet about this. Not only is there disturbance in the Australian Medical Association and in the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, but the high fee group - I believe they call themselves the General Practitioners Society in Australia - is also in the act. So we have a situation where there is still enough doubt about the common fee schedule for us to be concerned. There is no firm composition for regular review of these fee schedules.  1  think this amendment should actually use the word 'schedules' because there are  7  schedules relating to fees. 
With respect to a previous amendment, the Minister placed a great deal of reliance on the Nimmo Committee recommendations. I invite the Committee to consider paragraphs  4.65  to  4.72  of the Nimmo Committee's report where it deals with fee reviews. The report of the Committee states:   . . one of the difficulties the medical profession has found in accepting the principle of a 'fee schedule' relates to the question of review of the schedule . . . in a period of rising costs and incomes. 
Certainly the medical profession cannot control this and it would be unreasonable to expect the medical profession to give an open cheque on this. That is why the Nimmo Committee recommended in paragraph  4.71: 
It is clearly desirable that common fees once established- 
We hope they are established, although we have some doubts about that: 
. should be stabilised for reasonably lengthy periods - we suggest 3 years. Frequent adjustment to contributions jar the system and make it very difficult for insurance organisations to operate effectively. 
We accept that. The report mentions 3 years. We have decided that  2  years would be a more suitable time factor. But in the preceding paragraph the Committee describes the necessity for the review of these fees at regular intervals. In fact, the need for this review was 1 reason why the Committee put forward the concept of a national health insurance commission. Obviously a body would have to be responsible for gather ng together all the factual material and statistics on which adjustments to the schedule could be made. So if we consider this need for a fee review, as was suggested by the Nimmo Committee, if we accept its suggestions that there is a procedure that could be used to allow for this regular adjustment, and if we accept that the Government has accepted and used it as the Nimmo Committee has, as an argument in relat'on to many other aspects of the Bill,  1  think we of the Opposition are entitled to inquire why these recommendations have been totally disregarded. As  1  have said, judging by the Minister's remarks it looks as though we have an open ended Bill. If this legislation is be ng introduced wilh no firm commitment, with no firm assurance that the common fee schedule will be adhered to, we have no attraction for the members of the medical profession in the sense of guaranteeing to them a regular fee review. Do we know for certain that the AMA will be the responsible body to negotiate on this point? In that case, the introduction of this legislation al all is negligent in the extreme, particularly when we get to this stage and find it is lo be hurriedly rushed through the Committee singe when these details could be discussed. 
It is not my intention to deal at any greater length with these amendments, because I believe this review of the common fees schedule is the most important aspect in stab lising this Bill - that is. if the Bill is desirable. I do not think that it is. Another matter which reinforces this opinion is the comment the Minister made in relation to dental procedures. We have him admitting that he has a definition 'n the Bill lo cover dental procedures, but as yet the Government does not know what dental procedures the Bill will cover. Docs this seem a responsible way of presenting legislation to the House and then p itting it before this Committee? I suggest that on those aspects alone the Government should bc condemned for a negligent attitude to this legislation. 
-I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "20a. Section 46 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead:- 
Where a person receives hospital treatment in an approved hospital, there is payable Commonwealth benefit of Two dollars for each day.'.". 
This is a hangover from the time when hospital treatment in Australia was free. In 1948 80c was payable for every bed day. The patient was subjected to no means test and no charge. Subsequently, in order to advance the voluntary insurance scheme, a so-called incentive of $2 a day for voluntarily insured patients was introduced by the Government. As mentioned by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  recently, the Queensland hospital system has been able to exist while supplying free public ward accommodation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed new clause 2 1a. 
There has been a lot of discussion about special account contributors and the matters of registrations of medical benefit organisations. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has mentioned a number of factors with regard to hospital insurance and the basic amount that could be payable for the ordinary patient and the mentally handicapped patient. One assumes that the special account fund is meant to be protection not only for those persons who are put into it but, more particularly, for the benefit organisation itself. One assumes that the terms laid down for the registration of medical benefit organisations are protective to the contributor. I have already spoken on another occasion about the very small role which contributors play in running these organisations, particularly the major ones. One would feel that under the terms of registration of such organisations there should be more clearly denned requirements for representation of contributors on the management body of these organisations. 1 have previously stated that there is a possibility that the Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria, which is a well recognised medical and hospital benefit fund, will have 52 members on the Board which runs the organisation, but of those 52 only 4 would be representatives of the contributors. Only 4 would represent three-quarters of a million persons who belong to that fund. This provision would give to the contributors a greater degree of protection. There is another factor. If the registration is cancelled and the organisation is ineligible for the Commonwealth benefit I can find nothing to cover what happens to the contributors' funds that are already in that organisation. Is any protection given to them against the disadvantage they will suffer? These are 2 points concerned with the registration of those organisations: What protection is given the contributor by way of representation in management of the funds? What protection is given him with regard to his share of the funds in the organisation if the registration is cancelled? 
asked  the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can he say what was the total amount spent on health services in Australia in each of the years 1950, 1955, I960, 1965 and 1969. 
Can he also state what percentage of the expenditure in each of those years was represented by (a) administrative expenses, (b) office, home, night and hospital calls, (c) consultations (specialist), (d) diagnostic X-ray, (e) anaesthetics, (f) surgical procedures including fractures. (?) confinements including pre-natal and post-natal care and (h) diagnostic procedures, refractions, injections, etc. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has he held discussions withany of the trained persons or their representative organisations who supply (a) dental, (b) optometrical, (c) speech therapy, (d) physiotherapy, (e) occupational therapy and (f) ambulance services with a view to easing the cost burden of these services to the individual; if so, which persons or organisations have been contacted. 
Has he made any decision regarding these services and their relevance to the national health scheme. 
Is he able to say whether these services are economically insurable under voluntary health insurance. 
What is the annual expenditure in Australia on each of these services. 
asked the Minister for 
Repatriation, upon notice: 
What is the bed establishment at each of the Repatriation General, Chronic and Convalescent Hospitals in Australia. 
How many of these beds are open and in use at each of these institutions at the present time. 
How many of the available beds at each institution are available for (a) patients from Vietnam, (b) the Regular Army, (c)ex-service men and women and (d) war widows. 
What is the average waiting time for each of these categories of patients at each appropriate hospital for (a) acute medical conditions, (b) acute surgical conditions, (c) elective medical conditions, (d) elective surgical conditions and (e) chronic conditions. 
How many of these patients in each State have been accommodated in private hospitals at repatriation expense in each of the last five years. 
What was the cost of this service in each of those years. 
Have beds on establishment been unavailable for use; if so why. 
What are the reasons for any waiting times for patients seeking attention in the various medical conditions referred to in paragraph (4). 
I do not want to delay the Committee in discussing these amendments. After all these four have been agreed to. The provision relating to the term of appointment of a member of the Specialist Recognition Advisory Committee and Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee is quite sensible because it exists for a set period of 3 years and provides for the removal of a member earlier if necessary. These committees may be formed from nominees from a variety of bodies who have an interest in the health scheme. Throughout our health services we have a number of such committees. One of the greatest dangers is that many of these committees members have held appointments from time immemorial. The trouble is that they do become remote from the immediate problems they are supposed to be dealing with. They are set up in a special position and feel that they have real perogatives In fact they have become as remote as the stars .from the real needs of the functioning of the committee. The Australian Labor Party welcomes this limitation and this regular review which will be carried out. The other recommendations will have some force. 
Amendment No. 7 is not in the same generic group of amendments because the last amendment deals with a review of the agreement with the Australian Medical Association in relation to pensioner medical services. One might' question at times whether the Australian Medical Association will effectively represent the general practitioner who carries out this agreement because it is only this section of the pensioner medical service which is provided at the moment. A regular review is needed because of changing conditions, and some of those changing conditions will be that no longer will honorary services exist at many of our government hospitals. The Australian Medical Association, many of the colleges concerned with specialists, and universities have indicated that they want to see the honorary system go. Hospital administrators have said the same thing. The need will develop for more reviews of this particular service, lt seems to be a sensible provision that a review should take place at least once every 2 years. 
Amendments agreed to. 

 Dr FORBES (Barker- Minister for Health) [5.481-1 move: 
That amendment No.  8  be disagreed to. 
The amendment provides for an. appeal against the disallowance by the Minister of a claim by a medical practitioner in respect of services rendered to pensioners under the pensioner medical service. In disallowing a claim the Minister acts in accordance with the report of a committee of inquiry constituted by medical practitioners. In making the report the committee considers whether the number of services given were appropriate having regard to generally accepted medical standards of treatment. The basis of its investigation is, therefore, medical and not legal. An appeal to a court from the determination of the Minister is therefore inappropriate. 
I wish to add my protest to that of my colleagues on this section of the amendment suggested by the Senate and which has been omitted. Firstly, the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in his statement said that because these gentlemen, who are directors of the funds, give very substantial time in a voluntary capacity to them - no one will deny that perhaps they do give substantial time in a voluntary capacity - it would be an unfair intrusion into their private affairs to expect their holdings, or those of their families, in any organisation in which the fund's reserves have been invested to be revealed. How much of an intrusion is this when we are dealing with public moneys? 
Does the Minister criticise those Liberal State governments who apply a similar rule to those men giving very substantial voluntary service in local government? Does he criticise his colleagues in those parliaments for preserving the rule that such voluntary workers must reveal any direct or indirect interest they have in organisations with which their voluntary bodies - municipal councils or shire councils - deal? Is he critical of that? This has been going on for many years and has been the subject of all-party inquiries in various States which have invariably confirmed the opinion that where public money is involved and where men are giving voluntary services there must be a protection in relation to any direct or indirect interest that any of the men serving in a voluntary capacity might get out of it. It is difficult for us on this side of the chamber to appreciate the Minister's weak arguments. All the precedents in this sense are against what he has to say. In fact our very commonsense is revolted by the attitude that is taken. Why, even men who work in voluntary capacities on hospital boards of management, if they so much as have the slightest commercial interest in any contract for food or other supplies for that hospital for which they work voluntarily immediately declare their interests, walk out of meetings on such matters and take no part in such discussions. 
As one of my colleagues has mentioned, this is an area in which investments are in excess of $70m. This is a very rich area of investment. Perhaps it is a very rich area of reward for someone who could influence the flow of those investments. Such a situation may not exist. But should not the public which has invested its money in or paid its money into these organisations be protected against that possibility? Is it an unfair intrusion into the private affairs of these people to expect them to have their integrity guaranteed in these circumstances? 
I would have thought that they would have demanded that their integrity be preserved. Workers in local government and councillors - in Victoria at any rate - demand that their integrity be preserved in this way. Even if their interest may be as remote as that of belonging to a voluntary body that may receive a municipal grant, these people believe that their integrity should be protected by a declaration of their interests. 
Here we have these enormous funds whose holdings are to be promoted further by what the Government is doing in this legislation. These funds will be able to enlarge and to expand their empires. The status of those who hold office in these organisations will be increased. Yet, the Government proposes to deny to the public and to contributors to those funds the protection which this portion of the amendment seeks to give. No doubt should exist in the mind of anybody that persons in a position of influence in these funds can so direct the investment of reserves in a way which would benefit themselves directly or indirectly. 
This is not an unreasonable request. This is not an unfair intrusion into the affairs of those people. Surely they would be willing to accept such an intrusion because they are so charitably minded in taking on this voluntary service. It does not mean that their whole financial affairs are displayed to the world. It merely means that if money from these reserve funds is invested in any organisation with which they are connected, that fact is declared. A statement of their financial position is not required. In no way are they disadvantaged. I think that it is a matter of great regret that the Government shows such lack of commonsense in regard to this matter con cerning the protection of the public and those persons who work voluntarily in these organisations. 
Motion (by  Dr Forbes)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put: 
That Senate's amendment No. 1 1 be disagreed to. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has he held discussions with the Australian Medical Association or other organisations representing medical practitioners, with a view to the institution by them of a system of (a) accredita tion of hospital and (b) medical and surgical audits of performance of medical practitioners using such accredited hospitals. 
Can he say whether adoption of such a system is considered necessary to preserve the quality of medical care under the fee for service system which exists in the United States of America. 
Can he say what principles country medical associations and insurance companies apply to differential payments under the most common fee system in the United States. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the signed letter on page 4 of National U, published by the 
National Union of Australian University Students on 23 April 1970, in which it Ls stated that instructors at Canungra revealed incidents where troops drewlots to determine who would have the pleasure of disposing of 2 wounded Viet Cong discovered after battle, an officer paid his men a dollar for every enemy killed, and other associated attitudes were mentioned. 
If so, has he had the matters investigated. 
If not, will he do so and report the results to Parliament. 
I wish to rise and, with some brevity, oppose the suggestion for a reduction in the quorum. It seems to me that there have been 3 general areas of discussion in this matter. An excuse for a reduction in the quorum has been the proposed introduction of the committee system. I have been rather disturbed at the way in which this argument has been used in the discussions for a proposed reduction in the quorum. I am disturbed because I have supported the committee system concept. I see it as something that will change the sort of Parliament we have. I do not believe, like many of the supporters of the reduction in the quorum, that if this scheme is introduced we will only divide our labour in different ways and that the Parliament will not change fundamentally at all. I see the committee system as a real hope for this Parliament to function once again as the most important national institution. The committee system will have a controlling effect on the executive and we will no longer be able to say that measures are passed just because governments have the numbers. Where all members are well informed and know the full impact of the legislation many governments will be fearful of imposing policy. 
I was shocked to hear the argument that because the committees and the House would be sitting at the same time this was  a  reason for a reduction of the quorum. If this is to be so I would have to change my support for the proposed committee system because such a system would be a weak and hollow weapon and would not bring about the change we want at all. Surely committees are meant to give us well informed membership, aware of the impact of the legislation that is to come before the House, so that members will have the opportunity to present some ideas of their own? If committees are to function in this way they must function separately from the House. The House will then serve as the place of national importance for serious political debate and decisions with as many informed members taking part as is necessary. It may mean that with the functioning of the House and committees separately we will have to be here for many more days. It may mean that with a better informed membership we will eventually have fewer sitting days of the House. If we have to run them separately and we have to spend more time away from home that is just too bad. I am one of those who enjoy electorate work. I do not mind being a sort of social welfare worker. 
But if these committees and the House are to function properly it is obvious that with the growing commitments we have, with the growth of the nation and with the greater volume of legislation coming forward, we are going to have to wake up to the fact that this is the most important national institution and that we will have to spend more time here. Indeed, we will have to realise that even the ordinary back bencher is going to need adequate staff to carry out these duties. So let us not use the committee system as an excuse for reducing the quorum. Let us see the proposal in its proper perspective. Let us not just explain it as another way to divide the hours we spend here. Let us accept it as something that is going to cause a real change in how Parliament functions. Then I think we will have to realise that members will want to take a more active part in the sittings of the House and in the matters that come before it. The second argument for the reduction of the quorum has been based on comparison with other parliaments. If we are trying to develop our own system these arguments are to me invalid and should be ignored. 
Finally, much has been said about the reduced quorum allowing decisions to be made by an extremely small group in this House. This is tossed aside as insignificant. I do not believe it is insignificant. 1 believe it is most important that when legislation is carried it should be carried by the deliberate vote of as many members of this Parliament as possible. We cannot shrug off our responsibilities and leave it to the few. If we do this then indeed the Parliament is in grave danger of very great reform because it will no longer exist as a democratic institution. If this general attitude is allowed to develop, the Parliament will be just a small group doing what it will. I trust the House will defeat this recommendation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Scullin respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian gallup poll, published in the Melbourne Herald' on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Does the Minister's Department offer any special assistance in obtaining employment to persons suffering from epilepsy? Is there any job safety assessment made of the type of employment available to them? Has there been any evidence of employer resistance to employing epileptics? If so, what has been done to allay this? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity. 
Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children. 
only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies. 
nations such as the United Kingdom and the United Slates have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
a joint Commonwealth State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities. 
the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aborigines. rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children. 
the provision of pre school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I listened with interest to what I could hear of the speech made by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  It seemed to me that apart from his absolute equation of the terms 'nationalisation' and 'Socialism' there was little to answer. I would like to remind the House of some figures that have been mentioned before in relation to the expenditure and estimates of the Post Office. In 1968-69 telecommunications showed a profit of $18m, while postal services accounted for a loss of$10m, giving a net profit of$8m. In 1969-70 telecommunications showed a $22m profit and postal services a loss of $15m, giving a net profit of $7m. The estimates for 1970-71 without any adjustments show a$19m profit for telecommunications and a $30m loss for postal services, making a total loss of$11m. With the increases proposed in this Bill we are told that in 1970-71 the telecommunications profit will be lifted to $39m and the postal loss will be only $9m. So there will be a $30m net profit. 
This is consistent with the twofold role of the Post Office. Firstly, telecommunications, which are predominantly a commercial undertaking, show a profit and the postal facilities, which are predominantly provided as a public service, are run at a loss. There is nothing novel about this. In the home of private enterprise, the United States of America, telecommunications fall within the province of private enterprise. The Post Office itself, which runs at a substantial loss, is run by the Government. The White Paper on the re-organisation of the Post Office in the United Kingdom, which has already been referred to, clearly shows the same sort of realisation in that country. On page 5 in paragraph 15 it states: 
The Corporation will inherit a number of public services which cannot be made financially viable at any reasonable level of charge. 
It then goes on to give examples of this. 
I realise that there have been a number of royal commissions on this subject over the years. There have been an ad hoc committee, inquiries by the Public Accounts Committee and numerous debates in this House. They all illustrate the basic difference between the approach of the Government and the approach of the Opposition. This is a widely held view, quite apart from any political considerations. The Government prefers to retain the Post Office as a department of state but wishes, despite the fact that political decisions of the government in power will be overriding, to conduct it as a commercial undertaking. The Government has accepted the view of the ad hoc committee of 1961 with regard to interest. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  pointed out the extent of this interest. It amounts to $106m per annum. Paragraph 65 on page 17 of the majority report of the ad hoc committee, referring to interest, states: 
The reason for this view is conceptually a very simple one. It is that the use of interest-free money is worth something in addition tothe money itself: That is to say, the recipient of an advance obtains a financial advantage greater than the amount of the advance. In other words, if interest is not chargeable on an advance, an advantage is obtained by the recipient at the expense of the provider. It follows that the noncharging of interest on any part of the net advances that have been provided to the Post Office would mean, for the purpose of Term of Reference 1 (a), the conferring of an advantage on the Post Office at the expense of the provider of the funds - in this case, through the Treasury, the taxpayer - thus transferring a cost from the Post Office to the taxpayer. If the Post Office had obtained its finance from some financier other than the Treasury, it would unquestionably have been required to pay interest. 
But I think we should look at the minority report. Paragraph 26 on page 54 states: 
The justification for the majority view is said to be 'conceptually a very simple one. It is that the use of interest free money is worth something in addition to the money itself. We do not think that this is a valid or even a currently accepted theory of interest. 
The report then goes on: 
For our purposes, it is sufficient to say that interest may, in the context with which we are concerned, be treated as the price which the owner can exact from the use of money. When the community, as taxpayers, provides money for the community, as Post Office customers, it is a matter of judgment whether a price for the use of the money should be exacted from the customers. 
This is what we are trying to say. The taxpayers lend the money and then pay interest on it. I will not pursue that any further as it has been mentioned previously on numerous occasions. The Opposition feels that the Post Office may better operate as a public corporation; so we have asked for a select committee. Not only have we moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading calling for a select committee but we are also opposed to the increases in post and telegraph rates and intend to vote against the second reading of this Bill if our amendment is not carried. I think it should be made clear that we are opposed to those increases. 
We realise that the financial complications of the Post Office are a rather frightening morass to the ordinary individual. The clear presentation of its financial report is a tribute to its staff. A lot of problems arise because the Post Office provides services that otherwise would or may be provided by private enterprise only at exorbitant charges. Yet at present they are considered as part of the loss of the Post Office. Let me give some of the advantages of a public corporation. These are not meant to be all inclusive by any means. Firstly, it would allow greater freedom in long term planning. This does not decry the technological advances that have been made by the Post Office already. But being so dependent on political policy determinations and lacking any ability to borrow for development, either in the short term or the long term, the Post Office is inhibited as a commercial undertaking. Other public corporations borrow money and make long term plans for development. This greater freedom would contribute to the success of the Post Office as a commercial undertaking. 
Secondly, much development work in the area of communications is carried out by the Post Office. Whilst the know-how, skills and techniques are present, there is nowhere for them to be used except in the Post Office. Surely in this area the Post Office should be able to compete with private enterprise on the open market and to tender competitively for projects, allowing the return to be used for the benefit of the users of the Post Office services. Thirdly, a large proportion of the employees have been trained and have acquired skills in procedures of the Post Office - training and skills which in many instances have little use in outside industry and commerce. It would be more appropriate to have the Post Office separate from other Public Service departments and not to have determinations on the wages and conditions of its employees made by the Public Service Board. This would lead to greater ease of recruiting and a happier and more productive employer-employee relationship. 
Fourthly, it is obvious that because of its public service aspect the Post Office, if it were a corporation, should and could attract a subsidy or grant from the Government to compensate it for the cost of the public service so given. The honourable member for Deakin said that perhaps this might be needed; I say, it might be a desirable thing. We should have a look at some of these public service factors. For example, for some time pensioners have had a concession of a one-third reduction in their telephone rental. With the proposed new annual rentals this concession will still remain. 
However, let us have a look at what it does to charges for the pensioners. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  supplied a table in his second reading speech. It shows that in class 1 the pensioner's annual rental will be increased by 17.4 per cent. In class 2 the increase will be 28.1 per cent, and in class 3 it will be 42.5 per cent. If we take it in actual amounts, it means that out of the $26 per annum increase in the pension pensioners will have taken from them for annual rental an additional sum of $4.68 in classes 1 and 3 and $4.66 in class 2. Therefore, 18 per cent of their increase is gone on I item from this Department. 
The other increases in the Post Office might well affect them in much the same way. These increases have come from an area that makes a substantial profit. It might be said that this group of people should not need to have telephones to any great degree. When debates are held on social service matters we hear from many honourable members on both sides of the House about the loneliness, the illness and the dispair among this group. The telephone service may well be the instrument that is lifesaving in some cases. At least a telephone adds some quality to life by reducing boredom. As I have said before, many people who are affected in this way are old persons who suffer illnesses. They might have acute episodes of illness and in many cases the availability of a phone is lifesaving. When speaking in debates on social service bills we talk about the need to visit these people and the need to relieve their boredom. This instrument in many cases provides the personal contact that is so necessary in assisting these people. In fact, this is one of the reasons why we oppose this sort of increase in such a profitable area of communications. 
We can go even further. Massive housing developments have been built I know of a tenant who recently was transferred from a housing commission home to a single person's flat which was situated in a block of housing commission flats. This person applied for her phone to be transferred. She was told that she would not receive a transfer for some months because no cables were available. Surely with proper planning a corporation in association with the housing commissions could implement forward planning to ensure a reasonably adequate supply of telephone lines when buildings were constructed. A similar public service aspect is shown with the subsidy that is given to rural users whom the Post Office is now assisting with the first 15 miles of line. I do not object to this, but is this subsidy really a legitimate charge against the Post Office? Or should we see it as a contribution towards decentralisation and rural development? Should we say that general revenue is used for this purpose to help the corporation to carry out these sorts of things? These are a couple of public service elements in a section of the Post Office which shows a substantial profit. 1 now would like to move to the postal section where the massive loss occurs. If one forgets about interest charges one finds increases of 20 per cent. Here again we have a service which, without exorbitant charges, cannot run at a profit. In fact, if steps were taken to improve the efficiency of methods and the conditions of employees the loss would be even greater. At the moment one cannot rely even on letters posted at this House arriving at one's electorate office or letters posted in Northcote travelling the 3 miles to Reservoir, if recent experiences of mine are any criteria. The position of the business Press has been raised by some of my colleagues. It has been pointed out that increases vary from  40percentto140percentandthatin  many cases it is cheaper to produce and post from overseas. In his second reading speech on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill the Postmaster-General said: 
While the fostering of a strong publishing and printing industry in Australia is important, this function is not appropriate for the Post Office. 
I agree. But in the face of more and more business printing being done in overseas countries, particularly Asian countries and posted from there, surely we have some responsibility to preserve our industry. Something must be done to do this. Even special grants to some sort of public corporation or a subsidy from the Government will be worth while in these circumstances. 
The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  talked about the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria journal. This Government cannot evaluate the amount of work that organisation does for road safety and the amount of money that it saves by assisting governmental departments in this way. The Postmaster-General also said in his second reading speech in regard to concessional rates for journals: 
Similarly, the activities of the many organisations helped may be desirable, but again it is not the role of the Post Office to support religious denominations, charitable bodies, educational, scientific and technical institutions and the like. 
Yet, these are the bodies which legislation passed in this House so often relies upon for voluntary initiative in such matters as housing, homes for the aged, sheltered workshops and meals on wheels. In fact, if they do not show voluntary initiative these areas do not receive benefits at all. The Government relies on these bodies to show initiative and if it gives them responsibilities it has a like responsibility to assist their operations. This need not necessarily be done through the Post Office, but the Government has a responsibility to assist them. A corporation could handle this matter. After all, the Government's attitude is rather different when it comes to presorted bulk postage where substantial discounts are given. As has already been said, most of this bulk postage is used for advertising promotion of the worst passible kind in which there are many traps for the innocent. I could give details of these. I instance the offering of bait prizes and so on. This business is a darned racket. The quantity of advertising material received by doctors under the bulk postage rate and the cost it must add to drugs alarm me. Even if we made these firms pay more for this type of mail I doubt whether we would stop them from choking our letter boxes with it because it is a much cheaper form of advertising than the Press, radio or television and it is more direct. 
I have spent a little time pointing out the service aspects of the Post Office. This is what makes the running of this department of State as a commercial undertaking so difficult. Setting the Post Office up as a public corporation with its definite commercial and service functions would allow proper commercial practices and even appropriate grants to be paid to compensate for its service aspects. My colleagues have outlined the reason for the amendment that has been moved and for our opposition to the increases contained in the Bill. Perhaps the new charges may have occurred whatever organisation was set up. Yet there seems to be no effort to differentiate between the commercial undertakings of the Post Office which are profitable and the public service aspects which leads to loss. One cannot feel confident unless there is a complete change in the functional concept of the Post Office. There is a need for sensible financing and for a change in the conditions for staff and the service given to the people. 
The estimates debate in its restricted time scarcely allows for a wide ranging debate on health matters. Admittedly, we have quite recently had a debate on changes in voluntary medical insurance, which is only one facet of the matters dealt with by the Department of Health. I believe that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  should make a ministerial statement on the Commonwealth Government's across the board attitude to its whole range of responsibilities in the health field and should allow full debate on it. For the present I will content myself with trying to deal with 3 matters. The first is the attitude of doctors to the medical benefits scheme. The second concerns the problem of the aged, with nursing homes. The third matter concerns the problem of special groups, particularly those requiring home renal dialysis machines. I am prompted to deal with the first matter because of the general feeling in the community that doctors are more interested in material reward and their claim of great privileges for themselves than in the setting up of a proper health scheme. I believe that this sort of attitude will be a real threat and will cause a complete breakdown of the Government's scheme, with all its faults. 
Initiating this thought was an address on fees by the retiring  President  of the South Australian branch of the Australian Medical Association, .  Dr J.  Magarey- -an address which contained very little humility or sense of community responsibility but plenty of making sure of material reward. In his address he described doctors' fees in the past and continued the inference that these, both past and present, have always been a matter of direct payment between doctor and patient. This is demonstrably untrue. For example, in ancient Greece doctors were paid by a third party, the community. In Rome it was the army, and in mediaeval times it was the feudal lords. When we shift to modern times, many honourable members will remember the per capita payments by lodges which formed the very basis of doctors' incomes.  Dr Magarey  quoted with approval 3 statements by  Dr Hudson,  the  President  in 1967 of the American Medical Association.  Dr Hudson  stated: 
Direct billing is not a primary objective in itself. Its significance is that it constitutes a reminder of the constant threat to make medical care impersonal. 
He further stated: 
A living, strong, fully understood and fully honoured contract between the patient and his physician is a solid barrier to socialised medicine. 
Of socialised medicine he stated: 
The broad objective is to create a feeling of entitlement to medical services and at the same time to destroy a feeling of responsibility for paying for them. 
What nonsense all this is. American doctors have a very real third party in most of their transactions and are subjected to a great deal of private and governmental control which they reasonably accept, although they may chafe at it, and which I am afraid, although Australian doctors are completely intransigent and claim privileges given to doctors in no other part of the world, will be necessary here from sheer practicability and weight of human feeling. I remind honourable members that many doctors in the United States are salaried. 
Even if we forget the substantial subsidy the community gives Australian doctors in their training and practice there are other factors. As a warning to them I would like to quote from an article in the 'New Statesman' of 31st July 1970 headed 'US Lesson for British Doctors'. It states: 
British doctors who rail against increasing assaults upon their professional freedom by government and other interfering and uninformed outsiders often look longingly towards the US. Some of them even go there. But before deciding finally that the medical life is wonderfully different in America, our native practitioners would well to note what Walter V. McNerney, President of Blue Cross has to say. 

 Mr McNerney stated: 
We have shifted more toward the community side - away from the hospital doctor - and Blue Shield have come through quite a noticeable shift too, because they simply can't stand the allegation that they're nothing more than a tool of the medical profession. It just doesn't cut the mustard any more. The consumer groups are getting very suspicious. They want somebody to represent them in bargaining. 
That refers to those voluntary insurance bodies in the United States. The article in the 'New Statesman' further states: 
Therefore the voice of the people who provide, handle and disburse this cash is powerful and persuasive. In the first place Blue Cross and government together are exhorting the individual institutions which take their money 'to think on a community-wide basis in planning their future', and the exhortations are backed by an increasing  use of legislation which already exists in all 50 States of the Union, giving the civil power the right to approve or prohibit new medical buildings. The thesis here is that unless you get control of the capital structure you're in troublein other words, it's not the down payment that kills you, it's the mortgage payments that follow.' 
Secondly, Bue Cross is trying to promote the practice of what McNerney calls 'incentive reimbursements'. This would replace the 'cost-plus' type of payment at present in use, which is equivalent to an open cheque in the case of Institutions, or the vague or contentious 'usual and customary fee' in the case of the individual physicians 
Which we have here. The article continues: 
Self-esteem,' says McNerney, 'isn't the best discipline in the world, and the ideal prospective is that you and I would work out a scheme a schedule if you're a physician, so much per day if you're running a hospital and you live with it and within it for, say, 2 years and then negotiate.' Thirdly, the insurers are taking a deep interest in the organisation of primary medical care. 
The Nixon Administration is encouraging non-profit organisations like Blue Cross to provide a full range of services, including primary care, and the Government then negotiates a per capita sum for which the contractor agrees to look after the needs of local citizens for whom the State has assumed responsibility. I regret that I cannot outline this in detail. The article continues: 
Finally, Blue Cross is coolly exploiting the fact that even doctors and hospital administrators are human, and are swayed by human emotions such as shame and pride. Computers are making it easy for the organisations to demonstrate how different hospitals vary widely in efficiency  . . Similarly it is becoming possible to quantify and compare the clinical efficiency of individual physicians . . . 
The lesson is still predominantly conservative British medical profession- 
You could substitute 'Australian' there -  should learn from all this is that the day of the domineering and self-sufficient doctor, blinding his clients with Aesculapian magic, is gone forever. The customer demands efficiency, accountability and satisfaction, and is able to impose his will as muchthroughtheagencyofaprivate insurance scheme, as through the voice of his elected government. 
I may question the complete truth of the last proposition, but it is certainly one in relation to which Australian doctors ought to wake up and co-operate in giving a decently planned opportunity to the community as is occurring elsewhere in the free world.  Dr Magarey  would have done his profession a service by reminding them of this instead of repeating old shibboleths. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has pointed out that we see the Government playing an even greater role in the financing of services. We believe that all should contribute. We believe that the doctorpatient relationship can be preserved, but what is required is a partnership between the doctor and the community, not a constant battle for exorbitant reward for the doctor.  1  move on to the matter of nursing homes. The 1969-70 report of the DirectorGeneral of Health indicates an increase of nursing home benefits by $ 1 5.7m to $47 . 4m. These benefits may have increased but the increase may have been at the expense of a saving in hospital benefits. I remind the House that there are  2  components to nursing home benefits. There is an ordinary benefit of  $2  a day. Then there is a supplementary benefit of $3 a day payable to patients who are classified as needing and receiving intensive nursing home care. But a lot who apply for the extra $3 get knocked back. Despite the fact that they have been transferred from institutions on the instruction of their attending doctor who says that they need and will receive this intensive nursing home care, they do not receive it. 
Many of these patients who may be insured are admitted to private hospitals which are subjected to inspection. On inspection the percentage of aged and chronically ill at the hospitals and the length of their stay is taken into consideration. There is an implied threat that if these patients are in the hospital for more than 6 weeks and there is an increasing number of them the private hospital will be downgraded to a nursing home. In other words an effort is made to get them out of insurable private hospitals to uninsurable nursing homes where so many of them receive only $2 a day. A practical example of this is found in today's 'Sun'. It concerns a man who has been 50 years in a hospital benefits fund, has a chronically ill wife with brain damage in a nursing home but he cannot receive any benefit at all from his voluntary insurance. An ordinary aged person or an elderly pensioner who has a stroke will go into a public hospital where because he is  a  pensioner he is accommodated and treated free of charge. 
Because public hospital beds are intended for the treatment of acute cases this elderly person will eventually be shifted out. If he is insured he will go to a private hospital. He will probably stay there for 6 weeks because he is able to claim voluntary insurance. He will then be pushed into a nursing home. A nursing home charges anything between $60 and $90 a week. To pay this amount the elderly patient has his pension of $15.50 and the Commonwealth subsidy of $14 which totals $29.50. This leaves a residue of some $30 to $60 to be found by the patient's family. In many cases families are unable to meet this sum. I admit that some subsidies are paid from State instrumentalities like the Hospitals and Charities Commission .of Victoria. If a person's assets are down to $300, he can receive some assistance. But there is always a substantial subsidy to be paid by the family. There is a shortage of beds in public institutions for geriatric cases. In Victoria the State Government has 4,000 beds with a waiting list of 5,000. I believe that this position holds in all States. 
The nursing home system for the chronically ill and the aged is the most shameful facet of our health services today. The accommodation and care for the aged, whether it be housing or hospital accommodation, cannot be taken in isolation. I regret that with my time expiring 1 cannot take up a plea for some of the special groups under the health scheme. I have written to the Minister regarding patients suffering from renal diseases who need home dialysis units. I gave him in some detail what happens in this respect. He courteously replied, but he did not seem to appreciate that the outlay in supplying this home dialysis unit allows the patient to be converted from a chronic sufferer on a pension to a person who can at least return to work, often full time, and save the expense of. the pension. These people can support themselves at less than half the cost that the community would incur if they were in hospital. I ask the Minister to review this position urgently and see what can be done for these people. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Premier of Victoria formally sought the transfer of the Victorian railways to the Commonwealth? If so, under what terms and conditions was the transfer offered, and when will a decision be made? 
 Other speakers have pointed out that for 25 years immigration has been a major item of Commonwealth Government expenditure and that 2.6 million new settlers have been the result. Indeed, the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  pointed out that our immigration history is a much longer one. The honourable member for Deakin pointed out that the number of migrants we have received in modern times have given us a lead over the immigration rate that even (he United States of America achieved. 1 was very much impressed in the United States to see the museum of immigration that has been set up at the base of the Statue of Liberty. It preserves primary sources such as documents, letters, books, photographs and relics in a display which tells the story of migration to that country, and it will continue to do so for many years. I believe that in many ways our story of migration will rival that of the United States, and I think that now is the time to start such a project to preserve these primary sources - relics and so on - so that in the future people will have a better appreciation of how migration contributed to this nation's growth and development. 
Only of late has there been a questioning of whether a vigorous and expanding migration programme is the best thing for Australia. The Opposition believes that a proper immigration programme must have a basis of and work towards ensuring Australia's national and economic security, the welfare and integration of all its citizens and the balanced development of our nation. We must also take note of and avoid the social and economic problems which might follow from an influx of peoples having widely different standards of living, traditions and cultures. 
I compliment the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  and his Department because I believe they possess the same sort of principles and believe in a questioning of the proper role of immigration. The Minister has initiated major examinations of aspects of immigration. We may differ with his methods and possibly his conclusions and actions, but we recognise the effort being made and await the conclusions that will be reached. The staff of the Department of Immigration has been most helpful and understanding in any cases I have put before it. In only one instance has an inquiry 1 have made never been promptly and courteously answered. This one case about which I have written on two occasions referred to a third year medical student at the University of Melbourne. He was born in Shanghai of Dutch parents who have migrated to Australia and are now naturalised.  His  younger brother has Australian citizenship. This young man applied for naturalisation, but his request has not been acceded to. My queries as to reasons have not been answered. I might add that he is, to use what is a probably an unofficial term, a conscientious non-complier in that he refuses to register for national service. If this is the reason for his failure to get naturalisation, it should be stated. This sort of political discrimination disturbs me. 
Recently I was invited to address an informal group of young migrants from a European country on Australia's political setup. In the main they were young married couples who had migrated at about the same time. They were looking forward to naturalisation. They were of good education and varied political opinions. They meet each month in a discussion group to discuss Australian arts, theatre, books, politics and so on. Several of them expressed their support for my political party and their concern about Australia's involvement in Vietnam and other issues. However, they offered the view that they were afraid to take part in political activity because of a general feeling that migrants who took part in political parties other than the Government parties may be refused naturalisation. Although the Minister has assured the House that the numbers refused naturalisation for political reasons were small, I am very concerned with the development of this view among migrants under our immigration plan, particularly amongst such a very responsible group. If it is not so, it should be vigorously denied and advised to new settlers. After listening to the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt),  I know that he would not agree with this. 
I should like to refer to a speech made by the Minister for Immigration to the Metal Trades Industry Assocation in Melbourne on 30th July of this year. He said, amongst other things: 
It is important that Australians understand what can and what cannot reasonably be asked of the immigration programme. It is not intended to - nor can it - insure us against the consequences of our own shortcomings. It is not an alternative to sound wages policies. 
It is not an alternative to adequate industrial and occupational training facilities in Australia. Tt does not absolve us from our responsibility to train professional, skilled and other key workers. 
Immigration's essential role in these areas is to supplement and reinforce other lines of action. It does not absolve others from their responsibilities. 
I do not quote this to disagree with it. I do however believe that the Department of Immigration is being let down in other areas of Commonwealth Government administration, or perhaps the Minister fails to convince his colleagues. If immigration is not intended as an alternative to adequate industrial and occupational training facilities, if it does not absolve us from our responsibility to train professional, skilled and other key workers, then the complete lack of forward long term Australian objectives in education and quality of education, which was highlighted in the recent debate on the estimates for the Department of Education and Science, should not exist. Further, a matter raised at the Citizenship Convention in Canberra in February of this year regarding the recognition of overseas qualifications should never have arisen. The report of the committee investigating this question is a matter of utmost urgency. To wait 25 years is just not good enough. 
At the same convention the question of the desirability of chain migration was raised, particularly by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who said: 
I suggest to the Convention that special studies be made of areas where chain migration has been particularly successful. Chain migration enables the base families to act as welfare officers to migrants. They take care of their work, accommodation and entertainment. 
If we are to use base families in this, the Department of Health and the Department of Social Services must review their attitude to standards for elderly and ailing members of such families. Often the members of the base family will settle better and he happier and more productive in their endeavours if the complete family unit is with them. Too often we have constituents approaching us because their aged and ailing parents and relatives are not able to migrate with them or the parents have had less than 10 years here, are destitute and no social services are available to them. It seems that while it might involve greater social service and health expenditure it may increase the economic productivity of the family unit in a way that more than compensates for this. 
Comment is made in this year's Budget Papers that: 
Expenditure on migrant education services is estimated to increase by $2,667,000 following the Government's decision to expand migrant education programmes. 
Then a breakdown is given. This sounds laudable enough but it cannot gloss over the problem that exists. My electorate has a high migrant population, although nowhere near as high as that in some inner metropolitan electorates. The problem of language difficulty is therefore well known to me. For example, at Heidelberg Girls High School there are some 38 students who are forced to travel to a school in another suburb for assistance with the English language. This sort of thing is not sufficient. It seems to me that it would bc better if their language retraining was done at their own school. Surely even with this number it would be worth while to have a part time visiting teacher for this work. But it is not only active teaching that is important. To such schools should go special grants for books and for libraries both of a general and specific nature related to the use of the students' native languages and English. I suppose this is loo much to expect when State secondary schools in Victoria anyway cannot even find out what sort of priority they have for Commonwealth library assistance. lt is difficult to develop this educational theme to solve migrant language problems in such a short space of time. Many statements have been made on it, the most recent being a series in the Melbourne Herald' of last week, indeed, the subject matter took up much of the discussion at this year's Citizenship Convention. To give some examples of its magnitude 1 refer to one of the background papers on the language problems of migrant children at that. Convention. The paper cited a 1968 survey in New South Wales where it was shown that, with 5 per cent of the total school population being migrant children, some 32 per cent of these, representing about 1 6.500 children, were considered to have language difficulties. It would seem that there are many steps to be taken here in Australia, but even more importantly there must be a call for expenditure on such children in their country of origin and, since the problem extends to adults, on their parents too. Our immigration officers overseas, particularly in countries sending large numbers to Australia, can and do start this process from the time the first approaches are made, wherever practicable. However, a great increase in activity and expenditure on these people is an urgent matter. It would seem that expenditure in this respect will salvage many families from despair when they reach Australia. 
Perhaps after 25 years the Department of Immigration should not only be concerned with just mere money. Has it assessed past performances in this field? Does it know where various programmes have gone wrong and where they were correct? What is our potential source of teachers in this language field? How many have we who are adequately trained? Are they teachers with training in the special techniques needed for teaching individuals at the various levels of age and in language teaching itself? What are the best methods of convincing migrants that facility in the use of English is so very important? What incentives ar: needed to keep them in this training? What are the results of the failure to provide adequately? 
In closing I will quote from the first of these articles that I mentioned in the Herald' last week. The article states: 
Their pupils will be the unlucky ones who were brought, by well-meaning parents, to 'The Lucky Country' - at the wrong time. 
The wrong time, in both the official and the personal sense. Wrong, from the official standpoint, because a system to aid migrant children is now only getting started. 
Wrong, in the personal sense, because age of arrival in Australia can determine whether a child will have a chance, or be a no-hoper. For many of these children, migration to Australia meant only a door slammed on their future. 
In the words of one inner suburban girls' high school principal, they will achieve higher education only if they are geniuses. 
And nature doesn't throw up many geniuses. 
Further on in the article it states: 
Up against even bigger problems are children who arrive in Australia during the primary school years - say, seven, eight or nine. 
The article states further: 
At least SO per cent of them will never master anything more than 'functional English'. It will nol enable them to cope with secondary school work. Their textbooks, as they get out of form two and three, will be beyond their comprehension. 
So much for the instant Australians that we heard the preceding speaker mention. He told us that they are able to adjust over night. This is arrant nonsense and should be dismissed. It should be understood that they do not adjust over night. The article says further: 
They will remain in school until IS or so, but only a few will go on to do Leaving or Matric. The great majority will leave school early and take unskilled jobs in factories. 
Many of them could have gone on to higher education, and the professions, had they been working in their native tongue in their homelands . . or if proper facilities to teach them "in English had existed here. - 
What a waste of potential. What a sentence to pass on children. This should be a matter of the gravest and greatest concern to the community. 
Yes, I second the amendment.  Mr Speaker,  I wish to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  for numerous reasons. The principal one is that having some experience of Victoria's mental health services over the last few years it has been borne upon me more and more that the Commonwealth subsidy system of $1 for the State's $2 places too great a strain on the State's financial structure for adequate provision to be made in the mental health institution field. Another reason is that in my electorate are situated the mental health institutions of Mont Park, Larundel. Plenty, Bundoora repatriation mental institution and not so very far away the lanefield centre for the mentally retarded. Having contact with people concerned with these institutions and with others who have relatives within the institutions one comes to realise that there is so much to be done. 
Probably in the last 25 years the most significant facets of mental health services in Australia have been, firstly, the report of the late Professor Kennedy to the Victorian Government in 1948 which led to the setting up of the Mental Health Authority in that State. That is a system which, despite many criticisms I may have about its operation, has set guidelines for other Australian States and even developing overseas countries. The second facet was the Stoller report which arose from investigations carried out in 1954 and to which the honourable member for Oxley referred. That report led to the third facet: The Commonwealth Government committed itself from 1955 onwards to direct financial grants to the States. The fourth facet was the role of  Dr Cunningham  Dax,  Chairman  of the Mental Health Authority in Victoria from 1952-69, whose book 'Asylum to 
Community', published in 1961, summarised the development of mental health services in the past and offered a blueprint for the development of such services in the future in the light of changed community attitude, changed methods of treatment, and so on. 
The fifth factor which should be mentioned is. of course, a world wide one, and that is the introduction of new drugs particularly those of the chlorpromazine and phenothiazine group. These have led to a greater reduction in hospital admissions, length of hospital stay and have returned many people to early community participation. However, this earlier return to the community has required an increase in support of services in the community. This is a need which is not even fulfilled in the most rudimentary form. It is also the subject of the amendment in the suggestion for the development of community and integrated mental health services on a regional basis. I have identified these factors on the Australian scene because I think it is on this background that we must examine what has and what has not been done. It was indicated for the first time by a Commonwealth Minister for Health in the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  that the Commonwealth would, over the 3-year period in which this legislation will apply, take an interest in what the States were doing. He said: 
The development by the States of community and integrated mental health services will be kept under observation by the Commonwealth so that, at the end of the 3-year period, the Government will be in a position to consider what future role the Commonwealth should phty in the mental health field. 
Does this mean that the Minister is satisfied that services other than these are near to a satisfactory situation? I can assure him that they are not. The Stoller report, from which arose the decision of the Commonwealth Government to initiate a capital grants programme to assist States in constructing mental health institutions, also contained a number of other important recommendations by which the Commonwealth could have played a positive initiating role in the mental health services instead of being purely purveyors of pelf. The honourable member for Oxley outlined in his speech a number of these recommendations which were made in a positive way. Where, if any, has there been a stimulus to the States to provide proper mental health services? 
In the period 1955 to 1964 when the legislation specified entitlements for each State the only States which took up their full entitlements were Victoria and Tasmania. New South Wales had taken up most of its entitlement. South Australia had taken up more than 80 per cent. Queensland and Western Australia had taken up about half of their entitlements. Of course, in the present legislation any semblance of targets is absent. This is even more important when one considers the absence of targets and the financial difficulties that such a subsidy places on the States. Even if the Commonwealth suggested targets in certain areas it would be a worthwhile exercise. I know that it has been an article of faith for successive Conservative Ministers of Health to say that mental health services in all their aspects, except financial assistance, are matters for the States. I suppose there is some fear amongst honourable members on the Government side of the kind expressed yesterday in the Victorian Parliament but despite this criticism the Commonwealth in making this expenditure must show some responsibility for the expenditure. 
It is not good enough just to supply money without inquiring whether it is adequate and whether it is given in the proper form. No attempt is made by the Commonwealth even to suggest that part of these moneys should be apportioned to give a reasonably balanced overall effect. I will illustrate this point in a simple way by referring to the State of Victoria. The amounts received by Victoria under States grants legislation in recent years for mental health services were as follows: In 1966-67, $1,192,374; in 1967-68, $1,381,403; in 1968-69, $1,200,065. We get some idea of the imbalance when we break these figures down. If we break them down to the amounts spent on residential training centres for the mentally retarded and on other mental health institutions and the amount recovered from the Commonwealth during the 3-year period, a rather interesting picture emerges. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table which outlines this breakdown of the expenditure and the recovery. 

<graphic href="070131197010151_49_8.jpg"></graphic>

The source of this table is Victorian Hansard. The table shows that in 1968-69, for example, some $66,170 in Commonwealth grants was expended on centres for the mentally retarded whereas Si, 133,895 was spent on other institutions. The amount spent on centres for the retarded had dropped to one-third of what it was 3 years previously. This is a considerable disproportion. If we examine the waiting list for such centres for the mentally retarded we find that as at December 1969 there were 193 cases On the waiting list classified as most urgent, 308 cases considered urgent, 903 cases pending admission and 215 other cases. In other words there was a total of 1,619 cases on the waiting list, of which 501 were urgent or worse. The waiting list is growing ali the time and each one of those cases on the waiting list represents a disadvantaged family. Surely this situation requires a sorting out of priorities. 
I ask the Minister for Health what this payment of Commonwealth grants has meant in each State in each of the last 10 years in supplying, for example, firstly, new residential institutions for the treatment of acute mental cases, and how many beds in them; secondly, new residential institutions for the treatment tff chronic mental cases, and how many beds; and, thirdly, new residential institutions for the treatment of the mentally retarded, and how many beds in those. What was the extent of renovations to existing institutions to preserve their capacity to hold patients? What outpatient and day centres for the mentally ill did these grants provide? How many beds in mental institutions are occupied by what are essentially geriatric cases? The honourable member for Oxley  has  mentioned this. It  is  a common occurrence, unfortunately, that because of a lack of geriatric beds many patients go into these institutions for social reasons. The honourable member  for  Oxley mentioned the work overseas of  Dr Kidd  Who showed that this is the poorest sort of treatment for such cases. Finally, what sort of waiting lists are in existence for the various categories that I have mentioned? Without this sort of information how can the Government evaluate whether the State grants are worthwhile? How can the Government ensure that the State is able to utilise these grants in a worthwhile manner? I cannot find such information and I do not know whether the Goverment itself knows the answers. 
The trouble is that in the past  -  15 lc 20 years ago - the conditions in these institutions were so incredibly bad that the Government has become smug about the improvements that have been made. I instance the conditions in the Kew Cottages in 1952: 
There were open drains and children caught worms by drinking the water; there was little storage accommodation; the paint was drab and peeling;, the children's clothing was awful: small boys had unlaced boots, long moleskin trousers turned up at the bottom, adult football jerseys which had been given to the Cottages by a football club, old army jackets above the jerseys and whatever hats they could collect. The children were dirty and had very little washing accommodation. Many played in a shed during the day in a half nude state. There was a battery of lavatories with 8 or 10 adjoining seats, but there was no way of swilling the excreta out of the trough except by walking 30 yards for water. They passed urine into the open drains. The patients ate from tins with their fingers and slept on straw mattresses. The place smelt of stale food, excreta and unsatisfactory drainage.. Many of the patients were dependent and incontinent and had to be helped by other patients because the staff was so short. Some of the sewage emptied on to adjacent fields where cattle were feeding. A number of tin sheds contained the stores. 
This was only 18 years ago. Is it any wonder that there is a sense of satisfaction when some improvement is made on these incredible conditions? But, of course, what is needed is a lot of improvement. 
While these grants are essentially for capital works, is the Commonwealth concerned to see that these institutions can be adequately staffed? There are shortages of staff of all kinds and there has been a lack of recruits offering for psychriatric nursing courses. Many courses are offered for psychiatric nurses and some do not attract even one recruit. Is the Government interested in seeing that these institutions are staffed? There is persistent and continuing staff unrest because of poor conditions. Consequently there are more and more vacancies in the trained psychiatric establishments of the institutions. The physical and financial conditions are so poor that psychiatrists increasingly are seeking practice elsewhere. These problems cannot be divorced from any system of capital grants for our mental institutions. I believe that the mental hospital system in Victoria is considered to be probably the best in Australia. I only wish that the Minister for Health would visit some of the institutions in that State. Despite staff efforts to make them as clean, bright and cheerful as possible, nothing can hide the immense amount of expenditure that is needed at places like Beechworth, Sunbury, Ararat and elsewhere to bring them up to anything resembling acceptable standards. Let the Minister look, see and wonder on the effectiveness of these grants and on the ability of the States to meet their share of these grants in providing proper facilities. I do not deny the need for such grants to the financially disadvantaged States but the Commonwealth must interest itself in how the amounts are spent and must initiate and promote programmes of mental services. 
Only  3  years ago a prominent psychiatrist in Melbourne was able to say that some attempted suicide cases were thrown out of hospital with a handful of drugs and no out-patient appointment. The psychiatrist was  Dr Bartholomew  and he said that of a group he studied,  52  per cent took drugs home on discharge and had to wait too long for their next out-patien's' appointment. In other words, the out-patient facilities were so poor that some out-patient appointments were for as far ahead as  7  weeks after discharge. This information was quoted at a seminar where another psychiatrist mentioned that general hospitals in Victoria would need to provide services for more than  2,500  attempted suicide cases in one year. Each of these attempted suicide cases would require follow-up services in the community for effective treatment to enable them to return quickly to a reasonable role in society. Since that date  3  years ago the State government has had thrust on it - on paper anyway - a new set-up for alcoholic and drug dependent persons. When it will have a much more material structure is anybody's guess. Is it any wonder that  Dr Cunningham  Dax fled Victoria to a quieter existence dealing with family medical problems in Tasmania. 
I am disappointed to see both Commonwealth and State governments artificially separate mental health services so widely from general health services, but time does not permit me to develop this theme. It is a field for Commonwealth initiative, which has not been taken, to integrate more and more the mental health services with the general health services. There should be a common use of facilities with mental institutions in close proximity to general health institutions. Instead, mental health institutions generally are in isolated areas far removed from general hospital facilities. Finally, while I am pleased that grants are made available for the States I do not believe that they have been used in an enlightened way. They have been used to preserve the old system instead of looking at new approaches in psycho-therapy. No real vision has been shown in using the new psycho-therapeutic methods to bring new concepts to institutions and systems of treatment. Therefore, the significance of the Commonwealth grants has not been as great as it should be in offering new hope, new ideas and greatly enlarged methods of treatment. The grants should be used to combat those things that delay the patient's return to the community. I refer to the need for the removal of social isolation, the dulling of family and public fears, the improvement of home conditions and day treatment, and the provision of employment for these persons. The lack of Commonwealth initiative must be condemned as much as the States' lack of vision. The type of amendment that has been moved by the Opposition is warranted. 
1 present (he following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate leaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the Slates for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
En jil re that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present  the  following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable: 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
In recent times there have been opportunities for debate on the differences in the general attitude of the Government and the Opposition to social services expenditure and the way in which it should be applied. One of the obvious things under this heading has been the increase in the roles seen for local government in the matter of social services, both from the point of view of the Government and from the point of view of the Opposition. I believe that the approaches in the 2 cases are quite different, but there is agreement that the local government level is very important because of its very close contact with the people concerned. So it is on several of these matters relative to local government in the social services field and the anomalies that crop up that I wish to spend the time at my disposal. 
The major portion of my electorate is covered by the city of Preston. One problem there is accommodation for the aged. The simplest thing to do is to quote a letter which I have received from the Town  Clerk  of the city of Preston. It reads: 
My Council has been giving consideration to a proposal to erect homes for elderly citizens of this municipality. 
Preliminary plans have been prepared for 22 units, the estimated cost . being $170,550, and it has also been hoped to incorporate a small hospital in the plans to cater for elderlies no longer capable of living on their own. 1 think this is a very wise plan that the Department of Social Services should encourage. The letter continues. 
U had been hoped to obtain Commonwealth assistance towards the cost of this project, under the Aged Persons Homes Act, but an inquiry to the Department of Social Services revealed that, if Council obtained loan funds to finance their proportion of the cost, no subsidy would be available. For your information, a copy of the letter is enclosed. 
Council is certainly nol in a position to finance a scheme such as this from revenue and feels that ratepayers should nol be expected to bear the entire cost involved. 
Then there is a request for me to seek assistance for them in this way. I think this puts the problem very succinctly. I appreciate that section 9. (l.)(b)(i) of the Aged Persons Homes Act amongst other things specifically excludes the subsidising of money borrowed by an applicant organisation to establish a home for the aged. One can appreciate why this occurs with private or charitable organisations. But it is very difficult to see why, with a local government organisation, the same system should apply. There are major problems in this field. Many municipalities are affected differently from others. To expect the cost to be met from revenue would indeed place a most unfair burden on the ratepayers. 1 trust that some consideration will be given to this matter. 
The same municipality of Preston raised the matter with me of rates payable by pensioners. I have had experience of age or invalid pensioners coming to my office in tears about the increases that have occurred in municipal rates. This occurred also when the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works rates went up by 15 per cent. This is one of the problems that must be associated with pensioners under the care of the Department of Social Services. I inquired of the Preston City Council how many pensioners there were in the city who were liable to pay rates. I received an answer as follows:  1 have no record of the number of pensioners in this city or of the number who are liable to pay rales. However, payment is deferred upon application by aged pensioners and an increased number is taking advantage of this concession. The present figures are - 

<graphic href="070131197010210_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

These figures relate to deferred payments. This represents quite a drain on a local government body having to give this sort of consideration to pensioners. I believe that other steps should be taken through the Department of Social Services to give these local government bodies further relief and further assistance in this way and so eliminate some of the very depressing effects on the pensioners. The Council of the city of Heidelberg approached me with regard to home help services. Here is another illustration of the widening involvement of local government in the social services which we are trying to give to the community. Perhaps this is not so much a concern of the Department, although it is intimately concerned with home help services. IT may be more a matter for the Treasury. The letter I received from the Town  Clerk  of the city of Heidelberg reads: 
In the main home help is only given to persons needing assistance upon the production of a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner and therefore it is submitted that expenses incurred for this type of service should be permitted as a deduction. 
One of the problems we find in the field of social services is that this sort of consideration is not given. The homes and hospitals for the aged are so inadequate and the fees charged in private institutions are so high that an aged or invalid pensioner cannot afford to meet the charges, and families are therefore expected to subsidise quite heavily the fees of pensioners in these institutions. The amounts may vary from $10 to $50 a week. This has to be found by families, often with heavy demands in raising children, buying homes and so on, for their elderly parents. They can receive no tax deduction for this. They are told that if that is allowed the pensions are then affected. These pensioners are supposed to be totally supported by the pensions that they are receiving. If the Minister can tell me how they can meet nursing home or hospital fees of the nature of $60 to $90 per week out of a pension of $15.50 per week, [ would be very interested to know. A large number of persons in this category are in the electorates of all honourable members. This is a real problem. I am speaking only of the sort of social services that the Government gives and perhaps some of the areas where it could think of giving relief to these elderly persons. 
Another matter that concerns me is whether the Department of Social Services in making its allocations for pensioners has taken any note of the type of assistance that States may give to pensioners. Over a number of years, the Victorian Government, through its Department of Social Welfare, has given assistance to families receiving Commonwealth pensions, such as widow's pensions and so on. In the past, on a number of occasions, when the rates of these pensions have been increased by, say, $1 per week, an equal amount has been cut off the supplementary assistance provided by the State. Victoria moved right out of the field of family assistance as from 30th September 1970. This move has caused quite a lot of distress amongst some of the persons so affected. I have had a number of them along to see me, giving me copies of these letters that they have received. I believe that even if not consciously notice has been taken of these payments by State governments. Perhaps even subconsciously there has been some knowledge of them. I believe that notice has been taken in determining amounts. It is to be deplored that State governments have taken this action. I believe that they have some responsibility, particularly in the family assistance field, for the provision of supplementary assistance because of the variation of expenses and variation of the facilities that are available. For example, the removal of this assistance in Victoria denies a number of other benefits such as dental treatment. I hope that the Department of Social Services will give this matter further consideration. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth. 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physioally and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth. 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions arefinding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with ACTU policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the attention of the Postmaster-General been directed to an article in the 'Australian!' of Thursday, 28th January last regarding a documentary film entitled 'The Quiet Mutiny' produced by Australian John Pilger? If so, was this documentary, which has been shown in all major countries except the United States of America and Australia,  offered  to the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Did the ABC reject it? If so, who made this decision and for what reasons? Is the author of the article correct in saying that it seems that 'Australian television channels are determined to withdraw from Vietnam ir advance of the troops'? 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  My colleagues already have outlined what we of the Australian Labor Party believe should be done in the field of social services. I wish to record my emphatic protest that pensions and social services are still a matter of handouts at election time or when the Government is in trouble. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  challenged members of the Opposition to stand and say what the Labor Party would do. That is what we have done tonight. We have set out a rational basis for social services, something which the Government has never been guilty of doing. Never at any stage during the expansion of its social services programme has it shown any sign of adopting a rational basis or any recognition that social services should be related to need. 
The paltry nature of the increase set out in this Bill has been indicated by my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who pointed out that it bears no relationship to the present need of the pensioners and that it has no fi ni basis on which it can be founded economically. The increase is a figure plucked out of the air at a time when this House was dealing with a censure motion and the Government was struggling for credibility. Tied to the increases set out in this amending Bill are promises by the Government of a review and a mors realistic approach. It is rather surprising that after 22 years the Government has finally got around to a realistic approach to social services. One cannot be overcome with admiration because at last it is going to do this. One can assume only that the Government at last is willing to try to devise a national superannuation scheme. Who knows; it may even tie it to a percentage of average weekly male earnings, a real figure. Of course it ridiculed the idea when my Party presented it at the 1969 elections. This included the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  who now finds it so practical a proposition. The honourable member for Mitchell does not find it so practical but his sole reason is that in the initial stages one would have to cover people who are actuarially undesirable. 
What a rational argument for trying to delay the introduction of such a scheme! After all, the Government opposed it at the last election. It is still the same team that contested the election - or claims to be. The present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  claims that the so-called mandate the former Prime Minister had is his mandate. He baulks at putting himself and his team to the jump. He knows that he has to show some apparent interest in people and not just in business interests. 
Cynical as the approach may be, he knows that it has to be done if the crumbling vote of his Party is to be prevented from breaking away further. 
Can we have confidence in a Minister for Social Services who has no appreciation of the improvement in world wide conditions in the last 20 years and who uses as a comparison the immediate postWorld War period. I was interested to hear from the honourable member for Mitchell that the present Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  was an adviser to the Treasurer of New South Wales. I would be fascinated to go back and see how the New South Wales budgets during that term coped with the situations. This post-war period which he uses as a base comparison was a time when this country had to sacrifice and work to make up for the ravages of war on our economy and the wastage of men and resources that occurs during such wars - men and resources that could have taken this nation to great heights in the 1940s if there had been no war. This is the base line he uses. What a practical application to the realities of time. 
However there has been a world wide increase in productivity and prosperity through advancing technology. More and more people have been getting a greater share of this prosperity; yet still there are many who do not get their fair share. To listen to the Government members hopefully awaiting the call for the next re-shuffle of Cabinet one would be led to believe that all this know-how, technology and discovery leading to this world wide prosperity started with them and resided in their performance. Never have they been able to accept the proposition that social services should be related to need. We are dealing with human beings. How can we accept that a little loving kindness is all that is needed, as was suggested by one honourable member recently? Let me quote the real feelings of people who are affected. Firstly I refer to a letter written by the Preston branch of the Combined Pensioners to the Prime Minister in October 1970. I remind those who have become confused by recent events that this was the immediate past Prime Minister. The letter states:   . .  Mr Bury  said he realised our helplessness, and considered it his duty to help us. He limited his help to 50c per week. Are we treated in such a manner because we cannot express our economic and other grievances militantly or in any physical way, but can only point out our distress and need for urgent assistance? 'The Affluent Society' and 'Qualities of living' mean nothing to us. We have no share in them. Discontinuance from 30th September 1970 of supplementary assistance for children in Victoria of parents receiving a full Commonwealth pension, including widows, means that over $219,000 will not be distributed amongst those children this year. The present and future is bleak and grim for these mothers and children. Have some consideration for these people and give the children something they have not, a chance in life, a chance to get out of a poverty stricken state, a chance to earn enough to avoid becoming part of the hard core of poverty to which they are condemned for life under their present circumstances. We beg you to put into effect the policies and put into effect those portions of your rethinking and election promises to those who are most in need. 
Does the present rise, of 50c a week alter those promises in any way? Does it help to lift any of these people out of the trough of despond and need, a need that affects children and will have effects in the succeeding generation? 
I remind honourable members of correspondence at the same time to the Minister for Social Services where they spoke of Professor Henderson's work and said: 
The reports of Professor Downing, the Harper and Nimmo reports and others have already shown the existence of shocking poverty and distress suffered by so many. Year after year these responsible investigations and reports are made again and again, but what remedial notice or action taken? The answer is very little, if anything. 
The long list of applications for assistance in many forms viz., housing, hospitalisation, rest homes domiciliary assistance, etc, continue to grow larger. In the case of Government subsidised hospital homes, applications have increased by 300 per cent but available beds by only 5 per cent. There are more than 5,000 applications lodged with these homes and similar conditions prevail in other social service fields. We have been taught that 'those who lead must also serve'. We call on you and your Government to 'serve', to show an appreciation of the situation and do something to relieve these people who are in the greatest need, those on the bottom rung of the ladder. 
They are the people who are most affected by this Government's attitude to social services. Government supporters are quite unable to appreciate the need for a rational basis for pensions. They view pensions as a handout, and not as a right. 
Let us consider the situation of the elderly, chronically ill. They may be able to get a bed in a public hospital for treatment in the acute phase, but only for a limited period. Where do they go then? State Government hospitals for the aged in Victoria have a waiting list of over 5,000 people, while their capacity is just over 4,000 beds. The honourable member for Griffith comments 'Garbage'. Four thousand beds are available for 5,000 chronically ill elderly persons. What does he expect them to do? Are they just to wait for 3 or 4 years, the ordinary waiting time, to get into those institutions? That is the time they can expect to wait. Of course, Government members, like the well known biblical character, with a characteristic motion of the hand can say: T wash my hands of the matter. It is the responsibility of the State.' These people may go to nursing homes. The benefits provided in nursing homes made the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  choke with emotion, and almost collapse, overcome with gratitude to his hero the Minister for Social Services. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  was much more cold blooded. He distributed this amongst all pensioners to show how much it increased their weekly total. What are these benefits? A basic fee of $14 a week for each patient is paid direct to the proprietor of the nursing home, and $21 a week for those who are medically classified as heavy nursing cases. In the main this classification is done at the desk in the Department and often disagrees with the patient's own medical practitioner's opinion. I am told by proprietors of such homes and by doctors who handle large numbers of these patients that only about one third of those who apply for this additional subsidy get it, and that the average duration of payment is about 6 to 8 weeks. 
Nursing home fees amount to $60 a week and upwards. If we take away the $14 we are left with $46 a week. If we take off, say, $15 of their pension - we ought to leave them with a few cents pocket money a week - there is still at least $31 to be found. The heavy nursing subsidy in some cases will reduce that figure to $10 a week. Where, oh where, does this $10 or $31 extra come from? Does it come from families who are already trying to raise young children and accept their responsibility to their elderly parents? What is the alternative? Where do these people go? In their admiration for their nursing home benefits, how does the Government see this picture? Have Government members, like myself and a number of other honourable members in this chamber, had to deal with these problems? Do they know of old people who are kept at home by their children who love them, even though they completely disorganise the household and lead to breakdowns of the mothers of the families and the disadvantage of children in those families. 
Another method of their disposal is for the medical practitioner, if he can find the slightest degree of senility or mental disturbance, to certify them for admission to a mental institution. Indeed, this is where many of them are. But I am falling into the same attitude as Government members and looking at things piecemeal. The Opposition's amendments plead for an overall look at the social services. Do they satisfy the needs across the board, for housing for the normal age pensioners, and then for the institutions for those who require graded services up to their terminal illnesses? Government members appear to think that the families of pensioners dodge their responsibilities. I challenge them to produce one shred of sociological or scientific evidence to support this. Recently during the preparation of a paper, which honourable members can read in the Medical Journal of Australia, I had occasion to check this. What evidence there is suggests the reverse, that there is a high sense of responsibility towards elderly persons in the community and that people greatly disadvantage themselves in catering for them. 
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to the realisation, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with organisations and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable to his dignity and to the free development of his personality. That is stated in article 22 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Does the Government accept the dignity of the individual under these circumstances? Where does this legislation show acceptance of the need for preservation of such dignity? Honourable members on the Government side have talked of the fringe benefits, but these fringe benefits make mendicants of people in this situation. If they received a proper rate of pension they could handle their needs with dignity instead of having to come as mendicants to receive concessions and so on. I believe all these things show a need for the appointment of a select committee to examine the scope of our social services. If the Government accepts the Universal Declaration on Human Rights it should drop its piecemeal attitude and adopt an overall social service plan related to the needs of the whole community. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. In his answer to the honourable member for Cook he raised the matter of specialist qualifications as being a factor considered in the admission of migrants. I ask the Minister: Has his Department or specially appointed committees made any progress in the matter of the recognition of professional and trade qualifications held by migrants, which have previously not been recognised in Australia? If so, in what trades and professions have conclusions been reached? If not, when can we expect a decision to be made on this matter? To what extent has the question of reciprocity of recognition affected decisions? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. What progress is being made by his Department with training and work opportunities for handicapped persons? Of what order, in general terms, is the back lag of persons awaiting assistance? Have any steps been taken to change the adverse attitude to epileptics taken inthe past by Government departments and private employers? 
I wish to make only passing reference to the States Grants (Pre-school Teachers Colleges) Bill. I must admit to some degree of agreement with the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  that on the question of a pre-school child the home is probably the best training place, but with the qualification that the home is economically and domestically stable. Unfortunately in many instances this does not apply. I welcome the additional money which will be made available for the training of pre-school teachers because I hope that they may help to solve some of the problems in our community today. These teachers may be used to staff creches which not only educate the children but care for them in other ways because there are special groups that require this help. I refer to special groups such as the deserted husband who is often in a dreadful position. He is left not only with young children to care for but often with very high debts, hire purchase and so on which his wife has left behind. Another group is the deserted wives, widows and unmarried mothers, all of whom often have to find sources of employment to be able to provide for their children and keep the family together. At present in many cases they have to use the private child minding centres which, in the main, are expensive and do not have adequately trained personnel. 
The other factor, of course, is that there is an increasing number of married women who, for their own economic need or because of their interest in following a trade or a job, wish to go out into employment. There is also an increasing demand by industry and institutions for the employment of married women. For example, in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  a large factory - Ericssons Pty Ltd - has found it necessary to set up a creche for the female employees because it needs the women in its work force and to attract them it must provide facilities for the children to be cared for. Hospitals are in much the same position in attracting married nursing staff back into nursing. I instance 2 hospitals in Victoria, the Alfred Hospital and the Preston and Northcote Community Hospital. In order to get adequate nursing staff, they have had to set up creches or pre-school centres. So in this sense the provision for training of a greater number of pre-school teachers will be a great help. 
I want to spend most of my time in this debate dealing with the question of technical training and the provisions of this Bill relating to funds for building and equipment for this training. Here I disagree with the honourable member for Denison who said that perhaps the debate on this should be deferred until some other time. I believe we should give to this Bill a great deal of importance, representing as it does the continuation of a scheme that started in 1964. We should look at it as it reflects a great deal of educational change which has been forced on governments and the community because of the rapid technological advancement taking place in the community today. I believe the honourable member for Denison outlined quite well some of the reasons for expansion. Indeed, he covered the affairs of his own State rather well, but I deplore his suggestion that only those of lower academic attainment should be those who go into the technical training scheme. I do not believe that this should be so. 1 believe there is a place for the intellectually able and that more and more of them should be taken into the technical stream. In fact, this sort of attitude on the part of educationists, particularly in the primary field, to divide them into 2 groups, those who intellectually attain and those who do not and then send them on to technical schools, has been one of the things that has held back the development of technical training. 
As one who has spent many voluntary man hours serving on technical, high school and university councils in the last 15 years I feel that I have some experience from which to speak. It is not my intention forcefully to criticise the Government. After all, it would only lay the blame on the States or the lack of trained technical teachers and there may be some validity in that argument. Rather I want to look at subjects relevant to, and ask appropriate qualitative questions on, matters of technical training and its expansion to which these grants may be applied and for which they may need to be increased in the future. These questions are meant to invoke these thoughts: How are the amounts of these grants determined? How do we know the basic information that will give us an idea of the needs of the States? How are the grants related to the needs? How are the needs determined? How do we know what amounts are necessary? 
I reiterate the quotation from the speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  The Minister said: 
In determining this level of assistance the Government has taken into account likely increased pressures on technical training facilities arising from demands of such schemes as retraining of married women and retraining of farmers displaced under the rural reconstruction scheme and from the public service and industry for higher technician courses, which could have an effect on the programme of the States. 
I would have thought that the words 'could have' were too mild. I think 'will have' is the term which is most appropriate and which should have been used. If we add to this the general quotation from the publication 'The Secondary School at Sixes and Sevens' it is relevant. It reads: 
In a real sense the secondary school has become an institution for holding adolescents until the labour market is ready to receive them. The technical society demands more mature and adaptable, if not more skilled entrants into the work force. 
While it may be held that the latter quotation applies particularly to high school more than to technical training, I would direct the attention of the House to the evidence of increased participation and retention of students in technical schools mentioned in the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Education in South Australia 1969-70. At page 59 it reads: 
. in other words, 70 per cent of the observed increase in the number of senior students aged 16-18 years is attributable to rising retention rates. 
Then on the following page it states: 
Technological progress is producing an industrial structure which requires an increasingly skilled and sophisticated work force; and employers are demanding higher educational standards of applicants for jobs. Schools are offering an increasing number of courses to suit the differing aptitudes, ability and needs of pupils. 
On page 66 of that report we see the differential in retention rates between high schools and technical schools. There is a vast difference between the two in that in 1964 from the 11th grade to the 12th grade the high school retained 39 per cent while the technical school retained only 3.6 per cent. Four years later the figure had risen to 50.3 per cent for high schools and 15.6 per cent for technical schools. I think this shows that the retention in technical schools is rising quite dramatically. The need for definite steps to alter the difference in retention rates between metropolitan and country schools, as shown in this report, is quite real. We may never remove this barrier because of the lack of large country industries, but by the use of residential accommodation which could bring small numbers of children from country areas for training and then send them back into the smaller industries which may exist, these grants will make a vast difference. 
The need for vocational training for dropouts and misfits is another factor that could be added to the need for technical training expansion. AH this indicates a rather wider range than one would believe the term technical training should be applied to, yet much of this is included, as was indicated by the Minister. At a State level - and as a former member of a State Parliament I am pleased to see this - the grants for the buildings and equipment necessary for the technical training do not require matching amounts from the States. There are instances where matching grants must be applied to preserve proper development. However, in this case the field is expanding so much in regard to persons requiring training and where the needs pressure from employers is constantly changing that I welcome the different schemes for development in the different States. A very flexible system is required in technical training to allow this flexibility and there is still much experimentation to be done in teaching as well as in the layout and design of buildings and the equipping of such buildings. It is a great pity that the recent Australiawide survey on needs in the fields of primary, secondary and teacher education did not include technical training or that an inquiry that dealt exclusively with this area was not held. It is relevant to these grants for a number of reasons. 
The Minister indicated that the conclusions of the Australian tripartite mission to study methods of training of skilled workers in Europe were under consideration. I suppose that language difficulties must arise here. He also commented that the Commonwealth, the States, employers and trade unions are discussing the possible action needed to improve the training of skilled workers who form such an important part of the Australian work force. This is important because there is a degree of conservatism in each of those organisations when it comes to retraining of specific groups, and particularly to recognition of skills and training acquired overseas. While I accept the Minister's statement that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  is much affected by these inquiries I feel also that the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  must have a continuing interest because of certain criteria his Department applies for admission. I must also raise the question why the accent is necessary only on the European migrant. What of the skilled nonEuropean migrant? What of the slow progress that is being made in the recognition of both overseas trade qualifications and profesisonal qualifications? 
Further questions on technical training must arise out of the reports of the various committees which sat during the 1950s and early 1960s which, amongst other things, indicated the need for more university places on the technical side. For example, Monash University was originally set up to give more training on the technological side in the faculties of science and engineering - even bearing the name Monash because of  Sir John  Monash's great contribution to technology in Victoria and, indeed, Australia - yet this university from its first intake in 1961 has had the overwhelming number of its students in the humanities courses. Did the increase in numbers desiring to do technical training either at diplomate or trade level cause this? Was it that more students and employers wanted training to be in narrower fields requiring developed technical skills? What is the answer? So far as is known there has been no serious study in this area. Is there a mechanism by which we can find out the answer to this question and others involving technical training? That many people desire narrower fields of training is not doubted. Unfortunately, in many areas provision is not made for them. 
Let me cite computer programming courses or sales courses that are run privately by snide operators at very high fees where the training is of low standard and insufficient for those trained by these crooks to get jobs. What numbers are involved? What numbers are wasting their time and money in these endeavours to get technical training? The retraining of married women and displaced farmers has been the proper subject for debate in the House in the past and is acknowledged as portion of the task these grants are meant to serve. What of the school dropout and social misfit? Has consideration been given to him in the expansion of technical training? I understand a seminar is to be held in Canberra shortly to discuss vocational training for these and other groups. I hope some of these technical training grants may be directed to their benefit. 
The federal law of the United States of America requires a certain percentage of physically handicapped people and dropouts to be employed, particularly by the larger corporations where the work force at each plant may be from 10,000 to 30,000-odd. We do not have plants approaching this size. So much of the responsibility must then reside with the Federal and State governments. The physically handicapped are trained and placed in employment separately from the technical training area. However, dropouts who are probably immature when they leave school may later acquire maturity for a variety of reasons - perhaps marriage may be one of them - and through efflux of time. We saw this in the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Training Scheme. So many men whose performance at school had been poor, given war service and 3 or 4 years more maturity, came back, matriculated and did excellent university courses. But this is looking at it on a higher level. Is h too late for them? There is need for % mechanism for training, and retraining. Perhaps the Commonwealth should look at its technical training grants in order to stimulate this. 1 did visit one large United States corporation which had this scheme going. The officers of the company and the medical officer, who had to examne these dropouts before they went in for their training, were very sceptical initially as to whether they could be brought back into technical training. They found that even very scruffy looking individuals who came in were providing an excellent source of semiskilled worker in the field after 6 to 8 weeks training. Residential accommodation may indeed be very important here for these dropouts. 
I hope that the States will give firm programmes to the Minister by the time the money for which provision is made in this Bill is available. I hope that the details of these programmes will be made available to the Parliament. If they are not made available formally, will the Minister agree to make a statement to the House when these programmes are confirmed? There are many other matters on which I would like to speak in dealing with this subject, but my time is fast expiring. I hope that these grants will be enlarged and continued in order to increase the scope of technical training. I hope that the grants will allow not only expansion but also innovation and experimentation, and that we will have an inquiry to ascertain what are the needs in this area. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least five million dollars immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills add medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he will be overseas when the next set of employment figures is released. Did he tell a Press conference in Canberra last week that these figures would contain a pleasant surprise? If so, will he give the House a preview of this pleasant surprise? If it is intended to vary in any way the statistical treatment given to the raw employment figures, will the Prime Minister outline the new procedures so as to avoid any suggestion that the next lot of figures are to be doctored? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectively sheweth: 
 That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedentedin modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
 That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament asembled. should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of$2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
So far my colleagues in this debate have spoken about industrial conditions in relation to employment figures and the way in which this section of Government functioning could be used to stimulate the economy. I wish to make a plea for a different group - the handicapped persons in the community. I believe that the Department of Labour and National Service must do more for these people if we are to give them the fullest opportunity for the fullest lives. I am stimulated to speak of this matter because of the recent handicapped persons employment policy campaign which is mentioned by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in a news release of 20th October 1971. In this release the Minister calls for further cooperation of employers in obtaining work for handicapped persons. I believe that this underlines one of the weaknesses in the attitude of the Government towards the employment of handicapped persons. I know that the Minister and his Department have an active interest in this matter. They have kept me informed of some of the steps which have been taken and they have been of great assistance with cases. But they are acting within very restricted bounds. Too much is left to voluntary bodies to school and to rehabilitate these handicapped persons under various categories. 
I shall illustrate with some examples that many people are not being brought effectively into the work force because their functioning is not well defined. For example, the Minister-' in his news release said that the Commonwealth Employment Service during last year helped 16,340 handicapped persons to obtain effective work. This is an excellent record. But how many of these handicapped persons exist? How many require assistance? Of course we do not know the answers. There is no requirement that they be reported or notified in any way. I hesitate to ask the Minister to go as far as the Demark Government has gone. In Denmark it is compulsory for persons with a mental or physical handicap to be actively reported by doctors, parents or relatives so that they may be offered the opportunity to undertake rehabilitatory work. I think these sorts of people should have a choice whether they accept social services benefits or rehabilitation. To obtain accurate figures we might need well spelt out legislation to determine the numbers with which we are dealing. Subsequent upon this news release employers were asked to adopt a policy. I have consulted the Minister and I seek the leave of the House to incorporate a statement of that policy in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
Policy which employers  are  asked to adopt (This policy was drafted by the Institute of Personnel Management (Australia) in association with the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled.) 
EMPLOYMENT OF HANDICAPPED PEOPLE 
It is our policy to include handicapped people in our work force. 
Each handicapped applicant will be assessed in terms of work ability. 
Advice will be sought from an industrial medical officer, a consultant in physical medicine and rehabilitation, or other authority if there is doubt as to the work capacity of a handicapped applicant. 
Modifications to equipment and facilities will be undertaken where practicable to suit handicapped applicants with due regard to the maintenance of safe working conditions. 
Handicapped people will be paid full wages foi the jobs they perform, in accordance with the appropriate award, determination or agreement. 
Handicapped people will be given the same consideration as other employees for continuity and security of work and .for advancement opportunities. 
Management will constantly strive to achieve an understanding and genuine application of this policy by all who participate in the engagement, placement and supervision of employees. 
A number of points arise from this statement because while it spells out a policy for handicapped persons it does so only as to a voluntary basis. 
If we examine what has happened elsewhere, we find that much more legislative action is needed from the Government. It is my understanding that in the United States there is a requirement that corporations of a certain size employ up to 5 per cent of handicapped persons in their work force. In this way handicapped persons are given the opportunity to earn a reasonable wage and to live reasonably. The policy which I hive just mentioned sets out that there should be an assessment of a worker's suitability to carry out a job. I believe that there is also a need for an assessment of the jobs that are available. I have moved around quite a deal in industry. I have worked in industry from being a storeman to being an industrial medical officer. I have seen how little analysis of job requirements is done and how little is done for handicapped persons, except in the case of the really large corporations. I think that the Department could take up the question of job analysis, the various procedures carried out and whether those jobs are suitable for persons with certain disabilities, on a much wider range than just the obvious. ones that the larger corporations will cater for. 
There is a need for the provision of aids and prostheses for handicapped ' persons. We do not even envisage going as far as Denmark, for example. I mention Denmark only as one of a group of countries in which efforts are made to provide an effective help to persons who cannot by themselves find a place in the working community so as to enable them to earn a living insofar as their mental and physical capabilities permit. This assistance goes as far as the testing of a disabled person's working capacity with a view to assessing bis capacity for education,  vocational training and retraining and the purchase of tools, machines and other aids for vocational re-establishment. It is not only that countries such as Denmark supply this assistance; they will supply any machines and physical aids needed to get people on their feet. 
I would like to give one example of this. There are 2 groups of persons who make up chronic kidney disease sufferers who need severe treatment. One group of sufferers require kidney grafts and dialysis units to keep them alive. The second group of sufferers is made up of people who are not suitable for grafts at all. But, by using home dialysis units, these people can get themselves to a state of health in which they have 75 per cent to 80 per cent of their normal work capacity. I believe it is very important that they should be able to do this. I mention this example because 1 believe that often we forget about these 2 groups of people. The medical profession has calculated that there are 150 such persons in Victoria, and that' of these only 4 each year can receive a home dialysis machine which allows them to go back to their vocation and to make their contribution to society, as they wish to do. 
The reason why machines are given to only 4 of the 150 sufferers of kidney disease each year is that the Commonwealth, and State governments will not take up their responsibility in this matter. The only help these people have received from the Commonwealth Government is that it has placed renal dialysis fluid on the free list. As I have said, dialysis units can return these people to work. A central unit is needed. Yet, at the moment, the only work being done on the. provision of these units is being done by individual hospitals without special assistance and without special guides from the Government. The supply of these machines has been left to a voluntary organisation which has now accepted this as an Australia-wide project. I refer to the Lions organisation, which also aims to increase the. number of sufferers trained to use dialysis machines. The shocking thing is that even with the work that is being done by voluntary organisations, if another 10 machines were added to the 4 units already available in my State of Victoria there would still be 150 persons not able to be helped. I regret that in the short time available to me I am unable to speak of the other groups - the amputees, the epileptics, the multiple sclerotics, the diabetics, those suffering severely after industrial accidents - all of whom need much more help through legislative means than they are at present gaining through the well-meaning voluntary attempts of the Minister and his Department. (Quorum formed.) 
and his officers to any inquiries an honourable member makes. However, the answers I have received in relation to the exorbitant accounts that some individuals in the community are receiving are not convincing. These accounts suddenly double or treble. The people receiving such accounts might be only pensioners who infrequently use the telephone and yet suddenly find themselves faced with astronomical accounts. The answer I receive from the Department usually is that the metering equipment has been checked and has been found accurate. Usually there is an explanation of the functioning of subscriber trunk dialling and it is suggested that perhaps these people have forgotten some interstate calls. This sort of answer usually comes from  deputy  directors, directors, and the Postmaster-General himself. 
Just the other day I received a letter, which I intend to read, from a  Mr A.  E. James, of ISO Waiora Road, Rosanna. It  states: 
Re Telephone No. 45-4345 Acc. No. 305-261151-1. 
Dear  Sir, 
I wish to bring to your attention a matter that is most unsatisfactory. Our telephone account at our private residence has run for many years at around the $60-70 per half year. In the period to November 1970 we received an account for $190.10, which we complained about very strongly. 
During the early part of January we were away on holidays and on the night we returned home we received a call from the PMG saying that they had been running a test on our phone over the previous 2 weeks and it had been metering at the same rate as charged in the account. How could this be when no-one had access to the house during the period we were away? 
Subsequently we received an account for the following 6 month period for an amount of $196.39 which we again complained about and to date we have paid neither of the accounts although I am willing to pay for the calls we have made but not for these 2 outrageous accounts. 
We are not home very much and to make the number of calls claimed and charged for would be a full time job, 7 days a week. We, in fact, seldom use the phone during the weekend. 1 have been keeping a tally of our business phone calls which average less than 10 calls a day and yet our private phone was supposed to be used for over 20 calls per day 7 days per week. Considering my wife works and seldom phones anyone and that at other times we have been away for several weeks the charges are totally unsatisfactory. 
We also have reason to believe that our phone has been tapped, a fact which PMG technicians admit could make the meter run wild. We have also been told that technicians could pick up a pair of wires in the street and dial anywhere on STD and we could be charged accordingly. 
Trusting you can help in this matter. 
Yours faithfully, 
E. James 
I have not yet made inquiries into this case because I knew this debate was coming up and I had received answers to similar complaints. Even if we forget the last 2 paragraphs of that letter and just take the period when they were away on holidays and no-one had access to their home, they were informed by the Department that their telephone was metering at the same rate as on the account. I feel that this, with the complaints I am receiving, makes the answers I have received unsatisfactory with regard to the metering and computer accounting. I accept that the technicians and others in the Department are honestly trying to check the equipment, but there seems to be some inherent bug of some sort. Gremlins used to be the bane of the Air Force during World War IT and I think there is something like a gremlin somewhere in this metering equipment on subscriber trunk dialling and in the computer accounting. This is something that should be looked into - a complete reassessment of the metering systems and the computerised accounting system - to see why these things are occurring. I cannot accept the answers T am receiving. 
Secondly. I should like to add my plea to that of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  who indicated that it might be a suitable time now for a White Paper to be produced on the future of the Postmaster-General's Department so that we can have a debate on it. I am reinforced in pushing this forward because at the recent InterParliamentary Union conference in Paris there was a resolution dealing with communication satellites and their use for educational and other purposes between countries. The Department was kind enough to give me a great deal of information on this. I have visited the Goddard Space Station in Greenbelt, Maryland, where many of these communications satellites have been assembled, so I have had a fair chance to look at this matter. My concern is not so much with the technical matters as with the international agreements and how communication satellites can be effectively controlled to provide between the countries of the world programmes that will lead to better international relations. I think this is another matter for inquiry, together with this general outline of the future of the Postmaster-General's Department, and could well be included in such a White Paper instead of just becoming the subject of a pious resolution passed by well-meaning parliamentarians from several countries at an Inter-Parliamentary Union conference. 
The third matter is that of postage rates for free distribution newspapers. The complaint I have received is from the Leader Publishing Co., which has its headquarters in Northcote but which distributes its newspaper through a large area of the northern suburbs of Melbourne. It believes that the Department is showing a discriminatory attitude in the postage rates for free distribution newspapers. At present it costs the company 18c to send by post a single copy of a free local newspaper. I believe the Department fears that if the postage rate for these newspapers is made much cheaper this postal system will be used totally to distribute the newspaper. But as the delivery boy system costs only a fraction of PMG costs - it is less than lc for each paper - this does not stand up to examination. 
In fact these free distribution newspapers, which are free because of economic circumstances and because it is easier to run them on advertisements than on subscriptions, are being discriminated against and the postal rates charged for their delivery are unjust. 1 would like the PostmasterGeneral to give some thought to the fact that there are legitimate free distribution local newspapers which are unfairly affected by postal rates. Only a fraction of their circulation is distributed by mail, the rest being distributed locally. They give people news of local happenings. I would like to speak much more on this 
Department. I hope that the PostmasterGeneral will take some notice of what I have said. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Was the right honourable gentleman correctly reported as telling a Press conference in Honolulu on 15th November that, following the decision of the High Court of Australia in the concrete pipes case, he felt a federal securities and exchange commission would be more appropriate than the establishment of such a commission in each State? Is that in contrast with the preference he indicated for the latter system on 16th October 1968 in answer to. a question? Did the right honourable gentleman say at that Press conference that it remained only for the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange to recommend the structure and powers of such a commission? Finally, as be expressed more than 3 years ago a sense of urgency in relation to that matter and as on his recent overseas visit he must have observed the damage caused to Australia's international standing by successive stock market scandals - 
I would like to make a few brief comments in support of the amendment that has been moved on behalf of the Opposition and 1 do so because of the comments of tha Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in regard to the renewal of licences for radio stations during the time of the Labor administration. He said that there were no changes then and no call for this regular review of licences. In a recent discussion at the Inter-parliamentary Union Conference the subject of the changing function of the mass media of radio and television was raised and debated for a considerable time. Of course, the emphasis was placed on the rapid change that is taking place and the rapid change that was necessary in the attitudes of stations actually transmitting under regulations or Acts such as these that we are now discussing. Various points were made about the aspect of content that the Minister and others referred to which must be examined by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  has particularly commented on advertising and the question of Australian content of programmes. 
If licences under this section come up for renewal after a period of 3 years it may be that other factors in relation to the requirements for the renewal of licences will have to be examined. Even in the public interest one might find that it is not just ratbags in the community who are interested in how a particular station applying for renewal of its licence is handling its affairs but a number of interested groups who are realising more and more the power of the media and the wide range of subjects which may be raised not only at national or local level but also at international level. They want to know how the licensees are adjusting to the changes that are taking place. They want to know about the possibility of agreements that may be made between countries and the necessity for these advantages to be passed on to those in the viewing or listening area of a particular station. So rapid is the change that is indicated under these circumstances that if 3 years is to be the interval it is only fair that there be a full and open inquiry before the renewal of licences. I came into the debate briefly to indicate this tendency which is rolling on not only in Australia but also in many other countries, and the concern that is being expressed. If 3 years is to be the maximum term we should accept the amendment that has been moved and allow a full and open discussion, not because people with a particular barrow to push are in there for the public interest but because groups who are interested in the subjects that come under the requirements for renewal of licences wish to base submissions on these rapid changes that are taking place both at home and abroad. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Services been drawn to the inadequacy of services in Victoria for the treatment and rehabilitation of patients suffering spinal injuries, particularly paraplegics and quadraplegics? These injuries occur largely as the result of road accidents. Does his Department play any part in the rehabilitation of sufferers from such injuries? If so, is his Department able to offer facilities which will cover these reported inadequacies? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', 
Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human personlanguishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The ministerial statement and its accompanying White Paper on defence have allowed what has been rather a wide ranging debate on this subject, a debate that has covered the environment in which Australia finds itself, the forces and equipment that Australia has and is likely to need, and the forward planning for the next decade or so. During this debate there have been well defined disagreements between the Government and the Opposition on outlook, but the debate itself has been rather more dispassionate than defence debates have been for some time. 1 believe this is so because the Government has finally got itself out of the senseless involvement in Vietnam and because, as is stated in the White Paper, contingencies under which a major combat burden would occur seem at present to be remote, and the full capabilities that would be required for this extreme contingency are not required to be in existence today. In other words, the debate is being held in an atmosphere in which it is assumed that Australia looks forward to a sustained period of home service for its armed services, with the qualifications that have been given by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  in certain areas. 
It is not my intention to range over the wide area that has been covered. Rather I would prefer to restrict myself to the narrower field of manpower and recruitment for the Australian armed services. Here is one of the clearly defined differences between the Government's outlook and the Opposition's outlook. The Government places its reliance for the maintenance of its forces on selective conscription whereas the Opposition states quite clearly its opposition to conscription in any form and its intention when the opportunity arises to have completely volunteer services. Taking this into consideration, there are 3 things we must look at. The Minister stated that the regular army strength would need to be maintained in the vicinity of 40,000 and that, in the present circumstances, this strength could be sustained only by the retention of the national service scheme - Q.E.D. There was no further discussion or justification for that statement. Then we had the statement of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  In a clear exposition of his views last night he said that we must have national service because the volunteer army was the dream of academics who did not know what they were talking about and that national service was essential for reserves. 
It is stated in the White Paper that for the Government's planned permanent forces 'manpower reserve backing for the forces, comprising CMF, emergency reserves and other categories (including former national servicemen) current total 7630.' In paragraph 41 of the White Paper it is stated as follows: 
In the event of a national emergency, the ground forces would have available the reserve of trained manpower, created by the National Service Scheme, the ex-Regular Army personnel and the Citizens' Military Forces. la combination, these elements total some 63,000 and would significantly assist and expedite the preparation of  additional  formations and units for deployment. 
So the subjects to consider are the supply of the permanent forces and the supply of this manpower reserve bank. I will take them in their reverse order. I do not accept that the presence of bodies on the reserve means that that is the capability for manpower backing. I believe that this is the error in using that as an argument for selective conscription. I know that over the years one of my well respected colleagues the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has repeatedly spoken on the matter of reserve forces and volunteer reserves. He has pointed out that it is useless having ex-regular army personnel or ex-CMF personnel merely listed on the reserve and not having any opportunity to develop their capabilities. Nor is it any use having Citizen Military Forces, which are the poor relations and which are not adequately trained. In the 'Washington Post' of 26th March 1972 there is a small paragraph which says: 
National Guard gets 4 squadrons of jets. The Air Force yesterday handed the National Guard a  substantially  increased responsibility for defending the United States against possible bomber attack. It ordered the transfer of 4 squadrons of F-106 jet  interceptor  planes to the Massachusetts. New 
Jersey, Michigan and Montana Air Guard. This means that when the shift is completed in about a year, the Air Guard will man 20 of the 27 squadrons assigned to guard this country- 
That is the United States - against enemy bombers. 
It goes on further to say: 
The greater role of the Air National Guard in frontline defense of the continental United States is in line with the policy of Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird to place heavier reliance on the nation's reserve forces. 
With the approaching end of the Vietnam war, the Pentagon is bringing Air Guard equipment up toward the level of the Regular Air Force. It is possible there but it is not possible here, apparently, to have this sort of reserve force or capability in any of the services able to take over a real defence role. If they are just there as a listing or a reserve they will not be available for rapid use in case of national emergency. They will not be available for months. My period of service in the Citizen Military Forces occurred a few years ago but I believe that a number of criticisms that applied then apply now. 
The criticisms which applied then apply now. The Citizen Military Forces are considered to be very much the poor relation of the Services; that the equipment that is provided is antiquated and inadequate; that there are insufficient reserves, and that the ordinary ranks in the Citizen Military Forces are unfortunately placed in a position where they are playing at, rather than learning, skills in the Services. They leave after their period of service little better equipped than when they went in. The officers in the CMF are better off than the ordinary ranks because largely they have entered the Service either with previous Army training or with special arms skills for which they are admitted to that Service. However, unless we improve their pay and conditions of service and unless we so equip the Citizen Military Forces as to enable them to learn skills, we will not have a proper reserve backing. In that respect it might be as well if we considered the role of the regular Services in assisting in the training of these reserves and whether in fact we should expect a higher concentration of Regular Army officers and staff to be in the CMF units so that there will be proper preparation and training in order that the units would be available fairly rapidly as a reserve force if they were needed. 
To return to the first matter, namely, a conscript army as opposed to a volunteer army, here we come upon much more basic arguments. As I have said, the Opposition challenges the concept that it is necessary to have conscriptionto fill the Permanent Military Forces. 
The Australian Permanent Forces. The principal discussion on this subject, of course, has been so involved with the Vietnam war and the question of civil liberties. Although these aspects are ones to which I give only passing reference, the very nature of the Vietnam involvement mitigated against raising a volunteer army. The reasons for involvement in that war were unconvincing and repugnant to most young men. Ask why Australia could obtain a volunteer force a decade or so earlier for the Korean conflict, which was under the auspices of the United Nations, and yet not obtain volunteer forces for service in the more recent involvement. 
Surely the work done by the committee of inquiry headed by  Mr Justice  Kerr into the fundamental conditions of service in the forces would have indicated the need for an explanation by the Minister for Defence of his attitude towards a regular volunteer army and even a comment in the White Paper on this aspect of volunteer forces. There are plenty of overseas experiences from which to draw. Other countries such as Sweden, Britain, Canada and so on have been mentioned by my colleagues. We take due note of the defence attitudes of the United States in just about every field. What notice have we taken of the very substantial examination the United Slates has made of the volunteer army since  President  Nixon planned to end the draft and recruit an army of volunteers? This occurred in a country which has been accustomed to the draft for a very long time. 
If we disregard the question whether voluntary action is better than forced action, we then come down to the matter of costs andthe matter of quality. The criticisms of a volunteer army involve a number of points. The doubters say that there is a difficulty in maintaining a high quality army under present standards, and thatthe liberalisation of army life would lead la dangerous breakdowns of battlefield discipline. Assertions have been made that even with higher pay, a volunteer army would attract only the poor. Unfortunately, 1 do not have time to examine in depth the suggestion that a volunteer army is too expensive a proposition to achieve satisfactory recruitment, because there are arguments against that point of view. While there might be an essentially higher pay roll, against this there is the lower real cost of a volunteer army to society as a whole. We find that it is not only a matter of equating the smaller real cost to society as a whole against the higher pay roll, but also of how the load is distributed throughout the community. There is no doubt that when one relies on national service, one is placing a much higher burden of cost on a small portion of the community instead of distributing it fairly throughout the community. 1 regret that I cannot take this mailer further in the time that has been allocated to me. I, perhaps, am one of those academics who has had some military experience and who believes that there is a possibility that a volunteer army can be obtained. 1 believe that the Minister for Defence should at least have asked in his statement or in the White Paper for an examination and an explanation of the pros and cons of a volunteer army. He did not do so. It is to be regretted that it has not been done. To me his statement and the White Paper are a disappointment and in no way convince me that the Opposition is not correct in sticking to its point of view that volunteer defence forces will serve Australia in the future and serve it well. 
I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has given to this House a good analysis of the grants that are made available in these types of Bills, how the money is applied and the conditions that apply to them. The honourable member, like myself, is a former member of a State parliament and he knows only too well what it is like to look at the problem from the other end. Having entered this debate at short notice, I cannot offer the analysis of loans and grants which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was able to put, but one of the things that are striking, if one looks at the variety of purposes for which these grants and loan moneys are used, is the very diversity of them. I noticed a question from a former colleague of mine in the Victorian Parliament in which he asked, in regard to these State grants, special financial assistance grants, emergency grants and the actual tax reimbursements, about the variety of purposes for which these moneys could be used. In essence the reply covered some 2 foolscap pages. 
When one gets such a diversity of uses for States grants moneys one also gets a diversity of excuses for inaction. I was pleased to read that the Premiers went away from the recent Premiers Conference warmly welcoming the amounts that were given to them, but that becomes rather inconsistent when one looks at some of the problems that confront the States because of the rigidity imposed upon them by these grants. Rather than quote from political sources, I wish to quote a comment that was made by a leading Melbourne surgeon in talking of the road toll. The comment appeared in an article in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' of 1st April this year. In talking of the road toll he said: 
There has developed a frightening, permanent epidemic, resulting in the loss of 10 Australian lives each day and a similar number surviving with catastrophic injuries, more than half of them under 30 years of age. 
Honourable members may wonder at the relevance of that quotation. He then went on to point out the following: 
At the political level, the College- 
That is, the Royal Australian College of Surgeons - discovered that this crisis has become a defenceless, non-combatant casualty In the complicated Commonwealth-State status struggle, which ls strangling the efforts of Australians for advancement. After 2 centuries of their own energetic efforts, supplemented by the recent fortuitous discovery of valuable natural resources, they deserve a much better way of life than has been accomplished so far. The fight between Canberra centralist and State federalist philosophies is frustrating the sincere and energetic attempts of research workers in the field of road crash prevention to have their recommended countermeasures implemented. As a result, the public servants of the 3 levels of government have become, subliminally conditioned to dispose of the problems of road safely administration into the 'too hard* basket. 
That is a rather damning statement with regard to these agreements. It refers to one problem in particular, but it also refers to the fact that when these things are discussed the Commonwealth will wash its hands of the problem and say: 'That is a State responsibility' and the States will say: The grants we receive from the Commonwealth are quite insufficient for us to be able to carry out the practical work in respect to roads, in respect to the safety devices required in cars, in respect to policing the various regulations that apply' and so on. So we have that in-built argument going on all the time. As the honour able member for Melbourne Ports indicated with regard to the actual amounts and the interest payments involved, there is a need for a review of the financial relationships between the States and the Commonwealth and a need for a review of the relationships that are discussed at the Premiers Conference. Perhaps there would be great virtue in the suggestion that a constitutional convention be held by the Commonwealth and the States. Perhaps that could offer some solutions. I feel, however, that it could develop into a parochial dog fight. 
In the closing stages of his address the honourable member for Melbourne Ports talked of the problems throughout the world of urban planning and of the necessity for grants for public works, particularly in the urban areas. Public works have been defined by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  as including hospitals, schools, water, sewerage projects and the like. The urban areas are facing the real problems of today. It is these areas that suffer most from the failure of the 2 levels of government to agree. It is a shocking thing that one is able to pick up a newspaper in one of our capital cities - I refer to the Melbourne 'Herald' of Friday, 24th March - and read this heading: 'Yarra "a sewer" says Rossiter'.  Mr Rossiter  happens to be the Minister for Health in the Victorian Parliament. On his own admission he is sure that he would never allow his grandchildren to swim in the Yarra. I am sure that that might concern one of the Ministers in this House. He said that until all the areas east of Doncaster and north of North Balwyn are sewered there will continue to be a heavy concentration of bacteria in the water. He said that all the Health Department in that State could do about it was warn people not to drink the water or swim in it. The area he was talking about as needing sewerage to combat that problem is within a 10-mile radius of the centre of the city of Melbourne. After years of development the Slate Government has not had the finance available to it to do work which would prevent this pollution occurring. Even worse than that is the fact that such pollution spreads further up the river to its source. 
If we are to use these moneys in the urban areas we need a clear incentive to plan and provide for housing and all the services associated with it so that such risks do not develop. I think it is fairly accepted that a reasonable definition of pollution would be the addition by man of detectable amounts of deleterious substances to air, land and water. That is one of the responsibilities that the State must accept. Despite the fact that this, money is being applied to water and sewerage projects in the second largest city in the Commonwealth the needs have not been met. Indeed not only have they not been met but also a dangerous situation has been allowed to develop. One of the problems that the Commonwealth and the States have to solve in their financial relations is what has to be done for the future. How are cities to be planned? How is decentralisation to be promoted by the use of these State grants for the development of housing and all the attendant things that go with it. If one were to consider the application of these moneys to hospitals in the community one would find that the same thing is happening. The Premiers go away from the Premiers Conference supposedly satisfied with what the Commonwealth has given them in the way of States grants and loan assistance and the Commonwealth says that it has done its job. Yet we find that the construction of hospitals, the training of medical students and accommodation for patients is lagging well behind. 
The University of Melbourne has had to suspend future planning on the development of clinical facilities. That suspension has been ordered for 2 reasons - firstly, the lack of adequate finance to the University as a whole and, secondly, the lack of a decision by the Commonwealth Government to pay for clinical teaching carried out by hospital personnel. Unless grants can be applied to these purposes, the community will be faced with 2 problems: Firstly, a lack of facilities in the way of physical buildings for the training of appropriate doctors to man the health services and, secondly, a lack of appropriate buildings to accommodate sick persons. This is further potentiated by the fact that, while there is on the list a variety of areas where Commonwealth finance is used by the States, the hospitals in Victoria will have a combined deficit of $10m this year. That will be the deficit for one year alone. Heaven knows what would be the total deficit over the last few years. We have further demands, as will occur with any developing community, for further educational train ing of people in institutions that are not the normal education institutions. The training of nurses in hospitals is an example. At present there are plans - there are certainly plans in Victoria and I believe that the attitude is spreading in Australia - to increase the curriculum for nurses to 1,600 hours total training. This in itself is more than double what they have done in the past. Here again the Commonwealth is blamed for not providing sufficient money to allow this training to take place, and the State washes its hands of responsibility on these grounds. 
Recently I was present at the opening of a further extension to a mentally retarded children's centre where the older children were able to work in a sheltered workshop. The State Minister who was present said that the provision of such facilities cannot cope with the demand unless the Commonwealth is able to meet the further requirements of the States. So there is another area where people suffer, as  Mr Grayton  Brown said in the statement in the 'Medical Journal of Australia', because of this complicated Commonwealth-State struggle. These illustrations make it clear that it is well past the time when we can be satisfied with the form of the Premiers Conference, the form of discussion that takes place and the form of the States Grants Bills that are brought down to allow State governments to carry out their responsibilities. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned tied grants. There should be no real requirement for these. When the States are given money for a specific purpose they should accept responsibility to carry out those works. The danger is that if a tied grant is made for development work the State will not make any further effort beyond that allowed for by the Commonwealth. This has been highlighted in recent years, in my State at any rate, with the development of universities and institutes for tertiary education. The State will match the grants given by the Commonwealth but will bear no more. It applies the same principle to other matching grants. The initiative has gone in the development of essential facilities in the community. 
Insufficient provision is made for scholars in tertiary education. Indeed I think we should consider the nurses who require the nursing educational units and the increased hours of training as tertiary students. We are failing to assist persons in the community because we fail to face up to a different attitude to the provision of State grants. The situation becomes even worse at the local government level. Local government is the defenceless section of our 3-tiered system of government. The arguments that the Commonwealth and State governments have about the provision of money for hospitals, facilities for training, road safety measures, measures against pollution, sewerage and all the rest that man wants from his environment nowadays, are 10 times worse in the field of local government and the finance that is channelled through the States to assist local government bodies. 
So in addressing myself to the States Grants Bill I have not attempted to analyse the financial implications of what is contained in this kind of Bill, but I have tried to indicate that it is all very well to talk about what these increased loan funds and capital will do. It is all very well to say that they will enable works to be carried out on hospitals, schools, water, sewerage projects and the like, but this kind of Bill completely ignores the requirements of the growing community that must be met by the States. Responsibility must be accepted by the Commonwealth, and there must be a reassessment of the relationships between the Commonwealth and State governments and the nature of the grants and loans that are given if we are effectively to plan our community for the benefit of man and see that we all receive a reasonable share of the community wealth and enjoyment as we should. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is a report in today's Press of the recent birth in Sydney of a baby without limbs correct? If so, are officers of the Department of Health investigating this case? If so, when may a report be expected as to whether any therapeutic substance taken by the mother may have been a causal agent? Finally, does the Commonwealth Department of Health play any monitoring role in the release of new therapeutic agents in Australia, particularly regarding the adequacy of clinical trials before such releases? 
It is always a pleasure to speak in the same debate as my colleague, the irrepressible, wise and experienced honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  However, on this occasion I feel that I have to chide him for his rather uncharitable and harsh remarks about the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and his criticism of the Prime Minister's lack of ability to govern the country. In reading the Perth 'Sunday Independent' of last Sunday I found that the Prime Minister's needs are quite simple. The headline reads: 'Give me a fair go - McMahon's plea'. The article reads as follows: 
In an interview telecast by Channels 3 and 9 last night  Mr McMahon  made an appeal to voters to give him a fair go. 
By the time the election comes around I think people will say: " Fair go, mate. Give him a chance ". 
This is the most difficult period I have faced in my political life. 
But we look to the future with a great deal of confidence provided we get a go,' he said. 
The honourable member for Grayndler obviously misjudged the Prime Minister. After all, he has only had 21 years as a member of the Ministry. He has only carried a number of portfolios during that time. After 20 years in the Ministry he has only just become the Prime Minister. And with all that experience and with all the mess he has got the country into in the few months that he has been the Prime Minister, he still only wants a fair go. Surely it is the people of Australia who need a fair go. This Appropriation Bill gives some examples of why they need that fair go. 
My colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  pointed out that the necessity for this Appropriation Bill was not only changed circumstances in various instances but also the continuing erosion of money values and the continuing erosion of what can be bought for a given amount. This must be faced fairly and squarely by the Government. It is the Government's responsibility. The Government is responsible for lack of planning. I respect the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  in his appeal for more foreign aid for Bangladesh. I did not visit Bangladesh, as he did, last year but I visited 
India. The squalor and poverty that one sees there, with the teeming millions, tears at the heartstrings and beggars description. I have no doubt that his appeal for further assistance should be heeded, but he says that the Government should take note of needs when determining this. I sat in the same State Parliament as the honourable member for Holt and I know that over a period of 12 years he made the same appeals foi foreign aid there to a Liberal State Government as he has made over almost the last 3 years in the Federal Parliament to a Federal Government, which is partly a Liberal Party Government, to which he belongs. I know just how little success he has had in having the needs of these people satisfied. Perhaps the message given to him by the honourable member for Grayndler is a wise one. If after 15 years he can see little for his efforts from the governments which he has supported, it is about time he did a bit of rethinking about supporting the Government. 
I believe that such needs apply not only to foreign aid but also to a number of other areas in this country. There are certain amounts in these Appropriation Bills which give a lead to the needs that exist for further expenditure. I have selected some of them. Even the extra appropriations go nowhere near to solving or even starting to solve the problems that exist. One of these great areas of need is education, particularly educational research. We find that in Appropriation Bill (No. 4) the contribution for research into pre-school education has more than doubled. The amount appropriated under the Budget was $3,400, to which there is now added $3,600, making a princely sum of $7,000 for the year. In fact, it is $229 more than for the previous financial year. What is the extent of the research into this field? The areas of research are many and varied, but no research is needed to know that the pre-school stage is a time when the child has a great potential for learning. It is a period that is vital to intellectual development. Absence of preschool education leads to educational deprivation in later years. Yet there has been little research into the need for the provision of pre-school centres and to ' ascertain whether these provisions are more desirable than allowing such education in the home. 
Research is needed into the potential numbers that exist in varying areas or districts which need such facilities. Such research cannot be left to the States. On 18th April this year one Victorian State Minister, when asked what were the facilities in a given electoral province in his State, said that 48 centres existed giving places for 2,586 children. Yet he had to add that it would not be possible to assess the total need for day care in any area even if the total number of children of appropriate ages were known. What is more, his whole attitude was that such research would not be carried out to find out the numbers and the need. If the 1966 figures for that electoral province - Melbourne West - are taken, one sees that there were 13,000 3-year-olds and 4-year-olds at that time. So only 20 per cent of them could get pre-school places. In the 6 years that have passed, that population has increased and so the situation is worse. If such research is to be carried out, the Commonwealth needs to give a much greater financial stimulus. It is a tragedy that the percentage of 1971 prep-graders in Victorian metropolitan schools who have had such pre-school education should vary from 2 per cent in some schools to 80 per cent in others. If research is not needed to pinpoint the causes of such inequities, how will the answer ever be obtained? 
This Appropriation Bill further increases the appropriation for migrant education on the basis that the increased appropriation will allow some expansion of the migrant education programme. It has been pointed out in the accompanying documents that there has been some saving in the migrant education service due to less expenditure on p re-embarkation and shipboard . instruction and in the full time intensive English language course. An Australian Council for Educational Research study showed that only 26 per cent of non-English speaking 3 and 4 year olds attended pre-school centres compared with 49 per cent of other migrants and 70 per cent of Australians. So in what area is it more important that there should be an increased appropriation for migrant education? Further on this matter of migrant education in English,' it must be becoming more and more evident that crash courses- in English are not enough. It is obvious also that certain areas carry a heavier load of migrants and have  a  higher need for migrant education. In this respect I quote from a paper delivered by  Mr Tom  Roper of the Centre of Urban Education, School of Education, La Trobe University, at a seminar in Melbourne last Sunday. He said: 
All western municipalities have a higher percentage of migrant residents and non-English speaking migrants than does Melbourne as a whole. 
Then follows a table which I have shown to the Minister at the table. I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
I do not wish to delay the Committee for any length of time, but I feel that the comments of the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  require some rebuttal. I realise that he has served on the staff of a university, but other members of this Parliament have had experience at universities both on the staff and on university councils. I was concerned with the handling of the Bill that provided for the enlargement of Monash University Council, the Bill that set up the La Trobe University and the Bill that set up the Council of the Victorian Institute of Colleges. A lot of consideration is given to the type of person or group represented on the councils of such institutions if they are to be effective. 
Here we have an Australian Institute of Marine Science, not the Townsville Institute of Marine Science. I do not begrudge the fact that it is in that very fair city which is well placed for the type of investigation that will be carried out. At biological schools in every university in Australia there is increasing interest in marine science. Embryonic attempts were made to do this sort of research work in earlier days. I recall the effort to use the Institute of Marine Biology of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation at Cronulla. In about 1945 students were taken from Australian universities to be introduced into the procedures of marine science research. I know that at the zoology schools of a number of universities the question of setting up these institutes for individual universities has been considered. 
When it comes to setting up an Australian Institute of Marine Science we must think of the widest possible representation on the council of such an institution. I support the amendments that have been put forward by my colleagues of the 
Opposition, and rebut the suggestion that there is no reason for this wide representation. Surely we have tried to cover a field embracing all those concerned with this subject. We have taken those responsible bodies with an interest in marine science. We have acknowledged the fact that Parliament whether it be the Commonwealth Parliament or a State parliament because it is taking an important step in setting up such an Australian institute, should have as representatives upon it, as it does with other institutions, members of Parliament who need the knowledge to put forward arguments for the institutes both in this House and outside it, and to understand what is . needed. I believe that the propositions that have been put forward are entirely sensible. They will give a wide representation of persons interested in the field. I accept that the Minister may have a different view, but I think he should be persuaded by the arguments adduced to increase representation on the council so that it will be a truly representative council and the truly effective Australian Institute of Marine Science. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be omitted  (Mr Beazley's amendment)  stand part of the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Australian' of 19th August headed 'STD faults put up our Telephone Bills: Thousands pay more, says union', in which it was stated that postal union officials alleged a number of defects in the subscriber trunk dialling metering system? If so, has he had the allegations investigated? If they are correct in whole or in part, will he reconsider a number of cases of greatly increased telephone accounts following STD installations which I have submitted to him for adjustment, without success? 
I cannot share the naive and innocent adolescent joy of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  in regard to this Government's Budget. 1 listened to his frequent references to statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I am afraid that I failed to comprehend that he was rebutting any of the criticisms of the Budget which were made. In fact, we on this side of the House do not consider the Government's Budget just as an isolated government act. We compare this Budget with the Budgets that this Government has presented in preceding years and because it Claims to be a responsible government we look through those earlier Budgets to see whether there is some golden thread of economic thought, something that provides a link between the various Budgets, something which gives guidelines for Australia's economy and its stability; but nowhere do we find them. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  in the concluding stages of his Budget Speech, said: 
Of course, any Budget can only be framed on the basis of the Government's best judgment at the time. What the future holds can always be only dimly seen. We shall review economic trends aS the year goes on to ensure that the economy moves properly towards its sustainable growth path. 
Well, in view of the standards of the Government's best judgments in recent years, what an ominous statement that is! A government, after 23 years in office, can only dimly see what its efforts in those years may produce. Who can trust this Treasurer? Well may the Government be accused of a complete lack of cohesion and aim in its forward planning of Australia's economy, and this is just what the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition is all about. The Government cannot possibly claim that the economic difficulties in Australia are due solely to external factors beyond its control. The fact is that this Government has set no national goals. It has not sought to utilise Australia's natural resources for Australia's benefit in the fields of minerals, oil, gas or even human beings. So who can trust the Treasurer and his Budget? 
Last year the Treasurer produced the most contractionary Budget for more than 10 years. I was absent from Australia at that time so I cannot speak of the reaction to that Budget. However, I know that this misguided Treasurer was forced to recant earlier this year by producing a miniBudget. I repeat: Who can trust this Treasurer? Having left his options open in this Budget, who could confidently predict what he would do in a few months' time if he were given an opportunity? The safest course is not to give him that opportunity There is no doubt that the Treasurer has tried to put more money into the hands of the consumers. There is also no doubt that he has done it in such a way that he could very quickly take it out of their hands. 
My electorate contains a big percentage of semi-skilled and unskilled workers, of migrants and pensioners. What can I tell them that this Budget offers them? It offers them very little indeed. What does it do to curb the unemployment that has occurred in that area? As the Leader of the Opposition has pointed out in his proposed amendment, the Budget fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia. Indeed, it fails to define goals, adequate or otherwise. One can appreciate why Government supporters feel that the Budget is an improvement. After last year's Budget any Budget would be an improvement. In the 20 minutes allotted to an honourable member to speak on the 
Budget he can give it only the most cursory examination. It contains many factors that should be explored in depth. 
The Treasurer and the Government as a whole have always made much of what the Treasurer calls the continuing upsurge of wage pressures. After listening to Government supporters one would think that that was the only considerable factor in the national economy. The conciliation and arbitration system acts as a wage justification system. Mind you, the Government with its record has ignored the conciliation angle and has insisted on arbitration to force confrontation. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  referred to conciliation and arbitration. He spoke of disputes. I have no doubt that he wishes to cover up the fact that in industrial matters this Government tries to force confrontation. This occurred during the oil strike. Right in the middle of the oil strike the New South Wales Liberal Government conducted a by-election in a blue ribbon Liberal seat. How did its sincerity and credibility fare? There was a gigantic swing in that seat against the ruling Liberals. Many showed their disgust by not voting at all. Is this what the Government wants to achieve by forcing confrontation with workers in industries? Let it remember that there is a conciliation angle to these matters. 
What does the Government achieve when it enforces this sot of confrontation in the areas of price increases and profits? Has it ever suggested in any way that price rises should be justified, that price rises of basic materials should not merely follow wage rises but should be based on efficient management and techniques, on proper planning for the use of resources and on a temperate expectancy of profits? Why does the Government resist such a price justification procedure as a measure of economic common sense? What does the Government do about international raiding of our natural resources so that we receive only the smallest return for them? This return is usually tied to the vagaries of foreign currencies. Where in the Budget does the Government give stimulus for Australia's industries to use our raw materials to process goods, instead of allowing these materials to be processed in other countries and then returned here? This is of particular importance now that Australia knows it is a fuel rich country. Even established industries pass into the hands of overseas interests. 
What concern has the Government shown for this trend? The contract for the pink pages of our telephone directories is recent enough for it to be fresh in everybody's mind. Even the promotional literature on Australia is produced overseas. One may ask what the results are for our printing industry. Why should public enterprise always be decried in contrast with private enterprise? I invite honourable members to have a look at the capital works programme outlined in the Treasurer's Budget Speech. The capital expenditure provided for this year is even lower than that provided for last year. As to expenditure provided for in the Budget, one can touch on some issues fairly broadly. An important factor is the major component of State grants. Later we may have an opportunity to debate that subject at greater length when the State grants legislation is introduced. In the Papers attached to the Budget Speech is a variety of matters for which the finances paid to the States will be used. These finances deserve analysis. 
Amongst them are grants for unemployment in non-metropolitan and metropolitan areas. What a hollow result is achieved in respect of employment. One of the municipalities I represent received probably one of the highest grants but with it it could provide employment for only about 30 men for a period of 6 weeks without any continuing benefit. The comments appearing with the table show that payments to the States for education purposes are expected to increase by $25,996,000. Of that sum $11,506,000 is attributable to increased per capita grants to independent schools. Surely those figures stand as a disproportionate and inequitable contribution. 
Turning to social services, the Treasurer has referred to the position of the more needy. One cannot speak against the sorely needed pension increases. These increases are justified by the Government only by taking them as a percentage increase on the previous pension. The Treasurer has even added in the mini-Budget pension 
Increase in an attempt to gain more credit. Anybody interested in such matters is entitled to ask how the pension is related to pensioner needs, the poverty level, the cost of living and the average wage structure in the community. Is it unreasonable to expect that a responsible economic document would draw a connection between the amounts of a pension supposedly to support citizens and the factors which determine that it do so? But no; there is no responsible recognition of this. 
I heard the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  talk about supplementary assistance to pensioners paying rent. If the Hamer Ministry in Victoria follows the customs of the Bolte Ministries in Victoria, that supplementary assistance for rent immediately will be added to housing commission rents payable by pensioners who receive the supplementary assistance, so the benefit will be lost. It is right that some pensioners should feel aggrieved that they are left out of it. After all, what of the pensioner who owns his home? I have a letter here to which I shall quickly refer. Such a pensioner would pay $55 to $60 a year in municipal rates; he would pay $50 to $55 a year in Board of Works rates; house insurance would be another $30 to $35 a year. This makes a total of $135 to $150. To this figure must be added at least $150 for maintenance, which makes a total of $300 a year that the pensioner must pay. Why should they be left out of supplementary assistance? 
What of the greatest hoax in this field perpetrated by the Budget - that of the abolition of the means test? The Treasurer commented: 
The Government commitment! to introduce free of means test pensions for people aged 63 or over  is  an historic decision and represents  a  major social advance. 
But this Budget does not do that, lt merely promises to appoint a committee of inquiry to examine and report on the abolition of the means test, with particular reference to national superannuation. It certainly is an historic right about face by the Government. My Party has been advocating for years the abolition of the means test and the establishment of a national superannuation scheme. In the last election campaign my Party made promises concerning this matter. Representatives of this Gov ernment cried: 'Impossible! Financial Irresponsibility! Where is the money coming from?' 
What of the Treasurer's attitude to this? Until a few short weeks ago he said this was impossible, and now he has presented it in his Budget. I am glad that the Labor Party is going to have the green light to go ahead and no one will ask us where the money is coming from. Once again I ask: Who can trust this Treasurer? How giddy he must be from this rapid turnabout. There will be welcome relief for the aged who need care in nursing homes or private homes. But still the basic old attitude of philanthrophy and charity persists in regard to these matters. Is it not about time this attitude was dropped and the whole basis of our social services whether for pensioners, the ill, the physically and mentally handicapped, etc., became a matter of providing for the maximum use of our natural resources - in this case, human beings - by a responsible government accepting its responsibilities in an enlightened community and not pushing the responsibility on to voluntary agencies. 
In the short time I have remaining I could perhaps talk of some of the adjustments on the receipts side of the Budget. Of course, my constituents will be thrilled at the drop in the tax on the purchase of works of art. I am sure the incidence of Rembrandts and Van Goghs will increase markedly. Their joy at the estate and gift duty decreases will be unbounded. This will benefit them greatly. Of course, in regard to the alterations in the rates of income tax, my colleagues who have already spoken in this debate point out one after the other the inequitable nature of the steps taken. The tax scales still discriminate heavily against low and middle income earners. For years I have heard the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  refer to a thorough reform of the taxation scales to remove such lack of equity. I commend him for his persistence and hope to see him shortly in the position to be able to do what he says should be done. Every competent person outside the Parliament who has commented on the Budget has pointed out the simple fact that it is only the rate of increase in taxation that has been reduced. From the figures supplied by the Treasurer himself, it is certain that the rise in the net income tax paid by individuals in 1972-73 will be $439.2m. How forcefully are Government members putting this forward? How forcefully will they do, as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  says they should do - go out into the electorate and sell the proposal? One can imagine the great silence that will descend over this aspect. I quote from the editorial in today's 'Canberra Times', which states: 
The Liberal-Country Party, coalition has yet to demonstrate that it is committed to the ideal of ensuring an equitable distribution of the national income: the philosophy that guides its decisions often can be summed up as supplying the cash to pay the doctor, the hospital, or the school, or to buy the bare necessities of life, rather than offering a way to reduce these costs and to improve their quality and availability. 
A responsible newspaper can say that after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party governments. In fairness, the next sentence in the editorial reads: 
Whether Labor could or would do better is the question that remains unanswered. 
But if Labor has the opportunity, it will have the zeal and it will provide the facilities to carry out worthwhile policies. This Budget is a document produced for election winning purposes by a gaggle of Ministers who have all the facilities at their disposal. Yet the Budget shows no planning for the future. Very properly has the Leader of the Opposition moved his amendment and very properly do we on this side of the chamber wholeheartedly support it. 
It is a pleasure to commence my remarks in this debate by agreeing with the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  I think he has done a service by raising the question of an open university in the debate on the Estimates. I agree with his plea. I trust that the purpose that such an open university would serve will be well and truly investigated. I invite the honourable member to read the reports of the debates of the Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference in Paris in 1971 when a resolution concerned with the use of communications satellites for an exchange of educational and other material between countries was debated. The scope of the estimates clearly indicates the changing role of the Commonwealth in education. The question we must ask ourselves is whether the Commonwealth, or this Government, is playing an effective role in education in these changing circumstances. What relationship do the efforts it is making bear to the needs survey of the States in 1970? lt is very hard to draw firm conclusions from the propositions which have been put forward by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  because they are put forward on a 5-year basis. The initial amounts provided sound very good until one realises that they are spread over 5 years. 
And in 6 States. This indicates that what sounds like a bonanza is a very meagre pittance indeed. I want to pass some comments on pre-school education. Probably the most favoured area in pre-school education in Australia today is the Australian Capital Territory. The Commonwealth Government makes some contribution to research into pre-school education but I wonder whether the scope of this research will provide enough information on the provision of pre-school education in the States, including whether such pre-school education is the proper responsibility of education authorities or health authorities. It must be admitted that there is some debate throughout the world on whether pre-school education is really necessary, but the evidence would strongly come down on the side of the theory that in these years, the most formative years, of the individual pre-school education is essential for their future progress and education. Yet in Victoria at least 10,000 children are denied a pre-school education, and that is a conservative estimate. For some children in Victoria to receive preschool education they must attend private institutions to which they pay about $50 a term. 
The tragedy is that in relation to the distribution of the provision of pre-school education it is the already economically deprived areas, such as the northern and western suburbs of Melbourne, which are tragically short of such facilities and so the children in those areas are further disadvantaged in their future education. The strain of providing these facilities is largely on local government in the provision of kindergartens. This is an unfair strain. The Commonwealth should interest itself more in this area and provide direct grants for capital and recurrent expenditure in preschool education. Much has been made of the grants that are made for science blocks and libraries. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  was recently informed that 93 per cent of the richest private schools in Australia had science blocks and that 53 per cent of them had  libraries. We should compare that situation with that in the Victorian government school system. An old colleague of mine, the honourable member for Deer Park in the Victorian Legislative Assembly, asked the following question on 19th September 1972 of the Minister for Education in that State: 
Which State high and technical schools are not expected to have - (a) science blocks; and (b) libraries, established with Commonwealth funds, at the commencement of the 1973 school year? 
I seek leave to have the answer to that question  incorporated  in Hansard. I have shown it to the Minister and he has agreed. 
This answer shows that in Victoria there are 93 State high schools without science blocks, and this does not include schools where such projects are under construction or new schools where science blocks will be provided from State loan funds. There are 54 technical schools without science blocks, 210 high schools without libraries and 97 technical schools without libraries. This shows the tragic situation in that State with regard to the provision of these facilities in government schools. I regret that such a large number of those schools are in the electorate of Scullin or its vicinity, although those areas are no more deprived than many country areas. One would think that members of the Australian Country Party, who help form the Government, would be a lot more active in seeing that these facilities were provided for country children in Victorian schools. It is seen to be a case of criminal neglect when one reads the list of schools without those facilities. 
Turning now to universities - and Latrobe University happens to be in my electorate - the structuring of our universities has always been such as to try to preserve their autonomy. However, the Australian Universities Commission plays  a  very substantial role by its control of the finances that are available, and through manipulation of those finances it can formulate many of the policies which universities have to follow. There has been recent comment by visitors to this country that the failure rate in Australian universities is far higher than it is overseas and that the standards expected here are far too high. One wonders whether it is not time to assess the whole problem of whether many of those who fail in their courses at university would not have obtained meaningful qualifications for use in the community if a different attitude had been taken to their future education. The money that has been allocated to these universities is such that the vice-chancellor of Latrobe University a month ago was forced to say that Latrobe University would be struggling for cash over the next triennium. His comment was that staff increases could be affected by the situation because salaries have to be paid from recurrent expenses. He said he hoped that the University would be able to maintain the present staff-student ratio which, by international standards, is not necessarily a good one. He said, as was reported in a newspaper article: 
We will be struggling ... but we will try to hold the line. 
A great deal of consideration has to be given to the question of how these universities are to continue. Even more trenchant is the criticism of colleges of advanced education by  Dr Phillip  Law. He points out that the allocations made 'for an old, underprivileged system faced with increased enrolment demands and heavy inflationary pressures, together with commitments for new campus constructions, are inadequate'. He further commented that the severe reduction of the recommended unmatched grants for college libraries was a bitter disappointment and that no single omission will be felt more painfully than this. He said: 
We had hoped for a significant move towards remedying the pitiful inadequacies of our library system. 
If we take this in conjunction with the pitiful inadequacies in the provisions for government secondary schools in Victoria we can see how the effect will be potentiated. I regret that the Government has not taken any notice of the needs survey undertaken in 1970 and that, far from living up to its promises in respect of education, it has been derelict in its duty to many young people in the community. 
If it was not so important it would be laughable to watch this Government, like King Canute, trying to stem the tide. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  talked about salaried specialists in hospitals. Does the honourable member realise that this has been the European tradition since the last century? Does he realise that a committee of inquiry in the United Kingdom examined the situation in about 1910 and recommended salaries for specialist services in hospitals in England and that it was adopted from then on? Does the honourable member realise that since the early part of this century the majority of the large hospitals in the United States have been staffed by salaried specialists and salaried doctors? What makes Australia such a remarkable place that it does not follow these examples that are the usual thing overseas? The honourable member referred to voluntary health insurance as though it is something unique. Most countries have passed the stage of using it and they depend on government collection of revenue and government use of resources to supply people with adequate medical services. Even in the United States of America with the growth of Medicare and Medicaid one finds that there is a greater social acceptance of the concepts of government collection of revenue. 
Even the popular magazine 'Life' ran a story called 'More than Compassion' in its 11th August edition this year and invited readers to comment on their feelings about health services. Of the 41,000 readers who responded to the survey 55 per cent would favour national health insurance paid for by pay-roll deduction and administered by the government. Has the honourable member for Angas heard of the Kaiser health scheme in the United States? lt is a salaried service which was started in the Kaiser industrial organisation, ft was so effective that it spread down the western coast of the United States of America and to Hawaii. When I had discussions with officers of that organisation some 4 years ago it was making great inroads into the mid-west. That is a pre-paid salaried service. The article in 'Life' reads: 
Essentially, Kaiser is a prepaid group-practice system in which patients visit salaried doctors at clinics and hospitals run by the plan. 'It isn't  poshy',  writes a reader in El  Cerrito,  California. They don't do unnecessary hand-holding, but the care is good, in many cases extraordinarily good, and a real effort is made to maintain a relationship wilh one doctor.' 
The Acting Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in answer to a question this morning talked about the quality of care supplied under this system. What criteria does he apply to quality of care'? Doctors and hospital administrators in this community have asked that a system of accreditation of hospitals and the personnel attached to them should be instituted. It needs government finance to do this. This Government has not supplied that finance. It has not done anything to ensure that there is quality of care. Medical and surgical audits are necessary to check performance. Doctors will do this voluntarily if the finance is made available to them to do their own surveys. At one hospital on which I am on the board of management the doctors working there voluntarily agreed to do this but they could only do it in a limited way because the finance was not made available by government to enable them to do it fully. What about on-going education with the Royal College of General Practitioners asking that there should be on-going education of doctors and a system of assessing the quality of care given should be carried out? What assistance has been given by this Government? None whatsoever. Yet honourable members opposite talk blithely about the quality of health care without any criteria on which to assess it. 
It was rather interesting to see the pamphlet put out by the Australian Medical Association. Surprisingly enough I am a member and I get the Association's journal. The label on this document reads: 'Published as a service to members by the Australian Medical Association'. Honourable members might note that it is not as a service to patients. They are the people that matter to honourable members in this Parliament and who should matter to the people who are in government. The statement is made in the pamphlet that the AMA is strongly opposed to any system under which the doctor is encouraged to bill an insurance organisation direct, thus by-passing the patient. Where is this ethic applied in workers compensation insurance? Where is it applied to pensioner patients? Where is it applied to repatriation patients? Where is it applied to employees in Commonwealth departments who are not covered under the workers compensation agreement between the AMA and the insurance companies? It is absolute nonsense to talk about by-passing the patient. Because you are a repatriation patient, a pensioner patient or you have had a workers compensation injury you are a patient just the same and doctors do not hesitate to direct to the insurance companies or other organisations bills for the amounts claimed. 
We are told in this pamphlet that the Commonwealth Department of Health, which has a great deal of experience in this field, has done a costing of Labor's scheme and has built into the costing an additional sum of $21m to cover a 25 per cent increase in general practitioner consultations, due to the fact that they would be free. On what criteria can the Department say that there would be a 25 per cent increase? This is absolute nonsense. There is no way the Department can measure this. How can Labor's proposals be compared with schemes operating overseas? What right has the Department to do the Government's job and the AMA's job by putting forward political propaganda? With regard to the 25 per cent increase the pamphlet states: 
It will no doubt be denied that there would be a 25 per cent increase in utilisation. But the practising doctor will be aware that this could well happen. 
A slightly softening point of view to the definite assumption. The AMA pamphlet says: 
The number of general practitioners per head of population is already on the decline. 
One of the falsities of these figures is that many specialists are fortunately adopting the attitude of preferring to go into general practice and to practise their speciality out in the community as doctors of first contact, and this is to be commended. I hope it will continue. It is said that general practitioners already work extremely long hours. There is a tendency for those extremely long hours to be reduced. In fact if we are talking about quality of medical care, I think the Government should take note of the developments which are taking place in the field of general practice today. No longer when you ring after hours can you get the family doctor with whom you are supposed to hold this so sacred doctor-patient relationship. You get an emergency locum service. When I was in medical practice and was on duty at night and received a call, it might be something of a minor nature and the patient could be given advice over the telephone. Now no matter how minor the emergency the locum service will visit the home and, of course, charge an after hours home visit fee. This, of course, plays havoc with the statistics of doctors charging the most common fee. There is just so much nonsense being talked on this question of what a great health scheme we have. There are much better schemes which can be implemented. The Labor Party has recommended a much better scheme for the patients and the people in Australia. We believe that doctors have nothing to fear from it. I believe that many of the doctors accept it as an established fact. One could deal with many other matters in the estimates, such as the distribution of doctors in the community, the scarcity of doctors in rural areas and many problems which this Government has failed to solve. It has not tried to adapt its health scheme to satisfy the needs. 
I find myself in the position of speaking on the estimates for the Department of Immigration rather earlier that I had expected. It is not my intention to try to traverse the rather wide scope of these estimates. In talking to teachers and those associated with schools in areas where there are large numbers of children from migrant families, one is depressed by their extreme frustration. Australia accepts migrants because it is believed that they will make a contribution to our society and our economy. It would be fair to say also that migrants come to Australia because of better job opportunities for the adults and better educational and job opportunities for the children. This Government has recognised some responsibility for this. The former Minister for Immigration,  Mr Lynch,  said that the Government 'decided to finance the salary costs of teachers employed to teach migrant children in special classes and the necessary supervisory staff, special training courses for teachers in methods of teaching English as a foreign language, the provision of approved capital equipment of the language laboratory type for special classes, and the provision of suitable teaching and learning materials'. That these steps have not been enough is abundantly evident. 
I know that both the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  have received a number of deputations on these matters, because the situation in capital cities in particular is so critical. For a start, these chil dren usually are attending schools in which the accommodation already is strained. Proper teaching of migrant children who have a disability with English demands that there should be appropriate accommodation so that they can be properly taught. What assistance has the Commonwealth Government given for this purpose in these depressed areas? Is the person concerned with the actual teaching process sufficient by himself with these teaching materials? I know that the deputations to Ministers have stressed the need for ancillary staff. They claim that the total lack of supportive staff, such as interpreters, classroom assistants, social workers, psychologists and so on, greatly affect the effectiveness of their teaching. One does not need to think too deeply to realise the deep social and psychological upsets that would occur in children who are in a completely different and foreign environment with social conditions different from those that they have been used to and with an educational system that does not use their native tongue. That is why the effective supply of this supportive staff is so important. Yet is it not supplied. 
Teachers in this special field may be disadvantaged also by the rigid staffing establishments of State departments. Of course, this is not a Commonwealth responsibility but, since immigration is a Commonwealth responsibility, it is not too much to expect that the Commonwealth should make very firm representations to the States that the rigid educational facilities and staffing establishments in the schools affected should be made more flexible so that the job can be carried out properly. One could say that the areas in which those schools exist are relatively restricted - they are not hard to identify - and that it would not be difficult for changes to be made because it is not only the migrant children at these schools who suffer from this lack of accommodation, this lack of supportive staff, because if there are only a few children with difficulty left in a class there is an overflow effect on the ordinary children who are in the same class but who speak English quite fluently. These circumstances prevent effective teaching of the group as a whole. 
This Government has taken some steps towards satisfying the need. I suggest that the extreme concern shown by deputations of teachers and various other people associated with the conduct of schools and their representations for alterations to be made deserve far more consideration so as to give adequate accommodation, staff and training. Further on this question of the English language, it has been with some interest that I have been watching the reports of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications. I have the third report with me at the moment. I notice that amongst the recommendations in that report there is mention that competence in the English language is of particular importance in those professions where extensive and accurate oral communication is required. This probably sounds pretty self-evident but it certainly needs emphasising.It means that we must expect this Government, through the Department of Immigration, to provide within the English language programme that exists in Australia a recognition of the needs of the professional groups in this area where oral communication is so important. I would hope that this factor, to which the Committee has drawn attention, would be one that receives urgent and practical attention. 
Finally I want to pass a few remarks on the question of the selection of migrants. There has been a certain amount of agreement. I think on both sides of the House, on the selection of migrants. Many factors have been mentioned, one of which is the family basis of migration. One sees whole family units migrating from their native country. It is not just the mother, father and children but includes uncles, aunts, cousins and so on. One problem is that often in these family units there exists a disabled member. A member of the family may be either mentally affected or physically affected. I have in my own electorate a particularly sad case of a very large family unit. They all have very productive jobs. They have held their jobs for a number of years and are well respected members in the community. They have one son who has some mental defect. As a result of this mental defect which came on when he was a youth he was deported back to his country of origin, where he now lives alone. It seems to me from reports from his country of origin that his behaviour at the moment is exemplary and for the years he has been there he has had no problems whatsoever with the authorities. Yet the rest of his family is in Australia and from time to time is faced with the expense of going to see him. They are well respected citizens and they produce much for the community. Surely we could give more humane consideration to cases such as this. Where there is a large productive migrant unit we should be able to allow the underprivileged member of that family to enjoy the care that only his family can provide. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 6.11 to 8 p.m. 
In the time allowed to me 1 wish to concentrate on the environmental aspects of the estimates that are now before the Committee. I do so in some ways to rebut what the previous  speaker  the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  just said, in that he has taken the concept of the Opposition as one of an overall structure dealing with the environment rather than an overall concept of what a Department of the Environment means and what it should deal with. Environment, ecology, pollution and conservation are nice 'in' words at the present moment. If we use these 'in' words we pay lip service to what are popular matters. What we really should be looking at is how much depth there is in action taken on these matters. There is too much accent on pollution and conservation per se. They are discussed too much in isolation and too much as isolated instances. What is the real subject of discussion is man's use and manipulation of the world around him. Man has to decide what he wants and what he will do without. In other words, we have to find a proper balance between what he will accept for material, aesthetic and recreational purposes. 
In examining the functions of the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, I am afraid that its functions are far too nebulous and that they do not give us any clear guidelines as to what we are determining. If we. are to decide what man wants, what he will accept and what he will do without, for a. start, members of Parliament, who will have to deal with the legislation that will handle these matters should be involved in this whole process of looking at the total concept. Yet what do we see? We see the briefest of debates on the report presented to the Parliament on the United Nations Conference on Human Environment held in Stockholm. Really there was no involvement on the part of the members of this Parliament in the matters discussed. 
Another important conference that was held was the second International Parliamentary Conference on the Environment which was held in Vienna this year. The first conference was held in Germany last year. The Government was persuaded with, some reluctance to send 2 members along to that conference. We were represented this year by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  and  Senator Keeffe  at this important international parliamentary conference which dealt with items raised at Stockholm. These are matters which are not reported to Parliament, matters which are not discussed in Parliament, and matters which do not involve the members of Parliament in having a look at this overall concept, despite the very wide ranging discussions that took place and the very sensible recommendations that were made. I think we should have a look at this total concept of the environment and the Minister should use his Department to encourage this sort of involvement of members of the Parliament and discussion of these wide issues. 
Let us take the more popular issues of pollution that are raised and have a look at the record* We might even refer to what some of the States have done in relation to this matter. In 1958 a Clean Air Act was passed in Victoria, but still there is much air pollution in that State. In 1971 an Environmental Protection Authority was set up in Victoria and the pamphlet publicising the setting up of this authority is headed 'Tomorrow and tomorrow and . . .'. 'Tomorrow' is right because despite the Clean Air Act of 1958 little has been done, and I have little confidence that anything will be done by the Environment Protection Authority. The Commonwealth has had a number of Senate select committees on pollution questions. What has resulted from them? Very little indeed. Recently a statement was made that action would be taken on exhaust emissions. A number of matters were put forward on this subject to the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution. I know of one gentleman, a  Mr Cosway,  who uses a wet injection method of reducing exhaust emissions. He demonstrated his device before that Committee, and many others did the same. Very little assistance has been given to those men. If we think of what confronts all of us, we see just how pollution is a day to day affair. We are waiting for the election day to be announced. What will happen is that tons of paper will be produced We will have pamphlets and howtovote cards. Where will this paper go? It will pollute the environment in which we live. Perhaps it might be wise for the political parties to put on every piece of paper they publish a message such as 'Do not rubbish Australia', 'Dispose of this' or Do not pollute your environment'. 
On a more serious note, mention has been made of impact studies carried out by the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. I do not know whether these will provide the total answer. I think there is a greater understanding now that there is an economics of ecology. In a recent speech Brezhnev said: 
As we take steps to speed scientific and technical progress, we must see to it that it should combine with a rational treatment of natural resources and should not cause dangerous air and water pollution or exhaust the soil. 
Taking it from there, if we have a look at some of the industries that are established, the question is raised whether the pollution of the industrialised nations is not already adversely affecting the developing countries, whether developed countries in fact are not pushing industries with a high pollutant effect on to the developing countries and so causing problems for them. I believe that with our natural resources this is an area of which we have to beware. We must not have industries of this sort pushed upon us. Recently I saw an example of these economics of ecology in Tasmania at the pulp and paper works. The raw material comes from the natural forests and from planted forests. This brings in the economics of reafforestation of areas for raw materials. The actual industrial process itself causes the pollution through the various chemical treatments of the wood which causes the release of effluent which pollutes the environment. This raises problems for the industry. If rigid requirements are made on the industry it may mean that production is stopped; it may mean that man has to accept less of this material. I feel that members of Parliament should be informed of these things. The Department of the Environment should be taking a hand in these matters because industry may not necessarily be solely responsible. It may be that there has to be a partnership between the Government and industry in working out measures to control these disadvantages in conservation and pollution as they affect economics. We must think of the environmental aspects of industry and other things in a total concept of national planning. I trust that we will see the Department of the Environment really spelling these things out and being not a nebulous structure but something with real force and real effect in the community. 
In debating the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department it is impossible to cover widely the functions of that Department. I am sure that honourable members appreciate the material that has been provided to them on the activities of the Department. In looking through the financial details in the report of the Australian Post Office I was struck by the fact that there is no way of determining the State by State break down of the financial return. Perhaps I have overlooked some information that has been given. If not, I believe that this information would bo helpful and relevant so that honourable members could see what was occurring in each of the States. However, it is on several other matters that I wish to speak. For some years I have had an interest in industrial safety. In the Australian Post Office annual report for 1972 the following statement appears: 
Lost-time accidents sustained by Post Office staff during the year totalled 5,678. The incidence of these accidents per 100 staff was 5.0 - the same as that recorded last year. 
I am rather concerned about the position being stated in this way. To me, a losttime accident rate for staff of 5 per cent is rather high but to determine the real effect of this rate one would have thought that the figures would have been expressed in the usual way in which such figures are expressed, that is, in terms of the number of hours lost per million man hours worked. In this way one has a basis on which to determine whether the safety factor in this industry is as high as it is in other industries. I felt further concern for this situation when in the same report on page 43 there was comment on the motor vehicle fleet and its operating costs. The statement was made that operating costs, exclusive of depreciation, have been held at 5.5c a mile for the past 12 years. My reason for concern is that in the Australian Post Office 'News' of October 1972 a letter which I think is worth reading is published. It is headed 'Standards ignored' and states: 
As members of the Australian Postal Workers Union, we support public enterprise in the belief that a public authority can serve the public as well if not better than a private firm chasing profits. However, the Post Office has an obligation to observe certain rules and standards which we are convinced it has ignored in the hope of keeping costs as low as possible. 
Although the article on Post Office transport by,  Mr Corless  (APO News, August '72) mentions safety and reliability, it is a fact that many of the old tucks operating from Dudley Street Garage are always driven with the windows wide open because of the stench of oil fumes coming into the cabin from badly worn engines. It is a sad fact that many drivers have taken trucks out even though they were convinced in their minds that the vehicles were unroadworthy. 
The Dudley Street drivers' committee rejects the article by  Mr Corless  because it paints an unreal and inaccurate picture. APWU members who insist on the need for a fleet of vehicles in good  repair and meeting all safety, standards are helping to protect not only working conditions but also the public and the real needs of the Post Office. 
Mooney, Secretary 
This deserves comment from the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme).  He should answer this criticism. If it is a question of the industrial safety of the employee; if it is a question of Post Office vehicles being a marked cause of pollution; if it is a fact that they are unroadworthy, and if one of the greatest public enterprises in Australia is allowing these conditions to continue then many of our committees on industrial safety, many of our steps to reduce pollution and many of our committee reports that we have recently had presented on vehicle safety are useless. Those matters are raised in a Post Office publication, and properly should be raised at this time and answered. 
In the Post Office report I noticed also a statement that early in 1972 a promotion campaign was launched to extend the use of franking machines. I, as one who has obtained a franking machine for use in my own office, feel that the Postmaster-General could well give some consideration to the promotion of the use of franking machines by supplying them to members of Parliament for use in their offices so that they have not only the convenience of these machines but also can keep a check on their postage costs. In addition there are certain advantages in mail sorting for local Post Office personnel. 
In the few minutes left to me I want to return to a subject that I have raised on a number of occasions - the size of telephone accounts since the changeover to subscriber trunk dialling. I have raised this matter with the Postmaster-General on behalf of a number of individuals and have spoken on it in the House. I remind the PostmasterGeneral that several weeks ago, arising out of a Press report of union officials alleging that thousands of telephone subscribers were being overcharged on STD calls because of faults in the mechanism, he said in answer to a question that if these officials gave him details of such faults he would look into them. My concern is that I have given up referring any of these large accounts to him for investigation. I receive courteous replies but none of them satisfies me. None of them has yet ans wered the question why a man, who was on holidays for 3 weeks and had his house locked up and not used by anyone., had calls recorded on the meter during that period. This was ascertained because the Post Office was checking at that time. Nor do they explain the question concerning one other man who, because of the size of his account, has locked his telephone and has kept a very close record of the calls that are made, yet the number of calls which he has recorded differs from the number recorded on the meter. One can understand that there will be an increase in the account if numbers of STD calls are made. 
The postal union officials who raised this matter, apparently at a Press conference that was given at the time, gave some details of the various defects which they alleged were apparent and of the reasons why overcharging of individuals was occurring. Apparently it has led to an upset in a further area of the Postmaster-General's responsibility because when an interview in regard to this matter was to take place on an Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme, the policy of equal presentation of points of view had to be disregarded to some extent because the Post Office would not answer the arguments that were advanced by the officials. STD is certainly a convenient mechanism for people to use, but when age pensioners and other individuals suddenly find unexplained rises in telephone accounts of double or treble their usual value, I think that they are entitled to query them. They are entitled to a thorough-going investigation of the whole metering system when allegations are made by persons working in the Department and who believe that such charges are being unfairly imposed on these individuals. 
by leave- The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  has just given some account of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. 
At the beginning of my remarks I should like to express the great deal of satisfaction that I, and, I am sure, the other members of the Committee have had in serving on the Committee. One of the highlights of my membership of the Victorian State Parliament was my membership of the Statute Law Revision Committee and certainly one of the highlights of my first term in this Parliament will be my membership of the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. I think it is fitting that, initially, I should join with the honourable member for Henty, who was the  Chairman  of the Committee, in thanking the other members of the Committee for the work that was put in and not always in comfortable circumstances because there were a number of problems which required on-site inspection for us to really know what the problems were. The good humour and the real interest that was shown in these matters made the Committee a very effective one. 
Mention was made of the Committee's expression of thanks to various members of the staff - to our 3 successive secretaries, our Hansard staff, our transport officer, our advisers and so on - who made our task much easier. The assistance given us by Commonwealth departments, State governments and Territories administrations in our investigations should also be noted. They were all most co-operative. The witnesses who appeared before the Committee, whether they were academically trained or visitors from overseas or from a number of voluntary bodies, all tried to express their views with clarity before the Committee. Many members of Parliament, both State and Federal, assisted the. Committee at on-site inspections and in explaining particular problems. One of the very valuable submissions to the Committee was made by  Senator Mulvihill  who put forward a substantial submission on the subject of kangaroos. 
However, I think it would be fair to say that most members of the Committee have an uneasy feeling of dissatisfaction with the report, not because of the work done or the recommendations made but because of a feeling that the report is as yet not complete. Originally, we had hoped that our report would give forceful guidelines for many years into the future but, due to a number of factors, we were not able to attain this objective in the report which has just been presented. I believe that we should mention a number of the factors that prevented us from attaining what we had sought so that the report can be read with this in view. One of the great difficulties confronting us was the complexity of Commonwealth-States-Territories relationships. I include the Territories advisedly because they were in our terms of reference. As a result of this, it was necessary for the Committee to tread very carefully in the investigations that it made and in the recommendations that were put forward, lest States or Territories, jealous of their own . powers and privileges, be offended. If this matter was to be effectively dealt with under the existing circumstances, a large degree of co-operation was necessary. 
For example, amongst the Territories we visited were Norfolk Island and Papua New Guinea. In Papua New, Guinea we found that wildlife conservation amongst the indigenous people was a very important requirement and that we, as the Commonwealth, may have to provide them with a great deal of aid in the future. There was also a lack of comprehensive expertise in this field of wildlife conservation. We had many experts before the Committee but of necessity they were experts in restricted fields, and in the overall field of ecology no-one could give us the comprehensive expertise that we sought. 
I feel that the. actual, name of the Committee was in some sense misleading in that a select committee on wildlife conservation allowed a number of our fellow members, departmental officials and a number of the general public to feel that many things would be pushed aside, when in fact what this committee was dealing with was the relationship of man to his natural environment. I think members of the Committee, appreciated this and the recommendations they have made have been made in this sense. However, the recommendations require a great deal of expansion. The problem of land use will be found to be particularly emphasised in the report. This problem must be faced by both Commonwealth and State authorities. At the moment, land use authorities are. in an early stage of development from the point of view of conservation measures. I emphasise that this question of land use is one of the very important factors revealed in the report. 
As has been mentioned, there were some defects in our terms of reference. Witnesses pointed out to us that we were dealing with fauna and not flora and it might have been as well if flora had been included in the terms of reference. The Committee, to the extent that it had to deal with the habitat of wildlife, was able to make some comment on this. But a number of submissions were made by witnesses dealing with the conservation of flora which, because they were specifically related to that, could not effectively become part of the report. 1 refer for example to a couple of submissions we received in Western Australia on the question of the unique wild flowers in that State. These were powerful submissions on which we would have liked to be able to make some recommendations. But because of the restricted terms of reference, we were not able to do so. 
It has been mentioned that a recommendation of the Committee referred to the Great Barrier Reef and suggested that it should be declared a marine national park and remain inviolate. Of course, the terms of reference really restricted our comment on the question of the marine environment and marine national parks. This was another limiting factor in our discussions. We were precluded from going further down the chain into the question of invertebrates and so on, which are very important biologically. I feel that we suffered somewhat oy the inclusion of the term of reference with regard to pesticides - I think this is being wise with hindsight - because the whole problem of pesticides, once opened, became an overwhelming one. 
Another factor, or course, was the lack of time for the Committee in having to cover this vast task in a period of just over  2  years between other parliamentary duties. There was some lack of opportunity in certain areas we should have investigated. We were informed, for example, that the type of mining on Christmas Island is endangering the survival of  2  species of birds. We were unable to make on site inspections of this. We believe that this should be of some concern to the Commonwealth and that further investigations should be made and action taken. 
National parks and their management was another problem that was put to us. We found that while the consciousness of the proper ecological management of national parks is improving in Australia and there is a great deal of pride growing in the men who are employed in the national parks services, there is still a lot to be learnt and a lot of training to be done. A number of witnesses recommended that the Committee should journey to other countries where national park management programmes are well established. It was unfortunate that we were unable to do this. We were informed that there were experts in Australia on these matters. Unfortunately the names we were given were those of experts who had already been interviewed and who admitted their own limitations in this respect. I believe it is most important in matters of this nature that parliamentarians, who eventually have to assist in making the decisions and bear the responsibility, should be fully informed on these matters. Therefore I think a great deal of emphasis should be placed on the Committee's recommendation that a standing committee of the House of Representatives should be established in the new Parliament to inquire into matters of environmental and conservation concern referred to it by the House. In this way the members of the House will be kept continually informed on these problems. It may be that the members of the House, for example, would have been better informed of the problems of Lake Pedder if such a standing committee had existed and had been able to investigate the matter. There was also some lack of communication with government departments. It appeared that a number of departments were involved in conferences with other countries on matters of conservation which, while referred to in some reports of those departments, were never in fact referred to the Committee. 
I come specifically to the recommendation. I intend to deal with these only briefly. One of the recommendations is for a biological survey. With the present state of knowledge of the fauna of Australia, a biological survey is of the utmost urgency. Information that is obtainable about Australian wildlife is scattered throughout universities, museums, institutes, zoological gardens, libraries and so on, and there is no collation. There seems to be no system or attmept comprehensively to cover the field. We have had very strong recommendations that a biological survey should be earned out. It will take a number of years to cover the defects in knowledge. If this is to be used effectively there must also be a central system of data storage and retrieval for use by these institutions. That is another recommendation that goes along with the biological survey. Of course with this must go a Commonwealth wildlife authority. When one speaks of a Commonwealth wildlife authority it is suggested that we will have a bureaucratic, centralised structure that will be of little use. Of course such an authority which is able to co-operate with the States and the voluntary organisations and institutions that already exist will be able to help us know more about this country we live in and the wildlife that exists here. It is not a task that will take 12 months to perform. It is a task that will last for many decades. 
With regard to the kangaroo problem, I think the  Chairman  of the Committee has adequately summed up the Committee's feelings. I believe that tribute should be paid to those members of the public who agitated so strongly with regard to the kangaroo problem 1 believe they were alive to a developing problem. That the Committee in its decisions found that in fact the largest species of kangaroos were not at the present time in danger of extinction does not in any way underestimate the value of these people in calling public attention to the problem. I believe that the interim report of the Committee on kangaroos has served as a timely warning and has set down guidelines which can prevent a real problem occurring. What we wish to see is some action on that report. 
With regard to national parks, there is too much tendency to talk in percentages of land areas. The areas for our national parks should be selected because of the characteristics of the habitat and the wildlife that live there,' not just because of availability of land. We would reject the idea that land that was found to be useless for anything else should be set aside as national parks just for the sake of having large areas set aside. This sort of attitude to national parks would of course demand finance. It would demand co-operation between the Commonwealth and States. It will depend largely on the type of biological and ecological survey that is held. 
Another term of reference dealt with domestic animals gone wild and their effect on wildlife. Here again the knowledge of their effect is minimal. Everyone has a subjective feeling that perhaps he is damaging our national wildlife. Here again is a great source for investigation. Not only are we dealing with land use and with man and his relationship to his natural environment but we are dealing also with some of the aesthetic values for tourism, recreation and enjoyment of life. So if we try to look at the complete picture I am sure that the House will realise the urgency for action on the recommendations of the Committee. There is a real urgency that these recommendations be looked at and acted on as quickly as possible; that we decide that members of Parliament shall no longer be divorced from and kept ill-informed on such important matters as these but that ' they are very much within the province of Parliament and that we can become involved by the type of standing committee that has been recommended. I hope that the outcome of the report will be a better understanding by the Parliament and the country of the relations of man and the environment in which he lives. I believe it is' an effective report. I regret that the restrictions and so on that I mentioned did not enable our Committee, which was willing to do so, to present the guidelines which would have served for decades to come. But perhaps a standing committee in future years will be able to rectify that. Finally I congratulate the honourable member for Henty for the part he played in initiating this Committee and for the effective chairmanship and leadership he gave to the members of that Committee. 
It is pretty surprising to hear on this day the new Opposition putting up such a barrage of hollow verbiage about a matter which the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has put forward to assist in convenient running of the Parliament. I suppose one should say that the customary time of  2  minutes allowed for the ringing of the bells for a quorum or a division during the last Parliament was probably brought about by the fact that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  moved the gag so many times that if the ringing of the bells had lasted for  3  minutes there would have been no time for debate at all. The hollow vertiage in the arguments against this proposed increase from  2  minutes to  3  minutes was equalled only by the pitiful arguments that were put in the censure debate this morning. If common sense were to rule, then the time that the Opposition and the Australian Country Party have taken in this debate would more than total the time that an extra minute would take in the ringing of the bells for a whole session. It is just utter nonsense. The arguments of Opposition supporters indicate the sterility of their viewpoints. They indicate that after  23  years in office, now that they are themselves in Opposition they have no appreciation of the running of the Parliament or of what can be done to assist the members. If it is so simple and the extra time is not needed perhaps the  Speaker  should consider converting the Liberal Party room to the Cabinet room and that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  be shifted from their rooms over to the other side of this building and then they would have to cover the extra distance. I wonder how much that would appeal to them. 
As to the spurious argument that an additional minute for the ringing of the bells for a quorum or for a division will interfere with the broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings, have not those honourable members learnt, many of them after many years in this Parliament, that we are not here simply for the purpose of broadcasting proceedings? We are here for the proper conduct of debate, the proper discussion of matters which should be brought before the national Parliament and the proper making of decisions. The Leader of the House is making in this motion some small procedural change that will allow us to carry out our duties more effectively. It is just as well that this Parliament has no severely handicapped members in its membership because there are few facilities to enable a handicapped member to comply with the rule relating to the ringing of the bells. It seems to me that perhaps we should set an example to ensure that if there is a disabled or handicapped member he will receive some assistance. The honourable member for Prospect (Or Klugman) raised an interesting point.  1  think if he had said it straight out - had the  Speaker  allowed him to do so - he would have said that we should have electronic counting during divisions which is a method used in other parliaments. Perhaps we should consider that proposal. As to the spurious and hoi ow argument which has been put opposing an increase from  2  minutes to  3  minutes, a measure which the Leader of the House in his wisdom has put forward for the assistance of members, it is just so much nonsense. The motion should be dealt with and we should get on with the more important business that is before us. 
1 am amazed to hear the comments of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  particularly the threats he made when referring to the parties on the other side being determined to mirror correctly the aspirations of the Australian people for he was a member of the Government which operated under the old time schedule. This led to an article being written in yesterday's "Canberra Times' which described this House as a repressed and demoralised institution because of the actions of the Liberal-Country Party Government, a minority government. How well did the then government, with its sitting hours, allow the Opposition to mirror correctly the aspirations of the Australian people, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition says? The article asked this question: 
U the Government's legislative program to be handke! in the House in the same old way? That is, by about 70 meetings a year, with the legislation being bulldozed through by, the 'gag' and the 'guillotine*. 
Let us not forget that the Government of which  Mr Chipp- 
Anil, incidentally, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was a Minister in that Government -  was a Minister won its own way in the House of Representatives in the last Parliament (1970-72) by  gagging  debate no less than 223 times; in that time the House passed 414 Bills (all introduced by the Government) but such was the pressure to. hurry this process that of those Bills 322 were not even given a committee-stage scrutiny of their detail (the stage was  omitted  of all (he 414 Bills only 45 were seen worthy of the suggestion of alternatives by way of  committee  amendments: and in all of that legislation-making back-bench members from both sides had only II amendments accepted. 
This is the record of that minority Government which now utters threats that if more sensible hours of sitting are arranged it will obstruct the meeting of the House because it cannot correctly mirror the aspirations of the Australian people. The suggestions were put forward by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  a man of long experience in this House and a man who made delightful use of the adjournment debate for effective politicking and putting his viewpoint and that of the people he represents. If we examine the sitting hours that are proposed, we see, as the Leader of the House has already shown, that there will be more time for honourable members to speak on the adjournment. He has shown that there will be more time for debate because of the change in commencement times and the alteration of meal times. Why then is there this objection to the alterations that are proposed? Is it because the Opposition fears these extra hours of debate.? Does the Opposition worry because it may have to sit for more days over more weeks? Surely it is the business of Parliament to examine the extensive legislation that is put forward in an efficient and correct manner. This is all that the Leader of the House, on behalf of the Government has asked the Opposition parties to agree to, to make these conditions and to make the opportunities for amendments more open. There is more to it than just the matter of time. I have served not only in this Parliament but also in another. I have seen the deterioration of efficiency that long hours bring upon members. Debates become stultified. In fact they become incomprehensible in the later hours of night and the early hours of the morning. What people in industry and commerce would allow the sort of hours that are allowed in this House and expect efficiency of the people who are carrying them out? If honourable members opposite are not going to accept the commonsense arguments that have been put forward by the Leader of the House in support of a change that will allow adequate time for the adjournment debate and adequate time for the questioning and debating of legislation before the House I ask them to give some thought to the effect long hours have on them and on other members of the House. 
I know that little thought has been given to this matter before. Perhaps that is why members of the present Opposition deteriorated so much in the last 3 years. They were so anxious to be sitting around the place talking in circles, gagging debates and not allowing proper consideration of legislation that they went into a state of decay from which it will take many years for them to recover. If we expect efficient work from honourable members we must give the proper conditions. The extra hours to be gained under this proposition are hours gained at a proper time of day. If after the trial suggested by the Leader of the House the arrangements are not effective, changes can be made. Perhaps honourable members will have to be absent from their electorates for more days than the 70 days a year that they are away at present. Perhaps they will have to journey to Canberra for more than the number of weeks than is the case at present. But at least in dealing with legislation over a reasonable spread of hours their health will not deteriorate, their senses and minds will not become befuddled and the legislation will receive the proper consideration that it should. One would hope that in this way the very extensive programme that the Government is putting forward can be critically examined and can be properly discussed. 
I am disturbed at the Opposition's attitude to the schedule that is proposed. It seems to me that it is not a matter of the hours of sitting; it is a matter that because the Opposition can find so little else to do after its overwhelming defeat it wishes to waste the time of the House by opposing sensible measures on sensible conditions such as this. If this is the way members of the Opposition are going to behave during this Parliament they will make a very good-looking Opposition for many years to come. They will then welcome the hours that are suggested by the Leader of the House. The amendment should be rejected and the motion should be accepted by the House. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may 1, firstly, join other honourable members in congratulating you on your appointment as  Deputy Speaker  and as  Chairman  of Committees. I trust that you will convey to  Mr Speaker  our congratulations also, for both of you have given considerable service in this part of the parliamentary procedure over the years. There is no doubt that the confidence which the House has shown in you is well warranted. My next congratulations are for the Opposition - what is left of it. I must admit that in the environment in which I see them at the moment I have never seen a better looking group, and I hope that I shall be able to sit on this side of the House for many years and watch them. I congratulate too the new members who moved and seconded the motion for the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral. I believe that both showed in what they outlined the hopes and aspirations of this Government and of the Australian people, which supported it at the general election. I congratulate also those other honourable members who also made their maiden speeches; each in his own way has expressed his personality and his respect for this institution. I suppose I ought to congratulate the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Paterson, on his narrow survival that enabled him to take his place in this House. Having listened to the comments he made, one must admit that it was no wonder he went so close to defeat. Imagine the honourable member for Paterson talking about the question of devaluation- or rather revaluation - about which much could be said. 
I thank the honourable member for his help. There is indeed a difference between devaluation and revaluation. We have, of course, experienced revaluation of our currency arising from the devaluation of the United States currency. 
There is a very interesting story to be told, since the honourable member for Balaclava has mentioned the Australian Medical Association. The honourable member well knows that his own Party when in government instituted the nursing homes legislation, and in conjunction with the AMA drew up the form which is the cause of such conflict. While a Liberal government was in office the doctors were very happy to use the form, and now simply because there has been a political change they are taking political action, with no respect whatsoever for the patients. It is at times like these that I am ashamed of my profession. I am diverging from the Address-in-Reply debate, but I should like to speak about a number of social security matters, and the honourable member's interjection was most appropriate. In 1949 the AMA revolted against using the standard prescription forms under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, yet all doctors today use those same standard prescription forms because they are supplied free by the Government and so save them money. These are some of the factors that ought to be considered in relation to our social welfare because they show inconsistencies and, despite the plea of concern for patients, reveal what the true attitudes are. I thank the honourable member for Balaclava for reminding mc of that. 
I return now to the honourable member for Paterson, who spoke with great concern about mineral exports. He spoke of the effects pf the currency changes on contracts written in United States dollars. The late  President  Kennedy in the early" 1960s was pretty worried about the stability of the United States dollar and took steps to try to boost it. It was well known that there were problems about that currency and yet the gentlemen on the other side of the House when in government, in about 1966 applied government pressure on the Reserve Bank so that the mining companies in Western Australia, in the Pilbara, woud have their contracts written in United States dollars. It was part of their "AH the way with LBJ' plan. Now they say that it is the fault of this Government that those mining companies are in strife. What utter nonsense. lt was lack of government assistance, advice and proper support from the previous Government that caused the trouble. 
The honourable member for Patterson spoke also about mainland China. It is rather interesting to recall that as soon as China was recognised by Australia  Mr Murray  Byrne, a Liberal Minister of the Victorian Parliament, went off to China to try to promote trade and tourism between the Liberal controlled State of Victoria and the People's Republic of China. The honourable member then raised the burning question of the damage that could have been done to meat exports to the United States by a recent strike. This is from a man who belongs to the parties which formed the last Government and allowed the adverse meat inspection procedures and the restrictions that were placed on the Australian meat industry. What was he referring to in relation to the interference with this meat export? Only 2 ships - a Shaw Savill ship in Sydney, which was part passenger liner, and one freighter in Melbourne. So how much real concern was there? 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, having been diverted to those questions for far too long may I comment that the most pleasant part of  His  Excellency's Speech is the initial statement: 
Following the clear decision of the people of Australia at the elections for the House of Representatives on 2nd December 1972 and acting upon advice, I commissioned the Leader of the Federal parliamentary Labor Party to form  a  new Government . . . 
His Excellency went on: 
My advisers will now ask this Parliament - itself the fundamental means by which the will of the people can be expressed - to pass legislation embodying  the  central parts of the programme Which the people have instructed them to implement. ' 
I have listened to Opposition speakers to discover whether, they appreciate the breadth and wisdom of the legislative programme that has been outlined, but they seem to be rather more concerned . with post-mortems on why they lost the election. I watched several former Ministers on election night when they conceded defeat, and having had to cop it sweet for a number of years - I learned early in politics never to whinge- -I listened to some of the, most abhorrent whingeing in the world from some of those Ministers who claimed to be the most progressive in the previous Government. It - just shows how poorly progressive the other Ministers were. So much did they whinge that 1 must admit I should like to. congratulate the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  who in conceding defeat did so in a proper and able manner. We had the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  talk about the first Whitlam Ministry of two as being a junta. He well knows that at that stage certain seats were in doubt. He well knows that the Labor Party, unlike the Liberal and Country Party coalition ' Government,- elects its Ministry. It does not rely on cronyism and patronage to fill the positions of Ministers. It was this cronyism and patronage that contributed to the previous Government's downfall, so why does he raise pettifogging criticisms like that. 
It has been suggested- that State governments are upset by the present Federal Labor Government. It seems amazing that in his Speech  His Excellency  could speak of the conference held in the Albury-Wodonga area on growth centres and state that approval has already been given for planning the development of this area to go ahead. From that statement it sounds as though the States are enthusiastic enough. The transport services and railways in the States are receiving consideration by the Commonwealth. I have already mentioned that one Liberal State Minister has taken the opportunity to scarper to China to see that his State gets its slice of the cake. I mention also housing in Victoria and the remarks of the Premier,  Mr Hamer,  and the Minister for Housing,  Mr Dickie,  who has held just about every portfolio in that State. The Victorian Government does not seem to be. able to find one suitable for him. I have had brought to my attention an incident involving the sale of a house by the Housing Commission in my electorate only recently. I am informed that there are grave doubts about whether the purchaser of the house ever lived in it. He held it for a short while, carried out no improvements and then sold it for thousands of dollars profit. Is it any wonder that the Commonwealth Minister for Housing wishes to see low rental housing to be provided for those who are on the three to four-year waiting list for Housing Commission homes in Victoria and to see that Commonwealth money is not made available to build houses for sa'e so that private entrepreneurs can make quite considerable profits. 
Mention was made of the recognition of Bast Germany by this Government, I remind honourable members opposite that the delegation to the Inter-Parliamentary Conference in Rome last year, which comprised representatives of all parties in this Parliament, unanimously supported the admission of East Germany to that organisation. Is it surprising then that the present Government has recognised that country? Let us consider the obsession of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party with security. One wonders what their definition of security is, because so far they have not given it. To them is a person a security risk only because at some time he might have been a communist or even had membership, say, of a youth organisation such as the Eureka Youth League or might have had some association along the line with someone who has what is commonly termed pinkish tendencies, or do the League of Rights or the National Civic Council or any of these organisations which are popular with some of the other members opposite come into the picture? What is the criteria of honourable members opposite for security? Perhaps they would like to tell us. 
In many ways we believe that the security of Cabinet and Government information is tied up with ministerial responsibility. It is for the Minister to decide and be responsible for the safety and security of confidential information in his hands. If he fails in that responsibility he must therefore fall. But one thing for certain is that Australia is one of the most backward of what are called the liberal democracies in its attitude to heads of political parties. Did the present Prime Minister, when Leader of the Opposition, receive any briefing on defence, foreign affairs and other matters, or was he considered a security risk? There has been a lot of sneering about the unsuccessful candidature of  Senator McGovern  against  President  Nixon in the recent United States presidential elections, but at least when the campaign had begun and McGovern became the endorsed candidate for his party, he was taken by presidential advisers and given a full briefing on all aspects of national policy. So perhaps the Opposition should think about what it means by security. 
The Government proposes a wide ranging programme about which I would like to have said much more but, as I indicated, I was diverted from my primary objectives by some earlier interjections. We have proposed changing overseas relationships. We want respect and co-operation not only from major associates and allies but also from our neighbours in South East Asia. As is stated in  His  Excellency's Speech, we want to have discussions with Australia's neighbours, friends and allies on ways of developing new arrangements for regional co-operation free from military or idealogical overtones. I think that is a very important point. 
I have always deplored the concept of political prisoners or prisoners of conscience in any country of whatever political persuasion. I think that in making these approaches the Australian Government has a particular responsibility in South Vietnam. Part of that perhaps stems from a guilt complex by the people for our unnecessary involvement there. But there are political and prisoners of conscience in that country who are in the most deplorable situations. I have had a recent approach from a representative of the Young Student Christian Movement who spoke to me of the incarceration of a number of YCW members in South Vietnamese prisons. 
I feel compassion for prisoners of conscience or political prisoners in any country. But in South Vietnam we are supposed to have a particular influence, yet we countenance the incarceration of members of the YCW. The YCW leaders who were arrested in South Vietnam were found not guilty by court martial on 18th November 1972, but they were not released. On top of that, on 26th December they were deported to Poulo Condor Island. Their health was so bad that they had to be carried on stretchers. 

 So this dreadful story could go on to cover the tortures that were inflicted in the prison on that island. The techniques are more refined, according to a statement I have, for political prisoners. They include intense beating of the soles of the feet, the legs and the chest; electrical shock; soapy water, dirty oils and garbage being forced into the mouths of prisoners, provoking vomiting through the nose; periods in water-filled metal tanks which when struck can cause effects to be felt in the internal organs. So it goes on. Women and young girls have special attention, being raped by the insertion of coca bottles and live eels in the genital organs. To these physical tortures is added the torture of humiliating persons in order to destroy the human qualities in them. This is what faced representatives of the YCW who were trying to do work in a country which has grave troubles and a country in which we have accepted special responsibilities and from which we ought to expect special responses. 
Go back to your camels. I hope that the Government will seriously exam-, kie this matter to see whether an amnesty can be provided for these political prisoners who have been so badly treated in a country with which we have a special relationship. I join with my fellow members in saying how much hope the Governor-General's speech raises for, the future of Australia and, as one of the members of this House, I look forward to playing a part in its fruition. 
I ask the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation whether his attention has been drawn to a recent statement regarding the deaths of people in air crashes being due to cyanide gas, carbon monoxide and other gases from burning curtains, seat covers and so on, even though those people have survived impact. If so, has his Department investigated the matter to determine what articles give off such toxic substances? What steps are proposed to be taken by the Department to reduce the risks from these causes? 
Order! Before I call the honourable member for Evans I remind the House that this is his maiden speech. I trust that honourable members will extend to him the usual courtesies. 

Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
High Court the Chief Justice  Sir Garfield  Barwick said, in part: 
The selection of a minimum age for voting was a legislative matter and clearly not a judicial function. 
Of course, we support that opinion of the Chief Justice. That is one of the reasons why it is fitting for me to congratulate the Minister for Services and Property this afternoon for having the foresight to introduce this measure into the House in the early days of the Labor Government. We do not intend to shirk any responsibility. Let me remind the honourable member for Kooyong that the enlightenment of the electorate, as shown in the last election, which returned a Labor government, certainly will be rewarded by measures, of which this measure is typical. The need to lower the voting age was far too progressive a step for the previous Government to take, hesitant and indecisive as we knew it to be. As I have said, it endeavoured to throw the responsibility onto the court, but in the clearest terms the Chief Justice rejected that responsibility and threw it back to this Parliament where it belongs. 
It is interesting to note the wide cross-section of opinion which supports action such as that which we are considering today. 1 quote from a statement reported in the 'Australian* of 17th July last by Father Dethlefs who was at that time a full time chaplain of the Young Christian Students Movement in Queensland. Father Dethlefs was- commenting on a statement that had been made in Brisbane the previous week by the then Prime Minister that the voting age would not be reduced for last year's Federal election. Father Dethlefs said: 
Ten years ago a case could not be made out for voting at 18. But times have changed. 
They give the impression a youth of 18 can handle the responsibility of voting quite well. 
From the age of 13 or so students are discussing pollution and a wide range of social issues their counterparts would never have dreamed of. 
We realise this fact, and we realise that in these changing times many young people who have reached the age of 18, who have left school and who have accepted the responsibility of assisting in the support of their families and in the payment of taxes from their incomes should be given the opportunity to receive the franchise and to have some say in the election of people from their own age group, if they so desire, to this Parliament to assist in the decision making of the nation. 
So we axe pleased to have accepted the responsibility to introduce this legislation which will bring Australia up to date with a great number of countries throughout the world. It is my pleasant duty, in supporting this measure, to say that we were not anxious to take action to introduce a measure such as this without giving due consideration to the need for it. Having given due consideration to the need for it and having expressed clearly our intentions in support of it many times in the past, on the first occasion that we have had an opportunity to bring this measure before the Parliament we have done so. I support wholeheartedly the Bill. I hope that all honourable members, particularly those on the other side, continue to express support of the Bill. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - (Quorum formed.) I thank the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  for his assistance. I trust that I will be able  to  reciprocate in like manner on a number  of  occasions. In following the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  in debating these Appropriation Bills one must pay him respect for the submission that he made and which has been documented because it contains a considerable amount of detail from a variety of sources and it deserves a proper analysis if it is to be properly answered. This is not possible to do in directly following him in the debate. However, there were some points that he made which  I  was happy  to  hear. For example, I was pleased  to  hear him remark on the happy state of the economy and the rate of Australian development.  I  would agree with him on this but  I  differ with him as  to  the reason for the happy state  of  the economy and the rate  of  Australian development. 
There is no doubt that in Australia today the stimulus of the new Gobernment. the new confidence that the public, industry, commerce and working people have in their country arises from this change which is in strange contrast to that of the previous Administration. We have heard the old canard with regard to the arbitration system that here there should be Government interference at all times against any increases being given to the working people in wages and conditions. I am sure that we as the Australian Government are confident that this information is available to the court and that it will be used in making a decision. It seems natural for the right honourable member for Lowe to equate shorter working hours with reduced productivity. Of course this is something with which obviously the majority of the Australian people do not agree. 
The honourable member reminds me that it has been proved wrong because there are such things as greater efficiency and such things as developments in technology. I could go on and list many factors that are concerned in this and why there should not be this fear that the Opposition and its supporters try to inculcate in the community. Mention was made of the efforts of the last Administration to help the less fortunate members of the community. I believe that in the Government's program there is a much sounder basis for benefits for the less fortunate members of the community than was ever shown in the last 23 years. 
My last comment on what was said by the right honourable member for Lowe refers to what he had to say about the 27 Ministers of the Australian Government and their activities. The members of the Government Party are proud of the fact that we have 27 Ministers who all meet together to make decisions on such matters as those for which these Bills will provide the finance to carry out. They all meet together and play a part in those decisions. There is no inner 11 and there is no outer 11 determined by the vagaries of one man or perhaps 2 men or perhaps outside influences. These 27 men who act as Ministers are elected by their fellows, supported by their fellows and they jointly make decisions to help govern the country. 
In dealing with these Appropriation Bills I note that there are large sums of money for a variety of departments. Those of us who have served in the Parliament before know that these Appropriation Bills show a greater variety of departments, new concepts of appropriation of money for departments which will allow the new policies of this Government to be brought forward and carried out to the benefit of Australia. For example, one is the Department of Environment and Conservation. I remind honourable members that under the last Administration the Department of the Environment was almost the ministry of odds and sods. It was tucked away with a small staff and it had very little purpose or real effect. It is pleasing to see that this Department has been given individuality and a structure of its own to deal with the very real problems that it will have to deal with in our community today. It is no longer one of the odds and sods. It has a really increased role. It has a reality about it. It will be able to deal with the problems of air and water pollution. It will be able to co-ordinate with other departments in urban and regional development. It will have a real effect on wildlife conservation which so far has received little purposive treatment. 
A matter I wish to raise in this debate ties in with the activities of expenditure relating to assistance given to local government. I refer to the problem of the solid waste mess in our community today because it is a matter that is tended to be overlooked. We have air pollution and water pollution control but we have forgotten about garbage and the problems it brings with it. The reason we tend to overlook it is that so much of it is related to the local government level. So much is left to local authorities to find the holes and areas of land to be reclaimed - all sorts of subterfuges are made - to get rid of the millions and millions of tons of solid waste which we create. I quote a statement by Art Buchwald made in 1970. He said: 
And Man created the plastic bag and the tin and aluminium can and the cellophane wrapper and the paper plate, and this was good because Man could then take his automobile and buy all his food in one place and He could save that which was good to eat in the refrigerator and throw away that which had no further use. And soon the earth was covered with plastic bags and aluminium cans and paper plates and disposable bottles and there was nowhere to sit down or walk, and Man shook his head and cried: Look at this Godawful mess.' 
This is one of the problems we face in this aspect of the environment. What we  throw  away does not go away. Active measures will have to be taken to solve this problem. I trust that this Department will have a look at this problem. There are certain things that can be done. One is to implement recycling. But here again the economics of recycling are rather a problem. In theory a recycling centre that operated at a loss would still be a net gain as long as the cost was lower than the former cost of disposing of the waste conventionally. The real problem here is what I was talking about before. This Government hopes to assist local government. It is with local government that the disposal of solid waste rests. So, it is very hard to convince other bodies that recycling is an economic proposition. I believe that in this Department we have a hope that sound measures may be taken to cope with the problem. 
The Appropriation Bill once again shows substantial expenditures proposed by the Department of Education. One must even give some credit to the previous administration in that in the last few years the Australian Parliament has played an increasing role in education. I think some side effects must be considered by the Government when dealing with education.  A  great deal of public investment has gone into education and we should be examining the return to the public from that investment. 
In late January of this year a conference  nf  the Australian and Ne,v Zealand Student Health Association and the Australian  Association  of University Counsellors was told that hoth student counsellors and physicians should check students who sought to drop "tit from tertiary education. This might well also apply to those students who fail exams at this level. Not only dropouts but also failures should be checked because the education  nf  those students, particularly those who have reached the later years of their courses, represents an enormous public investment. At the moment universities vary a great deal in the treatment that they give to dropouts and failures. Despite the fact that much has been spent on them there is very little activity in certain areas to endeavour to salvage these young people and what they have learnt and to allow them to use their knowledge in the community. 
It may be that our universities are not geared and financed to give this type of help. I trust that in the future we will see in the appropriations for the Department of Education a sum set aside for this purpose. I believe there is much waste in the community today, particularly with later year students who for some reason or other fall by the wayside and find themselves unable to be employed in a great variety of categories in the community. lt is perhaps fitting that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  should be sitting at the table at present because one of the problems in the Australian community is, it is suggested, a relative shortage of doctors. Twenty-six of the 108 medical schools in the United States have decided that medical courses could be shortened by up to one year by a reduction in holiday and vacation periods. I realise that academics probably would resist this suggestion because they are interested not only in administration and teaching but also in research work. This reduction would restrict their research work. But when there is a high community need such as we saw during and after the Second World War courses may be, and are, shortened. During that period it was possible to supply good graduates in shorter time. This is another matter which I should like to see covered in Appropriation Bills. We should properly finance the shortening of these courses. 
We have seen recently a statement that this Government, through its Department of Health, wishes the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to expand into the pharmaceutical industry. A strong comment by a former Liberal member of this House appeared in the Australian Medical Association Gazette warning the Government against planning to expand its activities into the pharmaceutical industry. Indeed, it even threatened the Government as to what would happen to the supply of pharmaceuticals. I belive that we should press on with the development of the CSL expanding well into the pharmaceutical industry. No longer should it be a restricted organisation whose main task is to supply the unprofitable sera and vaccines and other products which the commercial pharmaceutical companies will not produce, supply and sell. The sort of blackmailing attitude that is taken in that article in the AMA Gazette of 8th March 1973 is to be deplored. I am sure that it is something the Australian people do not want. They reject the basic argument in support of it. 
Yes. I have been a member of the AMA for many years. I have expressed my views to members of the AMA for many years. In my own State, my fellow members of the AMA respect my right to state those views. 
I am just clarifying the issue. 1 have not hidden my light under a bushel on these matters and I will not hide my light under a bushel but will continue to criticise and to press for changes in the usually conservative attitude that I find in the medical profession. 1 should like now to refer in passing to a matter in regard to the Department of Health, and that is the provision of home kidney dialysis machines. These are machines that largely are imported and attract customs duty. They cost some $5,000 to supply to the individual to use in the home. Such a machine in the home enables that individual to lead a relatively normal working life. Little help has so far been given by the Commonwealth Government to these individuals. One concession has been made in the supply of dialysis fluid. No assistance is given with respect to the supply of machines, blood, membranes or drugs that are necessary. I suggest that if we took some action in this regard the savings that we would make in pensions paid to such individuals would very easily cover the concessions that are made. 
I am proud to speak on these Appropriation Bills in this first term of the Whitlam Government. I look forward to speaking on many more such Bill in the future. I know that the next set of Appropriation Bills will indicate the very real advances that are being made in policies and conditions for the ordinary people in the community. 
Has the Minister for Education any recent information available on the number of dropouts and failures in each year of each school or faculty of each Australian university or other tertiary institutions? Can this information be made available to honourable members? Is any follow-up done of such failures and dropouts to ascertain whether they transferred to other courses or whether use is made of the training such students have received? In view of the large expenditure of private and public moneys involved with such students, will the Minister consider an investigation into the various aspects of the problem? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! The honourable member has made his point of order. Fatherly advice is outside the point of order. I invite the honourable member for Macarthur to continue his address on the motion before the House. 
Profits are not a result  of  increases  in  productivity, but  of  a system  of  land use which is shortview  in  outlook and becomes  exploitative of  the soil,'  Mr Kelly  said in his submission to the Committee. 
The beef cattle industry needs its interests looked after and I am sure that the Minister for Northern Development is well aware of them. The turnoff in 1969-70 was 260,000 head of cattle with a value of $22m. Seasonal factors caused a drop in the value of output to $ 18.6m in 1970-71. Beef is the second most important industry in the Northern Territory after minerals. Of interest are the plans for the development of buffalo farming on the coastal plain area. 
There are also many problems in primary industry which are peculiar to the Northern Territory and which could be referred to the Committee. The Minister for Minerals and Energy also will be concerned with some aspects of mineral production which was worth some $38. 6m to the Northern Territory in 1969-70. A slight drop is expected in 1970- 71. It is estimated that the value of mineral production will be $200m by 1980, most of which will be earned by bauxite, manganese and uranium. I used to think that the agricultural potential of some parts of the Northern Territory was symbolised by the presence of the world's biggest rock. But the Northern Territory does have a vast tourist potential and I am sure that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  will optimise opportunities available on behalf of all Australians. Alice Springs is the hub of a secrets industry but increasingly, I think, the Northern Territory will assume more defence importance. As I understand the decision of the past Government, the stationing of Fill aircraft at Amberley means that we will be able to attack Townsville. We could do this equally well by stationing aircraft and Air Force units at Darwin. I believe the Northern Territory will assume greater defence importance. 
The Opposition may claim that this Bill is only a question of degree but I doubt whether this can be said. The Committee will be referring more proposals to the Minister. In October last year the former Minister for the Interior transferred a wide range of functions to the Northern Territory Legislature and Executive. These functions included a wide range of community services and State functions and a lot of control over many forms of social legislation including, for example, workers compensation, gambling, censorship, consumer protection, the rights of women, the rights of minors, daylight saving and control of firearms. A wide range of measures was referred at that time. What the present proposal seeks to do is set up ways and means whereby the Parliament can be informed of the needs of the Northern Territory, discuss any matter referred to the Committee and report on all matters for further action. The Northern Territory legislature is still absorbing the last range of propoals and the proposed Joint Committee will in no way inhibit further rapid progress. There are many projects on which the Northern Territory legislature is well equipped to pass judgment and these include development projects involving public expenditure which can be referred to the Minister for the Northern Territory. At present most functions of the legislature are related to legal-governmental decisions rather than works programs. 
There are many future development projects which I can see being referred to the Joint Committee quite apart from the many other projects being carried out by various other Commonwealth departments as at present. However, the most important matters which the Committee will be discussing will involve many social problems in the Northern Territory, problems such as education and Aborigines and problems intrinsic to the Northern Territory such as land tenure, mining leases and other related matters. Darwin provides a study in itself in social integration and much can be learned by all Australians from the harmony of its inhabitants. I commend the motion to the House and am sure that we all look forward to the result of this Committee's deliberations as part of the advancement of the Northern Territory. 
ls the amendment seconded? 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ashley-Brown)  adjourned. 
I invite the honourable member to return to the provisions of the Bill before the House. 
I turn to a few other problems. I was talking about the long term effects of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement which is mentioned in the second reading speech. We note that several Ministers in the State governments, including the Minister of Housing in Victoria, the Minister for Housing in Queensland and some Labor Ministers in South Australia and in Western Australia are most unhappy about the emphasis that the Federal Minister for Housing, speaking on behalf of the Labor Government, is placing on the fact that the money to be made available under the 5-year Housing Agreement must be spent to a large degree on the construction of rental housing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
As the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  remarked, the 3 main issues covered in these Bills deal with aid to needy students at universities and colleges of advanced education, increased finance for the training of social workers over the next 3 years at the universities of Sydney and Melbourne and the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education, and provisions for libraries in colleges of advanced education. It should be obvious that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  should be congratulated for what has been a very rapid response to an urgent situation. It would be admitted that the measures taken in these Bills do not solve all the problems in these particular areas but they serve as a start to cover the urgent problems that exist. Future planning will go on and we will see that the advantage gained from these measures is projected to its fullest. 
In talking about needy students the honourable member for Chisholm started to speak about different categories and point out that there might be only a small group of students who at some particular time needed a small amount of money to assist them on to the completion of courses. I may be unfair to the honourable member but I felt there was a certain amount of elitism at a tertiary level in his remarks. It may well be that the most urgent needs for helping students go right back to the primary school level in a number of States, but one hopes that the various commissions that are now investigating the matter will deal with this particular subject. 
I wish to make some passing comments on the question of needy students. The La Trobe University lies within my electorate of Scullin and at the beginning of this year a number of students of that university approached me asking what avenues of financial assistance existed for them. They were without university scholarships. Some of them had failed subjects and so had forfeited their university scholarships, others were trying to carry on courses at a part time level, and others were unable to obtain living allowances because of problems of parental and domestic relationships. It is very difficult to give appropriate advice in these circumstances because of the restrictive nature of the means test for the allowances covered by university scholar ships. I had no doubt that in many of these instances there was a real severance of the student from the home for a number of reasons, including the lack of parental understanding of what further tertiary studies meant. There were many other reasons. But the very rigidity of the testing for the living allowances prevented many students from receiving assistance. Another matter was the state of the student loan funds at the respective universities. Because of the restriction on the amount available to the students the amount was quite insufficient for them to be able to support themselves. Another factor was that many of these student loan funds attract repayment, require guarantors and are subject to a number of other conditions which many of these young people could not meet. 
A wide number of factors create needy students, lt is not only economic need. A lot of it is social need as such. Some of it is due to psychological and other environmental factors which require services other than money. I agree that this measure is a great help to many of those individuals who approached me with their problems but, unfortunately, the lack of information in the university system does not allow one to make a proper judgment at this time on how effective will be the awarding of finance to needy students. The honourable member for Chisholm mentioned that universities might be the best bodies to know where such financial help is needed. This is so only if a proper system has been developed for acquiring knowledge of the students undertaking courses. It seems to me that the proper place for that to start is with the student right at the beginning of his course at the university or college of advanced education. Yet this seems to be the time when students are at their loneliest and when their problems are least understood or looked into. However, I appreciate that the step we are now taking has been taken as an emergency measure. I know that the Minister is conscious of these and other problems and will be thoroughly investigating the case of students who are needy because of economic or other reasons. 
I should like to deal with the matter of the grants for training of social workers at the 2 universities and at the college of advanced education. These grants, which will be disposed of over a period of 3 years, will make a real difference in supplying an increased number of social workers, although I doubt whether the increased number in itself will satisfy the demands. A number of institutions hoped to instigate courses in social work but because of lack of finance for staff and facilities were forced to forego them. The Preston Institute of Technology, which is well known to me, was one of them. Despite the fact that many of the social workers who are entering the social work course already have a primary degree, I wonder whether we are not reaching' the stage of social development where there is a need for a greater degree of specialisation in the courses offered to (hem or whether they can in fact in their 3 year course hope to cover the whole scope of social work. 
One can list the obvious reasons that are given for the need for a greater  number  of social workers and social worker trainees. They are needed in schools. Quite recently 1 received a letter from one of the primary schools in my electorate which operates in a relatively economically and socially deprived area asking whether urgent assistance could be given for a social worker to work in conjunction with the staff of that school. Of "course, no formal channels exist by which this could be done. This is a very difficult question to raise publicly because while the people living in this area might be economically and socially deprived they are also human beings who possess that human quality of pride, and if one were to name the institution it would react against public agitation and pressures to obtain social workers in the primary school situation. 
A similar problem exists in relation to hospitals and health and the disposition of elderly patients and the chronically ill, for which social workers are needed. The development of community health centres will create a greater demand for them. It came to my mind in discussing the need for this greater number of social workers that there was one point we were missing and it was a point that was raised at the international conference on social work in 1966. Indeed, it was the subject of that conference, lt was the question of the urbanisation of our society and' the role that social workers must play in the urbanisation of society. The emphasis was on the need for inter-disciplinary planning so that the new towns that are being developed and the new urban complexes that are proposed are socially balanced. To do this requires the role of social workers. 
Debate interrupted. 
I have received a message from the Senate acquainting the House that the Senate does not insist on the modifications made by the Senate with which the House has disagreed, and has agreed to the modifications made by the House in place thereof. 
I have received a message from the Senate acquainting the House that the Senate does not insist on the modifications made by the Senate with which the House has disagreed, and has agreed to the modifications made by the House in place thereof. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
AUSTRALIAN SHIPBUILDING 
(Statement by the Minister for Transport and 
Minister for Civil Aviation, the Honourable C. K. Jones, M.P.) 
The Australian Minister for Transport,  Mr C.  K. Jones said today it was apparent that the flow of orders for Australian shipyards was on the upswing as a result of the positive steps taken by the present Government to revive the industry. 
This week, an Australian shipowner advised me he was planning to call tenders for 2 ships of about 30,000-40,000 tons in the very near future',  Mr Jones  said. 'I am not at liberty to divulge the name of the shipowner at this stage - but this advice is clear evidence that the Australian Government's shipbuilding policies are starting to have the desired effect.' 

 Mr Jones pointed out that since coming to office, the Australian Governent had: 
Instigated a comprehensive review of the industry. 
Offered 25 per cent subsidy to Union Steamship to build 2 roll-on/roll-off vessels in Australia for the trans-Tasman trade. 
Given an assurance to Evans Deakin Ltd that it would not recapture subsidy on the proposed oil drilling rig for the Santa Fe Co. 
Announced tenders would be called shortly for a 70,000-ton replacement for ANL's Tolgra'. 
Announced 2 further orders would be placed shortly by ANL: 
One as a replacement for 'North Esk'. 
The other a further vessel for the Tas-  manian trade. 
Called tenders for an oceanographic vessel for the Navy. 
Announced tenders would be called shortly for a navigational aid vessel for the Department of Transport. 
Advised it expected several companies to announce plans to build vessels and oil rigs in Australia. 
Permitted the import of three 100,000-ton vessels for the coastal trade on condition that orders for equivalent tonnage were placed with Australian shipyards. 
Asked ANL and HHP to get together to design a standard ship for the bulk trades. 
Announced a decision to reserve the coastal trade to Australian-built ships. 
The Government was also seeking an equitable share of the overseas trades for Australian bottoms. 
In these circumstances, I am disturbed at the lack of confidence shown in the future of the industry by certain shipyard managements. There is every reason for optimism but 2 yards have announced their closure',  Mr. Jones  said. 'One of these is Evans Deakin. 
Too often the unions are blamed as the sole reason for a yard's closure. Certainly, the unions have not been blameless and must accept their share of the responsibility. However, in these situations management must also accept its share of the responsibility, too. 
The Australian Government has gone a long way towards assisting Evans Deakin',  Mr Jones  said. "We have provided the guarantees requested by that company for the Santa Fe rig. We have announced various proposals for new orders. We are undertaking a comprehensive review of the industry to develop positive policies. 
These are the facts. Evans Deakin should stop looking back into the past and look to the future',  Mr Jones  said. "There is a new Australian Government taking positive steps to get the industry moving. The Company should recognise this and gel out into the market place and compete for the orders that are becoming available. 
Their present stance is not improving their commercial image. They have work and there are sufficient orders about for them to be assured of continuity of work. They should gel on with the job',  Mr Jones  said. 
I wish to round off my remarks which I commenced in this cognate debate last night. I was speaking of the need for social workers to be used in broader aspects than we have been accustomed to and I had commented on their role in a society of increasing urbanisation. I made mention of the International Conference on social work in 1966 which had this topic as its theme. One of its concepts was that specially equipped social workers should be members of town planning teams. I should like to quote from an address to the Victorian Branch of the Australian Association of Social Workers which was given in regard to this conference. The address stated: 
One of the speakers (Whitney Young) called for 'an excess of caring and decency'. He suggested that social workers as a 'prime civilising force, must compel world society to recognise that people die inwardly from being nameless and faceless, from not having roots in the community - from having to react endlessly to a thousand small uncaring ways'. 
Therefore in the development of communities a great deal of attention must be given to ensuring that people are not nameless and faceless. One hopes in view of the rapid response that the Minister for Education has made in supplying finance for the training of social workers that the money will be used to produce social workers capable of dealing with this type of situation. It seems that at present social workers are considered to be those who deal with social evils or ills that arise as the end product of circumstances in society. This should not be their role. Their role should be more in the area of preventing things going wrong and even, as 1 have mentioned, in assisting with the planning of social services to prevent happenings among the ordinary people in the community. 
This is a continuation of some of the remarks which I made last night. I commend the Minister for his early recognition of the need. I believe that the Government, which has put forward a number of propositions that will require an increased use of social workers, has done the right thing. In this respect I trust that assistance, which on this occasion goes to the University of Sydney, the University of Melbourne and to the Tasmanian Advanced College of Education, will in the near future be extended to other institutions which can serve a useful purpose in training social workers. 
I wish to address myself briefly to this Bill. Like the previous  speaker,  I commend the additional $10m that the Bill makes available for technical training in the States and the fact that it is in addition to the previous Government's program which runs until the end of June next year. One of the problems a member of the Australian Parliament has in discussing technical training is the different approaches to technical training in the States. There are a number of different points of view. One concerned with Victorian technical education could say that the great feature in that State is the very early streaming of students in Victoria into the technical stream as compared with the commercial and professional streams. One of the results of this has been that there is too heavy a load of remedial work in the technical training sphere. This has been reflected in the number of the technical schools that will benefit from these grants, particularly in the suburban areas. It is a most unsatisfactory position and one hopes that Victoria which in the past, through its Liberal Government, has shown a great lack of ability to spend the funds that are available to it in education will see that these funds are used to correct some of these situations. 
Despite this previous inability to spend moneys available to it for education, the Victorian Government is offering, in its current election program, new expenditure of $72m for education. From this Bill it receives a substantial sum that can be used for furthering technical education. However I would remind honourable members that the Bill provides that if the Federal Minister finds that the finance will not be used in any State for the purposes of furthering technical education he can direct that that finance be used elsewhere. With the state of technical training in Victoria it would be a great pity if that State did not use its full allocation. 
One of the areas in which this Bill allows the use of finance is the acquisition of land. In the education field in Victoria there has been a great reluctance to acquire land for the future needs of technical training - in areas where technical training will be needed. There is much evidence of the growth of population from which students will be drawn. There is ample information about the types of industries and the types of occupations that will be available to those areas. Yet in those areas money is not spent on acquiring land until the very last minute. Consequently one often sees a technical institution established on an area of land bought at a price which, if forward sight had been shown, would have paid not only for the land and the school but also for a couple of other schools as well. It is well that this Bill allows for the acquisition of land. This may cause the Victorian Government to show a more enlightened attitude and look to the future of technical training in that State. 
This finance may also be used for SUPPLYING some of the essentials in technical schools. I speak particularly of the Victorian situation because its technical training is, from discussions that I have had with colleagues and from an examination of the situation in other States, somewhat different. Very few of the schools are properly equipped with gymnasia and assembly halls which are proper parts of any technical training institution. However none of these institutions seem to be short of canteens which are used as commercial fund raising enterprises to excuse the State Education Departments from supplying essential equipment and to force voluntary bodies - the parents, the school councils and others - to work and even to employ staff to raise money in a commercial way to support a sagging training system. At the outset I said that I would be brief. I am delighted that technical training in the various States will receiye this extra $10m over and above that provided in the previous Government's program. I only hope that in the State from which I hail it will be put to much better use than it has been put in the past. 
 I remind honourable members that the Bill before the House refers to prescribed rivers and indeed lists those prescribed rivers; so the debate is not as restricted as it would appear to be at first. 
The success of the scheme has been enormous. I believe that low lying areas in the river basins would have been depopulated and would not have had the productivity they now have if flood mitigation had not come into being. In the areas I know so well - that is, in the Tweed and Richmond basins - land along the lower rivers has been developed very extensively into sugar cane growing areas which are as productive as any other areas in Australia. Production has expanded considerably to make the mills efficient. This would not have been possible without flood mitigation. The flood mitigation scheme puts the onus on the land holders in the areas to which it applies. They have a levy imposed on them by local government authorities to pay part of the cost. I believe that this is a good system. They are just not sitting back and expecting somebody else to pay for the increased benefit to the area. 
I shall deal now with the amount of finance that is involved. The scheme at first was to cost $5.5m for the 6-year period from 1964 to 1969. Unfortunately, because of rising costs and amendments to the proposals put forward, a supplementary grant had to be given, taking the amount up to S8m for that first period of operation. In 1971 a new act was brought into being which enabled the scheme to be expanded to cover not only the first 5 rivers that were accepted but also a number of other rivers which are included in this Bill, that is, the Bellinger, the Hawkesbury, the Moruya and the Hastings Rivers. This has enabled other people to receive the benefit of the scheme. Apparently because the 3 creeks named in this Bill were not immediately adjacent or connected to the Tweed River but were associated with the scheme there was some delay in having them included, but I compliment the Government for reconsidering the matter and having these 3 creeks, which are part of an overall river system, included in the legislation so that payment may be made -for the flood mitigation development that has taken place already on 2 of the creeks. The work done has enabled a satisfactory outlet into the sea by the provision of break walls, drainage work and flood gates along the creeks. I think that the most important question about the new flood mitigation proposals is whether the $9m now provided- 
Order! I remind the honourable member that the Bill under discussion is the Cities Commission Bill. He has had considerable latitude throughout the debate. I suggest that he might return to the Bill. 
Again I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that it is not only on his side of the 
House that concern is felt for urban problems; concern is felt also on this side. Unless the Minister is prepared to take us into his confidence a little more and tell us what he is doing we will not be able to help him with what I feel he would regard as valuable suggestions. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. During the previous Parliament I suggested the setting up of a museum or a collection of articles showing Australia's immigration program and its history. Has the Minister's Department taken any steps to ensure preservation of documents and other articles relevant to migration programs during Australia's history? If not, will the Minister take steps to have this carried out? Will the Minister investigate the possibility of such a collection and museum showing the history of Australia's immigration program being set up as has been done in the United States? 
I enter the debate this morning to speak on some matters of health, particularly as they affect my home State of Victoria. I am stimulated to do so by a letter I received from the Liberal Party of Victoria on Monday, which reads: 
Dear  Dr Jenkins, 
The importance of the State Election, to be held on the 19th May, to the people of Victoria, and indeed the whole of Australia cannot be over estimated. 
Australia is a federation and the states have the responsibility for most of the activities which are closest to the lives of people - Education, Health, Housing, Conservation and a wide range of others. Federal aid is welcome in all fields, and through our taxation system is essential. But it should not be used as a blunt instrument to dictate policy, or more especially, a centralised socialist doctrine. 
In no field is this dictatorship more obvious than in Health Services. A victory for the Hamer Government in May will serve notice on the Federal Labor Government that the people of Victoria do not want dictatorship from Canberra. 
Our fully researched, professional campaign is now in motion and we know that Liberal voters all over Victoria are prepared to give us their financial backing. We need $200,000 to promote the ideal that What really matters is people and that what has to be done is to safeguard the freedom of the individual'. 
Will you help us  Doctor  Jenkins? Please fill in the enclosed card and send us your donation. 
It was signed by the State President and State Treasurer. For a fully researched, professional campaign it is a particularly inept letter. Because of the matters contained in it, it is obviously a misrepresentation of the relationship that occurs between the Australian Parliament and the State Parliaments. It is misrepresentative in the sense that while it admits that the States have a responsibility in those activities which are closest to the lives of the people - it names education, health, housing and conservation - it does not mention that these are fields in which the Victorian Parliament would have one of the worst records in Australia. 
To me the letter was offensive personally. In fact, only my natural courtesy prevented me from sending the appropriate answer in the envelope that was enclosed. I served for nearly 9 years in the Victorian Parliament, and it was the failure of the Victorian Government do deal with activities concerning the people of Victoria that led me to believe that only in the national Parliament could one achieve some benefit. If the tone of this letter is correct, does it mean that the Premier of Victoria will reject any of the help which Victoria would receive through the operations of the national health insurance scheme or through the Australian Hospitals Commission that has been set up? Will he refuse to receive finance to prop up the sagging hospital services and health services in Victoria? For years it was pointed out to the Liberal Government in Victoria how poor Victoria's general hospital system was, with overcrowded casualty departments with long waiting times and manned by the most junior of medical officers, and a lack of beds in areas of acute need. This applies to the very densely populated areas such as the western suburbs of Melbourne. The Victorian Government's record is disgraceful in this respect. Seven or eight years ago when I talked in the Victorian Parliament of rehabilitatory services the then Government laughed about such services and did nothing about them. Now suddenly at election time it has started what I think is called a  Sir Henry  Bolte rehabilitation wing at St Vincent's Hospital in Melbourne. I hope that the Victorian people will support that rehabilitation wing, because after all it might rehabilitate some of the health services that  Sir Henry  Bolte, as Premier of Victoria, allowed to run down so sadly. 
An announcement was made about mental health. These promises are made at State election after State election in Victoria. The Victorian Government always says that more will be provided in the mental health field. Promises, promises! In the last 3 election campaigns the Colac residential training centre for the mentally retarded has been mentioned. Only a few weeks ago the Premier of Victoria laid the foundation stone for that institution in Colac after so many years of promises. I understand that it was a symbolic foundation stone which was placed in a symbolic wall, and that it has been stored away in a suitable shed to be reinserted when the building commences properly. In Victoria there is a waiting list of 2,000 for residential places for mentally retarded children. Five hundred of these cases are considered most urgent. Despite the warnings and the arguments that have been put forward not only in the Victor ian Parliament but also by people interested in this field, this list has grown and grown. How can one expect anyone associated with health services to support a government that has made so many promises yet has done so little? 
There is a great lag even in the provision of day centres for the mentally retarded. Parents, who are already financially and economically deprived, have to work to make their large donations not only towards the construction costs of these day centres but also towards the day to day costs. The waiting list for beds in geriatric hospitals has grown and grown and the waiting time is now 3i to 4 years. The waiting list contains more individuals than there are beds for such patients in that State. This is the record of health services that I was asked, in this letter, to support. As I said, I found it personally offensive on the ground that, after battling for many years in that State to see these matters rectified, so little action has been taken except for making vague and empty promises at the time of each election. Now they are being repeated again. The 5-year program for the mentally retarded that will give an extra 846 places will not even touch the present needs, let alone cope with the growth in population. 
I believe that the people of Victoria will see through these promises after such a long time and will reject this type of fallacious argument that is being put up. If  Mr Hamer  does not intend to accept this type of assistance, it would be better if he were at least honest and said that he will not accept that type of assistance. Only through proper and professionally researched examination of health services can we expect to see well financed health services in Victoria. Unless there is to be a fully researched and professional approach, as the campaign committee and authors of this letter suggest, the program certainly will not produce health services of the standard that is required. I felt that I should bring this matter to the notice of the Australian Parliament because it is a reflection on the very forward thinking that is being done in the Australian Parliament at present in the field of health. 
Is the Treasurer aware that the Federal Branch of the Australian Medical Association has circularised all its members requesting donations of $100 or more to a fund whose purpose will be to prevent a health scheme being introduced for the benefit of patients? Will such donations be allowable deductions for taxation purposes either as a charitable donation or as a cost of medical practice? If a group designed to protect the rights of patients was formed, would solicited donations for such a group be tax deductible? 
My question, addressed to the Acting Attorney-General, arises from a question asked yesterday by the honourable member for Macquarie of the Minister for Social Security. It concerns the plight of persons who sometimes are required to pay large sums of money as premiums in order to gain occupancy of home unit type accommodation. In situations of this sort where there is an inequality of bargaining power, is it the Government's intention to take any action which might redress the imbalance that so often causes hardship? 
Order! The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is making this speech, not other members of the House. 
I wish to make a few remarks about this subject just to sound a warning. I appreciate the points raised by the 2 previous speakers, but I recall what happened with the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. The popular attitude of honourable members was that it had become a 'save the kangaroo committee'. In fact its field was much wider than that. I want to sound a warning about this new committee. I appreciate what the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  said about interstate and even international agreements on wildfowl and what the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  said about conservation, but this commitee is to be an environment and conservation committee. The terms of reference relate to the environmental aspects of legislative and administrative measures. I hope that the House in passing the recommendation for such a committee will accept that it will not be a committee that deals only with wildlife measures, whether they relate to flora or fauna, it is to deal with the wider environmental aspects as they affect man. After all, this is why we are here - to look after the well being of man, to preserve the environment that he enjoys and to make the greatest use of our natura] resources without ravaging them and leaving the place in an awful mess for coming generations. 
I rose to sound that warning. This is to be en environment and conservation committee which is to deal with the broadest aspects of the environment. I trust the House will support it in this full sense. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="085131197308231_44_1.jpg"></graphic>

My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration and I was reminded of it by the condolence motion on Tuesday for the late Arthur Calwell. Has the Minister taken any action on my suggestion advanced by question without notice on 16 May for a museum of migration and citizenship to be established in Canberra? If so, what is likely to eventuate in preserving our heritage and history in this way? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I invite the honourable member to address his remarks to the chair. 
I sometimes wonder whether the Treasurer had read or heard of the remarks of an 
American who years ago, said: 'I hear the wailing call of millions'. Millions of people in Australia will benefit as a result of the Labor Government's progressive Budget. I believe that its practical approach to immigration, by curbing the number of immigrants to Australia to 110,000, was long overdue and should have been adopted by the previous Government. Facts disclose that in 1968, 23,814 migrants permanently left Australia. In 1969, 24,739 migrants returned to their homelands, leaving our country permanently. In 1970, 26,756 people permanently left Australia, in 1971, 29,449 and in 1972, 33,172. These were obviously people dissatisfied with the administration of this country by the LiberalCountry Party Government. The Labor Government has taken a practical approach by curbing the number of migrants coming to Australia and by assisting those who are seeking assisted passages. These are the sorts of things on which the previous Government let the people of this nation down. How true are the remarks made by the Treasurer in the Budget Speech, when he said: 
In Australia we are much better at selling cars than providing decent public transport; much better at building houses than providing sewerage services. . . . 
I assure honourable members that the people of my electorate of Hunter are happy to know that the Government has earmarked $30m to overcome the backlog of sewerage services throughout the country. Sewerage is very important to a modern country such as Australia which enjoys, or is supposed to enjoy, high standards of living. These matters were overlooked by the previous Government. 
Members of the Country Party have complained about injustice to farmers, but the farmers do not agree with them. I have many friends in rural areas and they say: 'We have been existing on handouts for too long. We are able to stand on our own feet.' It has hurt the dignity of decent farmers to be continually subsidised. The farmers do not want the subsidies that have been handed out to them by the previous administration because of the pressure applied by members of the Country Party. The man on the land has dignity and pride and he does not want to be propped up any longer. He welcomes the action of the Labor Government in withdrawing some of the unnecessary subsidies so that he can now live in dignity and say: 'We have the capabilities to earn our own living and we are not imposing on the people in metropolitan areas any longer. We are not bludgers. We graziers are capable of existing without the handouts that the previous Government has been giving us.' 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In participating in this debate on the Appropriation Bill one can follow 2 courses. One can discuss the Appropriation Bill and the Budget Speech or one can discuss the amendment that was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  It is rather interesting to note that the amendment is such a mess of nonsense and contradictory terms that the majority of honourable members on both sides of this House have concentrated on the Budget, as well they might because of the trivial nature of the amendment. During the course of the debate a number of Opposition members have made accusations against the Government in regard to its conduct of foreign affairs. This shows the development or retention of their colonial and gunboat mentality. They suggest that because Australia has disagreed with the United States of America relationships with that country have been affected. They misunderstand the basic characteristic of the American people, which is a strong sense of independence. Whilst Americans might not like being disagreed with, they do respect a country that stands up for itself. They respect independence. 
It has been suggested that the Government has severed ties with the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has shown that it believes its future is in the European Economic Community. Our relations with countries such as Canada and Mexico have been vastly improved. New relationships have been established with countries such as the People's Republic of China and the German Democratic Republic. These relationships face the realities of the world scene today. Indeed, the United Nations, the Inter-Parliamentary Union and many other international associations are recognising those countries as this Government sensibly has done. The Government cannot stand accused of worsening relations. If the Opposition intends to rest its case on our disagreement with Prime Minister Lee of Singapore, one can only ask whether, whilst one respects his high intellect and the vast program of public works he has carried out in Singapore, the Opposition would like to have his powers of gaoling political opponents without trial and without appeal for 3 years and locking them up again when they emerge after those 3 years, or of suppressing any newspaper that disagrees with him. Is this the sort of thing honourable members opposite support? 
Members of the Opposition have said that this is a socialist Budget. As a socialist, I have examined it. I cannot find that it is a socialist Budget. It is certainly a social welfare Budget dealing with the quality of life and with a great deal of public expenditure. I regret that more notice has not been taken by honourable members opposite of the descriptions given by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  of the economic context in which the Budget has been presented and of the budgetary objectives. The favourable features spoken of, such as strongly rising demand, vigorous growth in output, full employment and external strength, have been overshadowed by the persistent cry of inflation. They are worth more than that. The Treasurer is to be congratulated on this his first Budget. He pointed out that the Budget was not and would not be the only instrument used to maintain a favourable economy in Australia. One can sympathise with him in the problems of the presence of increasing inflation and of combatting it. It is not a new phenomenon, as many honourable members have said. 
Many factors other than the Budget are being used to damp down inflation. For instance, there have been the revaluations of the Australian currency, tariff reductions and the introduction of the Prices Justification Tribunal. One of the problems which are difficult to combat in these circumstances is the build-up of an inflationary psychology. The Leader of the Opposition and his myrmidons have certainly done much to build up this inflationary psychology in the community. With wide publicity and discussion, the community is saturated with a pervading inflationary expectation. The result is that the rate of inflation accelerates. Employees take appropriate steps to seek ever higher rates of wage increases with the view that such increases will compensate for expected inflation. Along with this, employers are more ready to grant increases because, with an atmosphere of expected inflation, they know that the prices they charge can readily be adjusted. So it snowballs and goes on in other areas. 
One of the other great factors - this was mentioned by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  - is the overwhelming question of imported inflation. This reflects the situation in many other countries. The role of the United States in world trade has a great influence on many other countries. Australia seems to have been affected much more by the attitudes taken by the previous Government. I believe that appropriate steps have been taken in this field of imported inflation, in the form of the up-valuation of our currency and the tariff measures. There is no doubt that the Australian currency was under-valued. The question of incomes policy and wage and price controls has received a great deal of attention in this debate. The advantages and disadvantages have been revealed. One thing is certain, and the Government has made this quite clear: It is not prepared to accept unemployment as a necessary factor to control inflation. Where measures that would appear to lead to unemployment have had to be taken, compensatory measures have been instituted to supplement employment. The employment figures speak for themselves. If a purely incomes policy were to be instituted, as has been suggested by the Opposition side, unemployment inevitably would follow. 
The Budget in its revenue producing section has relied in a major way on disguised expenditures- that is, revenue concessions. The Treasurer is to be congratulated in this area. When in Opposition he was consistent in his claims that this area was the one that needed the utmost attention. The honourable member for Wentworth at least agreed that when the Treasurer was in opposition he was honest and consistent in putting forward some of the rackets and ramps that he saw and felt should be corrected. He has, as Treasurer, wielded the broom with vigour and removed many of those loopholes, ramps and rackets which have provided tax dodges for many years and which had provided income to authors who wrote books about loopholes that people could use to dodge taxation. The Treasurer has to be congratulated for closing these loopholes.  His  action is entirely consistent with the attitudes he has taken in the past. We hear objection because the Treasurer has the temerity to suggest that the volume of beer should be correctly measured. Apparently being an honest man is a bad thing in this country! 
Among other revenue producing measures he introduced was the impost on petrol. It is amazing to see throughout our country the number of signs on petrol stations advertising 8c off or 7c off. What a racket and ramp must be going on in the fixing of prices for petroleum products in Australia. Is it any wonder that this is seen as a fruitful area for raising revenue? Among the things that this Budget is about are the realities of Australian life. I would like to refer to an article called 'Australian Society: The Realities' which appeared in the July-August 1973 'Development News Digest', a publication of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. It talks about the things which this Government has tried to correct, about the problem of the majority standard in our community. It states: 
Thus it is said 'that Australia has perhaps the highest standard of living in the world because 70 per cent of the population live in 'owner-occupied dwellings'. But what about the other 30 per cent? 
The fact of the matter is that housing is one of the greatest causes of poverty for this other 30 per cent and if you are one of the 30 per cent it is not much satisfaction to be told that 70 per cent of the people are all right. The article continues: 
It is said that Australians have a high per capita income. This is an average; which means that there are plenty of people who have below average income. 
At least 5 per cent of Australian families earn less than even the basic wage, whereas more than 5.000 Australians earn in excess of $20,000 a year - a combined income that would be greater than that of over 420,000 pensioners. 
Is this what we want to see? 
A supposed sign of universal affluence is that there is about one car for every 2 people in Australia, yet a Melbourne transportation survey discovered that 63.2 per cent of low income families did not own motor cars whereas 42.8 per cent of high income people owned at least two cars per family. 
The majority standard creates a false impression of equality and universally good standard of living . . . 
What the majority standard conceals is that there are definite extremes in Australian society. 
We talk about Australia being a middle class society. One could accept that about 50 per cent are middle class, but there is the other 50 per cent. The article states that above the middle class are the people who have an excessive share of societal goods; below it is the working class which has some difficulty in keeping up with the accepted standard of living. Further below are the poor who have to struggle for the necessities of life. On a modest sociological estimate they comprise about 8 per cent of the population and number about 1 million people. There are some who have an extravagantly high standard and others who have a totally inadequate standard. The general attitude towards these 2 extremes seems to be extremely permissive or apathetic. It is suggested that in Australia we were developing an under-class, a section of society that is denied access to those goods, opportunities and services that even people in the working class enjoy. In Australia the likely members of such an under-class are mainly Aborigines, deserted wives and widows with young families, pensioners and large low income families. The article points out that the only 2 things they have in common are that they live in poverty and that they are such a desperate and neglected group that they lack the means, opportunities, political influence and popular support for effective action to change their disadvantaged situation. 
As well as looking after the rest of the community this Budget has done something for those people too. One of the things that basically they suffer from is lack of opportunity in education. We see in the Budget a doubling of Federal money spent on education. It may be said that the abolition of fees for attending universities has not affected this group so much, but we should look at the way this money for educational assistance will be expended. To enable children in this group to attend the last 2 years of secondary school an allowance will be paid to low income families. In primary schools, according to the need of the areas, there will be proper library and other teaching facilities for these people. It is realised that this Government is looking across the wide scope of Australian people and is determined that an under-class shall not develop, even though the majority standard may be said to be so high. There are many other aspects of the educational part of the Budget which I trust one will have the opportunity to discuss later. 
I want to make some passing remarks about the health field. It is with absolute disgust that I see the process of misrepresentation and dishonesty with regard to the Government's health scheme. The other day I went to collect a refund from the Hospitals Benefits Association of Victoria. When I was handed back my book and refund I was handed also a politically oriented health scheme pamphlet on which had been spent part of my contributions for the more than 22 years that I have belonged to this health fund. I resented that greatly because the pamphlet was full of dishonesty. I have heard the argument about the use of the computer in the new health scheme. The computer is to be used to keep records of usage throughout the community. As a member of a voluntary health insurance organisation my family unit has a number. It is stored away by the hospital benefits organisation which keeps on its records the number of claims I have made, the complaints that there have been in my family and the categories they come under. In fact the Hospital Benefits Association has just bought a computer to carry out a function in respect of which the Government is being criticised. I would rather trust the integrity of governments than private organisations like that. 
They are supposed to have contributors on the boards controlling them, but they run their annual meetings in such a way that their contributors do not know that meetings are being held. If they think they are short of numbers they get the employees of the organisation to go to the annual meeting to elect their puppets to the Board. 
Perhaps the Opposition wants to return to the use of the abacus in recording health finances. This is the way that members opposite talk. Does the Oppoosition not know that in developed countries computers make a real contribution not only to recording but also to the practice of medicine itself. It we are to have this smear, scare and feat campaign Australia will be denied the benefits that computers can give. Let some honourable members opposite and their medical friends who are indulging in such misrepresentation look through the work that has been done at the University of Missouri on the use of computers in the diagnosis and sorting out of complaints. They will find that by proper use of those computers there can be correctness and accuracy of diagnosis and that better treatment can be carried out very effectively. After all, in one city in America, by using a computer in its social welfare agency it was found that a woman who had been receiving social security payments for 15 years had never had a medical examination. It was only the computer that revealed this, not the human beings concerned. When she was examined she was found to have a minor complaint which was treated. She is now in full employment, looking after herself. So let us have done with this hogwash, this dreadful hypocricy that is going on in this field. Let us settle down and realise that people want decent health facilities and can get decent health facilities. Let us stop this fear and smear. 
Another item which is mentioned in the Budget is the question of legal aid. It is mentioned with regard to the Aboriginal people. I am pleased to see that it is to be provided for Aboriginal people. My one regret is that at this stage the Government has not been able to go to the extent of offering legal aid to another class in the community, the under-privileged, those who are too poor to have proper legal representation in so many fields. I congratulate the Treasurer on his first and perhaps one of the most significant Budgets that this country has had. 
Is there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="085131197309130_76_0.jpg"></graphic>

Sixthly, he increased benefits specifically for women. I have already referred to them - the B and C class widows. He has also introduced a a supporting mothers benefit for unmarried mothers, including deserted de facto wives and de facto wives of prisoners and married women not living with their husbands for one reason or another. This is the kind of humanity that he has introduced. Some of these women are also eligible for the rehabilitation allowance. I would love to be able to talk about what this Minister has done by doubling the rates of rehabilitation allowance and by doubling the allowance for those who have to undertake their rehabilitation courses living away from home. All of the allowances have been doubled. 
He has also introduced the thing that was talked about by the previous Government - portability of pensions for people who want to retire in some other country, perhaps with their relatives. They are now able to do so whether they are immigrants or Australian born. If they have lived here for 10 years - not the 20 years that was demanded by the previous Government - they are able to take their pension and live on it and continue to receive it for the rest of their lives if they go to reside in some other country for one reason or another. It is not so much what is in this Bill or what has already happened but it is what is to come that is most exciting to me. 
There is the  establishment of  the  Australian 
Commission on Social Welfare headed by that distinguished social worker,  Mrs Marie  Coleman. 
So much has she done in the Commission's report that it was applauded by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  Last week during the Minister's speech when he tabled that report he earned the applause of the honourable member for Hotham who was gracious enough to say: 'I wish I had been able to make that speech myself. I felt so affected by his remarks that I went over and shook his hand. I did so also because of the speech he had made in a non-political way. So we can go on. There are so many things: The Australian assistance program; the special provision for homeless men; the inauguration of a program of national superannuation; the setting up of the inquiry on national superannuation, the report of which we hope by the time of the next election we will be able to present at long last to the Australian people; and a national compensation scheme inquiry. Unfortunately I do not have time to go through all of the things that have been done. This has happened in 9 months. More has happened in 9 months than happened in 9 years in some periods of the previous Government's history. I commend this Bill with all my fervour. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The Postmaster-General will please stop the debate across the table. 
Mir Lionel Bowen - It was a Press release of 16 June last year. 
In addressing myself to this Bill I feel that I should first of all reply to one of the matters raised by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  As he said, there has been a reduction which will be balanced by an equivalent increase in the general rate pension and will therefore not result in any actual loss of money to those involved in the special compensation allowance paid to most general rate pensioners in the 75 per cent to 100 per cent range. The allowance is at present $4.50 at the 75 per cent level, increasing to $6 at the 100 per cent level. This will be reduced by half by this Bill, and the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  has indicated that in the autumn the remainder will be withdrawn. 
The Government Party has never favoured this allowance, which the previous Government introduced in 1968 as a means of increasing only the upper quarter of the general rate range. It did .this probably to avoid the very high expenditure of an increase across the board. If the honourable member for Herbert is surprised to hear this perhaps he ought to read the reasons that the Government Party, then .the Opposition, gave at the time for this. The Government is interested in producing a compensation and pension structure which is fair across the board and which will continue to increase as the needs of the per sons are increased and not just some sort of structure which has bits of sticking plaster stuck on it here and there such as the structure which enabled the former Government to avoid its responsibilities. 
I too support the Bill because, as promised, there are substantial improvements in repatriation payments for ex-servicemen. There is also in the Bill the extension of benefits to members of the regular forces, and there is an indication of the interlocking of repatriation benefits with general health and social welfare services in the community. I am surprised to hear the rumour that the honourable member for Herbert raised. I can only assume that this matter of interlocking repatriation services with other health and social welfare services gave rise to that rumour. Never at any stage have we suggested that the repatriation benefits should be denied to those who are qualified for them. But there is considerable expertise in the Repatriation Department which has much to add to community health and social welfare services, and I do not .think those with that expertise should be prevented from giving that assistance. Indeed in this legislation the Minister has made provision for such assistance to be given. For too long there has been an artificial division and lack of integration and a failure to exchange the real expertise that exists. 
I think we all acknowledge that it is a time of changing requirements for the Repatriation Department. One regrets that perhaps some of the changes made in this Bill had not been made earlier when much greater benefit could have been given. The extension of benefits to members of the regular forces is part of making the Services more attractive to individuals. Extending benefits to national servicemen who undertook to complete their periods of full time service was a promise made to members who gave that undertaking. It has caused some concern in the community in aspects other than repatriation for some of the former national service members of the forces, who feel aggrieved that because they completed their service before 7 December last they were not able to get some of the other benefits that existed. But another government controlled the Repatriation Department until December of last year for a period of 23 years, and it would be impossible for this Government to make up for all the deficiencies in the policy decisions that were made in those 23 years. 
I believe that the making of regulations in this Bill requiring determining authorities established under the Repatriation Act to provide reasons for their decisions is a very good provision. I know that the honourable member for Herbert in addressing himself to the Bill speaks with a deep knowledge of the armed Services and the problems that the returned serviceman has in confirming that those disabilities are due to service. 
I have had considerable experience with repatriation patients, firstly in my capacity as a medical practitioner and then of course in my capacity as a member of Parliament. It always seems that in the areas of entitlement the Press publicity is given to those members of the profession and those people who talk about the so called bludgers who receive repatriation entitlements when they should not receive them. In my experience there is a very large number who miss out on repatriation entitlements although to my way of thinking they are very much entitled to them. So I welcome this suggestion that those whose applications for acceptance of a disability to be recognised have been refused will now be given reasons for the decision. In this way they will be better able to present their cases before the various tribunals. 
I turn to some matters with regard to these various tribunals which determine an exmember's entitlement. I feel that long before this we probably should have accepted a greater deal of regionalisation of tribunals. I recently visited a country centre in the Mildura area of Victoria. In talking to some of the ex-members there it was pointed out to me that great disabilities are suffered by persons who make applications and have to appear before the tribunals. Often they have to fly to Melbourne. They see their advocate before the tribunal only minutes before they appear before the tribunal and in fact are disadvantaged by this. As well as providing reasons, perhaps consideration should be given to taking note of the difficulties that some of these ex-members have in preparing their cases adequately and to some of the disadvantages they have in travelling long distances to appear before the tribunals. 
In that sense probably the honourable member for Herbert and I were as one in asking that in reviewing tribunal decisions and the functioning of tribunals the maximum degree of benefit of the doubt be given to the ex-member. I think this is basic to our concept of repatriation and that even after all these years of functioning of the Department improvements can still be made. I welcome the suggestion that the Repatriation Commission will now provide medical hospital treatment to all Boer War and 1914-18 War veterans in respect of all disabilities. I do not suppose that this change is terribly generous. There would be so few Boer War veterans left. But indeed for the large number of 1914-18 War veterans I think it is a wise move. 
Like many other members of the House, I am too young to know much about that war or in fact the decade or so after it. However, I have had experience of ex-servicemen who were concerned with repatriation and they have informed me that at the end of that war so many of them just wanted to get out and get into civilian life that they accepted an Al discharge so long as it meant that they got their discharge. Out they went. Years later when they found small disabilities, that had been aggravated by time and they made claims they were told that their records showed that they were fit when they were discharged. Their disabilities were not recognised. We have now come to a stage where we as a community can well afford to accept those disabilities, and I commend the Minister for Repatriation for having taken this action. With regard to the provision of treatment for those ex-servicemen who have served in a threatre of war and are suffering from cancer, one sees this as an offer for such people to be able to use repatriation facilities. In looking at why we should offer repatriation facilities to people with malignant growths, I suppose the only reason is one of compassion and the complete lack of real knowledge of how neoplasia occurs. 
I would have thought there were other conditions to which we could give consideration. There is considerable discussion about the role that stress and strain can play in cardiovascular degeneration and it would be undoubted that many of these ex-servicemen have undergone quite long periods of stress and strain. Conditions of wartime service place them in positions where there may be pulmonary damage which does not evidence itself until much later in the form of emphysema and such complaints. Many of those with multiple gunshot wounds and injuries to limbs and various parts of the body later develop crippling arthritis and are incapacitated for work. I have found from a number of cases that have been brought to my attention, either as a doctor or as the local member, that osteoarthritis developing in later years in ex-servicemen who have had multiple injuries has not been accepted as a repatriation entitlement. Yet I seem to remember as a medical student being told that if a person receives a broken limb in a motor car accident he is sure to have osteoarthritis in certain joints as a result. I wonder whether we could not afford to be more generous in recognising these conditions for the provision of repatriation, medical and hospital treatment. 
There is also provision for repatriation hospitals and institutions to be used to provide in-patient treatment for persons other than ex-servicemen and their dependants. I think it has been made quite clear that this provision will not be used while there is a demand for hospital beds by persons entitled to repatriation treatment. It is true that from time to time many repatriation hospital beds are available. I live in the same area as the Heidelberg Repatriation General Hospital. I can remember as a schoolboy seeing the hospial being built on the dairy farm that existed there before it From time to time the Heidelberg Repatriation General Hospital has had wards closed due to either a shortage of patients or a shortage of staff. I suppose that if one drew a straight line about 3 miles long starting at the Austin Hospital it would include the Austin Hospital, the Repatriation General Hospital and the Preston and Northcote Community Hospital. Yet, despite there being 2 other institutions, there is still a high demand for hospital beds in the area and the Repatriation General Hospital is very well placed, if it has beds available, for use by ordinary members of the community. In fact discussions are taking place between representatives of those hospitals' for a reciprocal arrangement, for the exchange of medical staff and looking after the patients in those institutions. It is difficult to judge just how many beds will be made available in this way for the general use of patients other than exservicemen and their dependants, but it is certainly better for those beds to be used than for them to lie idle or for wards to be closed. 
Finally I want just to mention the other provision in this Bill concerned with the provision and repair of artificial limbs for persons other than ex-servicemen and their dependants. In this area I suppose no other department and no other organisation in Australia would have more expertise than the Repatriation Department The very number of ex-personnel who have had to use the services of the Department has meant that those working with prostheses have had a wide range of experience. They have had the benefit of being able to try new methods, and this can all be used for the benefit of exservicemen and people other than ex-servicemen in the community. With suitable artificial limbs the number who can return to normal activity is remarkable. Yet if the individual has to get these prostheses from other sources the cost is tremendously high. For instance, recently I had a case involving a man with an above-knee amputation. An artificial limb for him would cost somewhere about $360. Because of a poorly formed stump he had to change this limb fairly frequently. The very fact of having an artificial limb enabled this man to carry out his normal everyday occupation and therefore he was not claiming any social welfare benefits. But the cost of over $300 for a suitable artificial limb was a real strain on him. 
I congratulate the Minister for bringing in this provision with regard to artificial limbs. The Repatriation Department has a lot of other expertise in the field of prostheses. I trust that as the demand from ex-servicemen decreases this expertise will be used to benefit other members of the community. I think this Bi'l does indeed contain very significant changes in the repatriation field. I do not think there has been as comprehensive a look at repatriation benefits for many years and I am proud to have had the opportunity to speak briefly on the Bill. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
-Does the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation recall my question to him during the last sessional period of Parliament regarding deaths in aircraft accidents due to fire and noxious gases emitted from internal fittings of aircraft of varying chemical composition? In view of further recent reports regarding these factors in aircraft accidents overseas, has the Minister taken any further steps in the preliminary investigation he then made to assess whether such materials and risks exist in Australian airline operations? 
Has the attention of the Minister for External Territories been drawn to the comments contained in a report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation regarding Christmas Island? If so, what steps has he taken to ensure revegetation of areas affected by phosphate mining operations and so on? Have any steps been taken to set aside sufficient rain forests on the island for the preservation of Abbott's booby bird and the Christmas Island Imperial pigeon which are endemic to the island and are listed internationally as gravely endangered species? 
I wish to pass a few comments on the parliamentary section of the Estimates. I follow up some of the remarks made by previous speakers about questions without notice in the Parliament. I think it was the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who raised the matter of supplementary questions during question time. He said that questions ranged over a great variety of subjects either of national importance or of parochial interest - the parish pump questions - without any continuity to the type of questions that were asked. I remember that on occasions some of my colleagues and I asked a series of questions following on a particular line of questioning or a particular subject. It was unfortunate that we had to wait to get the call in accordance with normal procedure to try to get what should have been a continuous story throughout the questions. I think it is important that we give consideration in the Parliament to how we can best arrange for supplementary questions to be asked after the main question. This will be of advantage not only to those on the Opposi tion side of the Parliament but also be of considerable benefit to members on the Government side in being able to get the full story of a particular matter that they have raised by way of question. I think that this will need some investigation in the future. 
I also wish to make some comment on the committee system. We have had a growing committee system in the Parliament and a most effective one. I have experienced membership on committees in both the Victorian Parliament and the Australian Parliament. From the point of view of the backbench member it is probably in the committee work of Parliament that most job satisfaction is obtained. However, it seems strange to me that the only committees under the Appropriation Bill that have budgets on which to work are the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. It seems to me that there must be a strong case for other committees, whether joint committees or standing committees of the Parliament that are substantially constituted and have the supporting staff which is necessary for them to carry out their investigations, to be allocated an appropriation for the work they do in the financial year. In this way the committees would have a great deal more flexibility in being able to decide the investigations to carry out and how fully to go into them. There are some in-built inhibitions at present when a committee is drawing from a general appropriation. I think that the Parliament could well consider giving committees their own appropriate annual budgets and the responsibility to see that the way in which that money is expended is the best possible way to produce the best possible result. 
There is another problem with reports of some of the committees. This applies to reports of parliamentary committees and some of the reports that are presented from extra parliamentary committees, in the sense that often when they are tabled there are brief statements by leave by members on either side of the House explaining the reason for arriving at recommendations. It seems to me that while theoretically the forms of the House allow it, we neglect to leave discussion of these reports for a time before a general debate takes place on them. I think much is to be said for such a proposal. Another aspect of the committee system is that, I believe, the committees that are in operation should report to the members of the House the matters which they have under investigation. This could be done by reporting to the Party Whips so that they could advise the members of their Party what investigations certain committees are carrying out. One committee which has to investigate a number of matters is the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation and its activities should be advised to the Parties so that members who are interested in making submissions or who have organisations in their electorates which would be interested in taking part in the hearings on particular matters, know what is going on and can make appropriate representations. To a certain extent this is missing at the moment and yet it could be so easily corrected. 
One matter that always seems to occupy the minds of members of Parliament is the question of sitting hours. I pay a compliment to the present Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for the sensible way in which meetings of the House finish at 11 o'clock each night. This has been a vast improvement on my previous experience in this Parliament. At least now a member knows that he will get a reasonable sleep. However there is the problem of integrating the hours in which we are in this House with the work of the various committees - be they parliamentary or Party committees - and using the time effectively. 
The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  who preceded me in this debate, spoke of the suggestion that we will have to spend more weeks in Canberra. I believe that this is the probable solution to the present problem and that the Parliament will eventually arrive at that conclusion because of the load of legislation and the generally increasing pressures on members of the Parliament at the moment. But if more weeks are to be spent in Canberra for sittings of Parliament, one must not forget that members have to do a lot of work in their electorates. If this extra sitting load is imposed upon members, some consideration must be given to the staffing situation of members in their home electorates, so that persons are available to handle the many problems which occur, whether they concern social welfare, post offices or any of the other general matters that crop up. Members of Parliament cannot handle all this work on their own. If we are to spend more weeks in Canberra we will need extra assistance to be able to give our constituents the answers and assistance they require from us. 
Some years ago I sat on a parliamentary committee which inquired into the matter of administrative appeal tribunals and the question of the appointment of an ombudsman. I saw the functioning of the ombudsman in New Zealand, where, of course, there is not the problem of State governments as well as a Federal government. This makes it easier for the ombudsman to operate. The argument is often put forward that the member of Parliament himself is the ombudsman in his electorate. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay points out that not only does the member of Parliament have to be an ombudsman in a particular area but his wife has to be one as well. Every honourable member knows just how much his own family has to become involved in working in the electorate. This only adds more force to the argument I put previously about staffing in the electorates. My colleague, the honourable member for Wide Bay, has led me away from the discussion of the subject of the ombudsman. Despite the role that a member of Parliament plays in this sense, I still think there is an overriding role for the office of an ombudsman or parliamentary commissioner - call it what we will - as it exists in other countries. It is not always possible for a member to research problems that arise or to get down to the basic problems that occur in public administration. If one were able to find the right person with the right techniques in finding solutions to those problems, this would be a worthy ancillary service to our parliamentary system. 
Order! Is the honourable member asking leave to make this request? 
I wish to pass a few comments on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  have raised the question of the turtle farm project in the Torres Strait. In doing so, they have quoted statements made by  Senator Georges  who had referred to the fact that this matter had been before the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation and that certain matters had arisen from the investigation by the Committee. 
The history of this turtle farming is that, with the phasing out of the pearling industry in the Torrest Strait Islands, some thought had to be given to another industry which would result in some monetary injection into the cash economy of the Islanders. The general question of using the native fauna of those islands was raised in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. One of the projects which started as an experiment was concerned with whether the hawksbill turtle could be used for curio purposes and the green sea turtle for the supply of turtle meat. The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  through the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  referred this matter to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation raising the question whether this project contravened the international convention with regard to endangered species, and also the question of the general conservation aspects of the whole project. 
The Standing Committee has heard evidence on this reference. The Committee has been unable to visit the island because of a request not to do so, because discussions were continuing between islander councils and representatives of Papua New Guinea regarding the definition of the border in that area. The Committee accepted that request as genuine. It did not visit the islands because it was suggested that this would cause some confusion in the minds of the islanders. Subsequently  Dr Carr,  an ecologist who has some concern with a commercial turtle project in the West Indies, was asked to carry out an ecological investigation of this project. These matters are a subject for report by the Standing Committee. That report will be presented shortly to the Parliament. 
However, the aspect to which the honourable member for Mackellar referred - I think that he may be under some misapprehension about this matter - is not the experimental concept and discovering the facts of the project, and whether it is operative. Instead, it relates to some severe doubts that have been cast on the early commercialisation of this project. This matter came before the Committee incidentally. It arose out of its other investigations. Severe doubts were raised in the minds of members of the Committee with regard to the propriety of some of the actions in the commercialisation of the turtle farming project and with regard to some administrative matters. The Committee did not investigate them in depth but they did exist and all members of the Committee were concerned about them. Therefore these matters were referred to the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs with a recommendation that they be investigated. That Minister commenced an investigation into the suggested irregularities. I felt that the debate on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs gave me the chance to put the record straight on this matter. I will in no way preview the Committee's report on the question of the international convention or on the question of conservation. That report will be duly submitted. 
Arising out of some of these investigations I would like to make some comment in passing in relation to national parks. In looking at the national park structure it seems strange in view of the make-up of many of our national parks that there is very litle involvement of indigenous Aborigines in the conduct of these great tourist attractions. These people know the mythology and the physical features of the parks and in fact no one would be better equipped to describe and display these areas to visiting Europeans than the indigenous Aboriginal who has a real love for the country which he feels belongs to him. I am hopeful that we will see in the life of this Parliament a much greater involvement of Aborigines in the running of these projects because these people have their own dignity, they have their own distinction and they have their own feeling for these areas. 
When I listen to debates in Parliament and in public I am concerned at the extreme paternalism shown by people in regard to this matter. Perhaps it is not deliberate but it is paternalism. I think that this is something which those people who profess to have an interest in Aboriginal Affairs will have to make a very great effort to exclude from their thinking. In dealing with our native Australians we do not want paternalism. What we want is equality of rights for these people. We want respect for the preservation of those things that they desire in their old ways whether they be customs, habits or objects. We respect them and they should have equality of rights. We should give them this opportunity and we should stop being so paternalistic. This paternalistic thinking is not an error that is confined to members on the other side of this chamber; it is on both sides of the chamber and also it exists right throughout the community. I believe that the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was well aware of this attitude and he was very conscientious in the efforts that he made to remove this paternalistic attitude. I congratulate him on the work he did in the time he had in that portfolio. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="086131197310115_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

House, a man who is prepared- 
I ask the honourable member to withdraw those words. 
I must express a certain degree of surprise at the attitudes of the Opposition to this Bill. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  made his second reading speech on 27 September and yet, on the resumption of the debate today, we had a rather disturbing display of pique and temper because amendments proposed by the Opposition were not available in time to be circulated when the second reading debate was resumed. It seems to me that with a structural Bill like this one, with the amount of material that the Minister has supplied to honourable members relevant to the Schools Commission including the report by the Interim Committee on the structure, honourable members opposite should not have complained after such an adjournment that they were unable to have their amendments ready. Obviously they are slow learners and slow thinkers. If the Bill dealt with greater detail than simply the structure and the functions of the Commission, one could have excused honourable members opposite. But the fact is that it did not. The Schools Commission Bill is relatively simple. 
I am also disturbed at the complete disregard shown by honourable members opposite for the recommendations of the Interim Schools Committee in the Karmel Report, which is well known to them and which surely they must have examined, lt outlines the structure and functions of the Schools Commission, which is the very reverse of centralisation of the educational process, lt is couched in terms that allow examination of a wide variety of problems in the educational field of a structural nature and an educational nature and also the exciting prospects of future change. Yet the Opposition has completely ignored so much of this. Honourable members opposite spoke about the structure of the Commission and suggested that the only full time member should be the  chairman.  Despite the excellent work already done by the Interim Committee, the Commission will be confronted with a great task because of the many defects in our educational system, because so many demands will be made on it and because of the inequality that has occurred in so many areas in so many years under conservative governments, whether they were Federal or State 'governments. 
It is incredible that the Opposition should think, that one full time commissioner would be sufficient. The Karmel Committee said that any less substantial structure would be unlikely to provide the leadership and stimulus that are so badly needed in Australian education. That Committee recommended 3 or 4 full time commissioners because, as it properly pointed out, with the significant need for committees for research and regional boards, there will need to be full time members to chair these various organisations. The Opposition mentioned the width of responsibilities and interests of the Commission. How can one full time commissioner expect to be able to carry out these duties? 
If there is not to be more than one commissioner on a full time basis how can we hope to ensure the appointment of senior and experienced persons who would otherwise be interested in taking on this task in the full knowledge that they had the support of others interested in the area, that they had the supporting services and that they would be able to perform a worthwhile task? We know that one man cannot be all things to all men. If, as advised by the Committee, there were more than one full time commissioner, commissioners could be used in different areas of expertise. With the interlocking of their expertise we would have a much more satisfactory full time component of the Schools Commission. I look next at the proposals for the part time membership structure of the Schools coommission. I can only assume that the Opposition sticks to its stodgy, old school tie, Party factionalism type of attitude that has become so evident in its political manoeuvrings in recent times. We should avoid, in such a Schools Commission, the appointment of persons representing particular interests who would bring in factional interests or factional fights contrary to the functioning of the Commission. The Minister has tried to avoid this in this Bill. Certainly there will be part-time commissioners who have had experience as parents and as teachers and of all the other aspects that affect schools. 
The proposition put by the Opposition is that the part-time commissioners shall operate not as individuals looking at the comprehensive field of education and able to look at all matters, whether they represent nongovernment schools or government schools or have experience with those not representing such groups, to see how the recommendations of the Commission can be used for the good of the whole educational system in Australia. The Interim Committee commented on this aspect. It referred to representations made by the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations which argued strongly for the right to nominate representatives to the Commission. The Interim Committee of the Schools Commission saw some virtue but not total virtue in this argument for the very reasons I have mentioned, namely, that such persons would be representing a narrow group and voting on behalf of a narrow group when many of the people in those organisations have the breadth of vision which would enable them to look at the whole field of education and make recommendations that would benefit all and not just the interests they represent. This factionalism, this whole sense of trying to get different groups fighting for their rights, fighting to see whether they can get a bigger slice of the cake than another particular group, is implicit in the matters raised by the Opposition. I hope that the Parliament will not allow these sorts of inhibitions to be built into the Schools Commission. There are great dangers in their being built in. 
We have heard some fiddling with words by Opposition members with regard to the functions of the Commission. I would have thought that the functions of the Commission, as expressed in the Bill, were straightforward. In its report the Karmel Committee acknowledged that there were serious deficiencies in 3 broad areas in Australian schools. In its summary of recommendations the Karmel Committee stated: 
First, most schools lack sufficient resources, both human and material, to provide educational experiences appropriate to the young in a modern democratic industrial society. 
I believe that the setting up of the Schools Commission, such as is proposed by the Minister, will allow us to provide sufficient resources of both a human and material nature to give the educational experience appropriate to the society of today. In education appropriate to today's society Australia has lagged because past Australian governments have not been sufficiently interested to recognise the crisis and do something about it. The Karmel Committee also pointed out: 
 Secondly, among schools there are gross inequalities, not only in the provision of resources but also in the opportunities that they, offer to boys and girls from varied backgrounds. 
I comment now on the socio-economic background of many of these children. If one comes from one of the large cities one can see this particularly in the inner suburban areas where there are grave socio-economic factors to be dealt with. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  referred to the problems of children who are underprivileged because of language difficulties - those children of migrant origin. I do not suggest that this is confined totally to city areas. I have no doubt that many honourable members who represent country electorates could indicate areas of socio-economic disadvantage. 
The final and most cutting comment of the Karmel Committee was that the quality of Australian education leaves much to be desired. In a country where averages are taken to show the quality of our standard of living, and the quality of our way of life, what an indictment it is that a group of persons looking at our educational system is able to say that in Australia the quality of education leaves much to be desired. The blame for this situation can reside only with governmental apathy and lack of action over a period of years. In the functioning of the Schools Commission when it is set up - I have no intention of going through all the items that list its functions - lies great hope for the future in seeing that this essential quality of education is raised to an appropriate standard. Already the suggestion that this will be done has caused international comment. Other countries look to the Australian experience in education and are looking to the fact that no longer is Australia just talking about education as a political catchery but is doing something about it by establishing  :i  Schools Commission which will be able to do the job, it will determine the requirements and, as is provided in the Bill, will have consultation with the States, with the authorities in the Territories, with persons, bodies and authorities conducting non-government schools in Australia - not only government schools but the whole range of schools - and all persons with an interest in education. We are told by members of the Opposition that it is a small group of schools which has been unfairly categorised but, as the Minister has pointed out, this situation is to be reviewed. There has been some misunderstanding on the part of the schools. 
Forgetting the interests of the great majority of schools^ - both government and nongovernment - the Opposition has tried to turn this Commission into one which will be inadequately staffed by full-time commissioners and because of this restriction on the full time commissioner it will be unable to give to issues the breadth of examination that is necessary. The Opposition wants further to stultify the Commission by producing its own type of factionalism - by providing for representatives of certain factions on the Commission. I do not suppose this is really surprising. 
I cannot see how the Government could accept these sorts of amendments to this Bill. The Government was threatened that in another place the Opposition would use its numbers to ensure that this Commission would be so hacked around as to render it impotent. If the Opposition does that it will answer to the people of Australia. The people have shown by community involvement, community interest and community activities that they demand of governments proper action in the educational field. They will no longer be fobbed off with indecision and all sorts of alibis as to why the educational program cannot be carried out across the field. I congratulate the Minister for Education on the nature of the Bill that he has brought forward to form the Australian Schools Commission. I believe that if the proper structure and functions are used the Commission will follow the very worthy report that was given in such a short time by the Interim Committee of the Australian Schools Commission. I believe that to fiddle with the Bill in the way the Opposition has proposed - after its obviously superficial appraisal - would be a grave mistake for the young people of this country. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 4 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
During the debate on the estimates for the Department of Education last night I had occasion to interject somewhat heatedly during the speech of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  I did so because of his playing down of the present Government's initiatives over a wide area of education and his concentration on the very narrow range of education encompassed by independent schools. 
For the honourable member for Bradfield to accuse us of being barbarians destroying excellence shows him for the crusty old Tory that he is. To discuss independent schools alone is a useless exercise. One would think from his demeanour that honourable members on this side of the chamber had no knowledge of independent schools at all. I, like many of my colleagues on this side of the chamber, did in fact attend an independent school and do know something of what they provide and how they operate. We acknowledge that some of those schools have acted as experimental crucibles in the teaching and educational process. We also acknowledge that many parents make sacrifices for their children to attend those schools because of the deplorable state into which Liberal governments at both State and Federal levels have allowed government schools to fall. One could have more sympathy if perhaps admissions to these schools was not only confined to the children of past pupils or to those able to win scholarships to them. I think that if they are to operate in an experimental way perhaps they should seek out the excellent from the community and admit them to their educational experimentation. Under those circumstances perhaps they would need to be given more consideration. 
However, what depressed me was this accusation of destroying excellence when the honourable member for Bradfield throughout his long career in the New South Wales State Parliament and in this Parliament has not made one speech suggesting that there should be a constructive effort for excellence in Government and other schools apart from independent schools. The same honourable member showed satisfaction with mediocrity for those schools. He came back into the chamber last night when the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  was speaking and said he was coming back to listen to 'envy, hatred, and malice' - an expression unworthy of the honourable member for Bradfield. He accused the honourable member for Holt who is a former school teacher of striking often. 
The honourable member for Bradfield may like to have a look at the mediocrity in some of the schools in the larger States. He who gets up in this place on matters affecting the 
Parliament and complains about the conditions under which members of Parliament are forced to work in their office accommodation should go to the staff rooms of the majority of the high schools in Victoria where, at miniscule desks, on hard seats, sitting cheek by jowl, the full staff of high schools have to try to do their preparation work for classes, mark class material and do all the necessary operations if they are to be able to carry out their proper duties. That is the sort of mediocrity with which the honourable member for Bradfield is satisfied and has done nothing about. 
The things that were not accentuated were the wide initiatives. In the document entitled Payments to or for the States 1973-74* presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  one only has to look at the statement on education to understand my point. That statement reads: 
In 1973 fundamental changes were announced in the arrangements for the provision of assistance for education. 
First, full responsibility for financing tertiary education will be transferred to the Australian Government from the beginning of 1974. 
The taking over by the Commonwealth of the cost of tertiary education will mean that there will be additional finance available to the States to provide for primary, secondary and technical education. The Australian Government has set up the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, the Australian Preschools Committee and the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education. These committees will in many instances have reported already. The Opposition is being obstructive in preventing the efforts of those committees to come to fruition. 
I now want to refer to the Estimates for the Department of Education. I refer to division 200.3.- Other Services- items 08, 09, and 10. which is to be found on page 31 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74. The notes about them are to be found on pages 40, 41 and 42 of the explanatory notes that have been provided. They deal with support for training of school librarians, secondary school library program, research and investigation and research and development in education. I refer to this item in order to direct attention to one of the failings in the high schools of today. To illustrate my point I ask leave to have incorporated in Hansard 2 tables which set out the reading range of students in form 3, and form 4 in one of the local high schools in my  electorate. I have already asked the permission of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in respect of this matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 
I thank the Committee. I invite honourable members to study carefully these tables setting out the reading range of students. They indicate just what has happened in our educational system. In form 3, which includes 3A, 3B, 3C, 3D and 3E, there are 164 children. More than 49 per cent of those children had less than the reading average for that form. The reading ability of over 50 per cent of them was poorer than for the age range in that form. In form 3 there was even one child - this is form 3 in a secondary school - who was classified as having no reading range at all. 
It reflects poor conditions brought about by 15 years of Liberal Party rule in the State of Victoria and complete neglect of the education system and the lack of backing up by the Federal Government in supplying finance for government schools. I suggest that an examination of the schools in the electorate of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  would show the same conditions. If he can be satisfied that 25 children out of 160 in form 3, who would be roughly in the 14 to 15 year age group, have a reading range of 10 - and there are many others in this way - it is a pretty poor state of affairs. I am not going into the details of those tables. I invite honourable members to have a look at them and consider how many schools suffer this disability themselves. That is why I have mentioned those items dealing with libraries and so on. I referred earlier to the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. That Committee endorses the view that the provision of libraries, particularly when they are multimedia centres, is an important means of improving the quality of the total school program. The use of such centres is not confined to the study of particular subjects, but facilitates the growth of patterns of learning in all subjects which are responsive to each pupil's level of development and to his individual interests. The existence of a variety of sources of information enables teachers to pass a desirable degree of initiative over to students; if combined with effective teaching, this encourages the development of skills necessary for independent learning. 1 do think that in the estimates for the Department of Education there lies some hope for the future of our children" in these schools by overcoming these difficulties that are forced on them of not having adequate facilities and adequate training to be brought up to the ordinary reading range that would be suggested at their levels. Without that sort of ability how can they hope for an excellence in education? They are condemned to mediocrity. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It was rather amusing to hear the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  talk of the niggardly appropriation for the Department of the Environment and Conservation because,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you are no doubt aware that in 1972-73 the appropriation for the Department was $778,700, the actual expenditure was $760,215 and yet the appropriation for this year is $1,729,000. I think that the honourable member for Darling Downs should read the Appropriation Bill and perhaps reflect on the years of neglect of this field when there was simply the Office of the Environment and Conservation; it had not been brought up to the rank of a full department. I think that the honourable member would be generous enough to admit that the Department of the Environment and Conservation is going through a building-up period and is steadily defining the functions it will serve as far as Australia is concerned. I think we all welcome this massive increase of almost $lm in expenditure. 
Having said that, I wish to refer to several matters which I think come within the scope of the Department of the Environment and Conservation. A number of honourable members will have received a brochure on what is called the Botany Bay project. They will note that this has been issued under the authority of the Australian Minister for Science  (Mr 
Morrison), the Australian Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  the Australian Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  and the New South Wales Minister for Environmental Control. According to the brochure the study is designed to examine the impacts of about two long lifetimes of human settlement on a wide range of typical Australian coastal environments and from this to predict the course which future impacts may take. It spells out in many ways what has already been done and the factors that are to be investigated. It is going to be rather important in the future that we should be clear on the functions of the Department of the Environment and Conservation because I note that the initial funding of this project was done through the Department of Science or through the Australian Minister for Science. We now have a committee of Ministers, State and Federal, in collaboration on the Botany Bay project. I hope that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation will sum up the present position of the Botany Bay project when he is making his closing remarks because it would seem that the results that will be obtained from that will have a great deal of application to many other areas in Australia. 
In the Estimates for this Department there is also an allocation of $100,000 for the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. Too often, of course, the questions of environment and conservation are overshadowed by the question of wildlife conservation, or the term might even be 'preservation'. One welcomes the fact that the positive setting up of this Service has occurred because there is a need at the present time for us clearly to institute a national policy with regard to the provision of national parks and reserves to preserve or to ensure that all habitat types that we know of will be preserved. It is only through this sort of body that such a policy can be implemented. The National Parks and Wildlife Commission will be very restricted, of course, without the co-operation of the various State governments. One hopes that it will reach an eminence and an influence that will allow the preservation of these habitat types to an extent that has not occurred before. Once again the Commission must go along with the biological survey that has been conducted by the Department of Science. I hope that it will be used as an opportunity to bring about some central compilation and storage of information which is already available to scientists in this area. 
Finally, the question of environmental pollution affects the electorates of honourable members in different ways. I represent a suburban area of Melbourne and probably the most important sources of environmental pollution there are either industrial pollution or pollution resulting from automobile emissions. I wonder when we are going to get down in the Australian context to a thoroughgoing examination of what we are to do about automobile emissions. As is known, for a number of years the Federal Government of the United States of America has concentrated quite firm legislation on this matter. However, it is having only varying degrees of success. 
I refer to an article by Jacoby and Stein.bruner entitled 'Salvaging the Federal Attempt to Control Auto Pollution'. From this we can perhaps learn some lessons. The article points out that in the United States at the moment 3 basic options have gained enough support to define effectively the context of the debate. The first option is to persevere in the established policy in the expectation that the critical technical parameters will eventually yield to a steadfast public will. The second alternative is to relax the emission standards, accepting levels of pollution higher than those envisaged in the legislation but preserving the conventional automobile engine and realising substantial cost savings in that way. The third is to adjust the policy to ensure serious preparation of an alternative engine technology. We read of a number of instances of improved engine technology. I wonder whether the Department of the Environment and Conservation is giving any attention to this aspect, because if we are to think of this third alternative it is quite obvious that we must have a look at what regulatory devices we put into the system. It may even be necessary at Australian Government level to provide incentives for these developments. Only in this way will the most important source of urban environmental pollution in any case be satisfactorily tackled. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs mentioned water resources research. I have time to touch on this subject only in passing. There is considerable experience overseas that suggests that in many areas there is excessive expenditure on treatment plants, for treatment of water and of sewage, and that these are draining money away from the areas where pollution of the water supply is worse. I think there is a lesson that we can learn from these overseas experiences. I know that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation has indicated in another paper his interest in this matter of water supply, water resources research and water resources determination. I trust that we will see in the next Appropriation Bill a large increase in the amount devoted to water resources. This is one of the problems that is predominant in Australia because of the relatively dry environment and the arid nature of a lot of the area. I will close with those remarks. There are many other environmental matters on which I would like to speak. I think that the Department of the Environment and Conservation has got off to a very good start in this year. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. Is there a substantial surplus of hostel accommodation following the drop in the numbers of migrants coming to Australia? If so, what does the surplus amount to and what use will be made of this surplus hostel accommodation? 
On behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation I bring up the report on Ayers Rock-Mount Olga National Park. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
This Bill is one of a number of Bills dealing with education that have been before the House in recent times. A number of others are predicted for the near future. One of the problems in debating a Bill of this nature is that so many of the Bills are interlocked and integrated that one feels some restrictions in debating them. In regard to this Bill, I feel that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  may have felt that I was being antagonistic to his remarks about part time students. Far from it. For once I found myself with a great deal of sympathy in what the honourable member for Wannon was saying. I have had experience as a part time student at both the Melbourne and Monash universities so I know some of the difficulties there. It is obvious from this legislation that any benefits part time students are receiving at the moment will be preserved. But I agree with the honourable member that there is a real need for perhaps not only a re-look but also a re-thinking of the position of part time students in the future. 
In his illustration he indicated that we might well be looking at two different groups. We might be looking at the problems and the needs of the part time student who physically attends the university for his part time studies. The honourable member then raised the question of the part time student who is doing external studies. He mentioned the University of New England. I recently cast a speculative eye on the range of subjects offered by the University of New England. Unfortunately, there are residential restrictions on external studies. The opportunity for external studies is rather limited in this community. I do not intend to proceed with much comment on this matter but I agree with the honourable member that there is a real reason for having another look at this question of the part time students physically attending university and also those doing external studies, and the question of the open university not being the only institution but a supporting institution. 
This piece of legislation clearly deals with 3 groups of assistance - the senior secondary scholarships, the tertiary education assistance and the postgraduate awards. It provides for a mechanism of review of awards in appropriate cases. It preserves the rights of present scholarship holders. With regard to the postgraduate awards, this section is to be commended because of the increasing tendency in today's society for postgraduate studies to be carried on to a greater extent. Whereas, say, 25 years ago it was an achievement to gain a master's degree, now a master's degree is considered to be just an ordinary degree and the degree of doctor of philosophy is almost considered to be the most significant postgraduate degree. Some 25 years ago awards of that nature were scarce. They were given by various bodies such as the National Health and Medical Research Council for postgraduate work and they were rather meagre in amount. It is pleasing that the proposed award system will be set up. I raise one query whether we would not be wise in considering that such postgraduate awards should not also be widely applicable for Australian postgraduate students to use in other countries at other institutions where it was appropriate to do so. 
With regard to tertiary education assistance, a major change is occurring with the Commonwealth accepting responsibility for fees at tertiary institutions. Of course, this will bring a new approach where, provided the student can be admitted to one of the tertiary institutions - the opportunities are increasing as time goes by - according to a means test he will be able to receive a living allowance. One of the other factors that was illustrated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  was that it will not necessarily be only the formal tertiary education as we have understood it in the past that will be covered. Indeed, he mentioned special courses such as the medical records librarianship course and the Australian Ballet School course. It may well be in the future that we will have to define some of these matters very clearly. There has been a great tendency overseas in the training of nurses, for example, to shift from the traditional tertiary training of nurses - if we consider it tertiary training, and I do - in hospitals to the double stream where some of the nurses are trained totally in the hospital environment and others are trained in a degree course in the particular nursing subject. There are some arguments about whether this is a desirable development. The fact is that it is very real in other countries. We may well have to face up to this shortly and have to consider not only ballet students and medical records librarians but other groups as well. 
It is largely on the senior secondary scholarships that I would like to speak. It is obvious from the Minister's remarks that there is to be an increase in the number of scholarships. He mentioned that 48,000 scholarship holders will be involved. This has to be considered in conjunction with the legislation that he proposes for students to receive benefits under the Government's new secondary allowances scheme. When one looks at this field one becomes rather confused. With these measures I doubt whether we will make any great fundamental impact upon the inequalities that are already inherent in our educational and social systems, so we should not expect too much of them. Other measures will deal with these inequalities that are inherent in our system. I think that all honourable members have studied the Karmel Committee report very thoroughly and know the measures that are proposed there to try to reduce the fundamental inequalities that exist. So we see this type of assistance as purely ancillary. I think we ought to remind ourselves that the problem with the senior secondary scholarships scheme was the number of disadvantages it introduced. In general it provided financial assistance for secondary education to those families least in need of such assistance. Probably such a scheme has an adverse effect on the motivation and aspirations of able secondary school students who fail to obtain such a scholarship. It fail: to achieve its stated objective, which is to encourage students who may otherwise not have done so to complete their secondary education. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to experience with the secondary scholarship scheme in the past. I think that there are further matters that should be noted about that scheme. For example, the awards under the scheme number about one-eighth of the grade 10 enrolments. (Quorum formed.) I thank the lonely Country Party member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  for his assistance in calling a quorum. In referring to some of the other disadvantages in the past of the Commonwealth secondary scholarship scheme I was referring to the fact that the awards number about one-eighth of the grade 10 enrolments. Being on a competitive basis, they carried with them the implication that those who did not win a scholarship had somehow failed, with the result that some were discouraged from continuing secondary education - a contradiction of the intent of the scheme. There is also evidence that only a small proportion of winners was influenced to continue secondary education as a consequence of obtaining a scholarship. The disproportionate number of scholarships per enrolment won by children in independent, nonRoman Catholic schools has helped to develop a feeling in the community that this element of government aid enlarged rather than reduced the gap between privileged and underprivileged students which already existed in our schools. This feeling is now so strong that no action such as the increase in the number of awards is likely to have any impact. It also needs to be recognised that on average students from high income or higher status families will stay longer at school and perform better on tests of scholastic achievement. Therefore any scheme of assistance based on scholastic ability will favour those who are already advantaged. 
While I appreciate the steps taken in the Bill I believe that the further expansion of assistance to students in the secondary system of schools will need to be free from the complications of the secondary school scholarship scheme and its long and divisive history. Even through greater accent will be on the student receiving benefits under the Government's new secondary allowance scheme, as I mentioned earlier, other measures will be needed to reduce the inequalities that exist in our system at present. On a previous occasion I referred to the reading abilities of students in a high school in my electorate. That same school has run a literacy survey during this year. The tests applied were the Gapadol reading comprehension test of the Australian Council of Educational Research, which was administered  to forms 1 to 4; a standard essay, which was set for forms 3 and 4; a word recognition test to substantiate results of the first 2 tests, followed by a general discussion and criticism of these tests as they were applied. A substantial number of students experienced reading difficulties. Their reading age is substantially lower than their chronological age. Unfortunately, when I raised this matter on another occasion honourable members opposite used the occasion to attack the teachers in the schools instead of realising that it was the action taken by the teachers that was showing up the difficulties. In this survey it was shown that 37 per cent of students in form 1, 34 per cent in form 2, 38 per cent in form 3 and 39 per cent in form 4 needed remedial instruction. A large number of students with reading difficulties were of migrant origin. There was no co-relation between reading age and writing skills. There was little stimulation provided for advanced readers, and many students were unable to cope with formal instruction. They were little affected by this instruction and they were apparently alienated from formal class instruction. 
I think it should be realised that one of the problems in our schools at the moment is the large class sizes and the heterogeneous grouping of classes with a wide ability range. It is difficult to cater for the ability level of all students, hence there is a high probability of student failure. This becomes a reinforcement of the students' sense of inadequacy and effectively becomes a barrier to learning, since the experience is always essentially negative and destructive of the students' self image. Hence we get a resentment response in many students. The alienation response in more able students occurs because they lack sufficient stimulation in this type of situation, hence they must attempt to generate their own motivation or face boredom. Unfortunately boredom appears to be a common response. More importantly, these students are not realising their full potential. 
I appreciate the steps that are being taken in this legislation. It will assist and will give an opportunity to many students to continue their education, but I think we also have a responsibility to realise that the other steps that are being taken will make far more impact in correcting the inequalities that exist in our education system. Happily, I believe that the Minister for Education, in the Bills that he has introduced to this Parliament and the Bills he has predicted for the future, has shown that he realises that we have the situation I have described. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who is sitting at the table, not only has had considerable experience as a teacher and a parliamentarian but has had the community interest in the schools in his constituency at heart and has probably seen in the schools in his own electorate some of the factors I have raised. I know he has spoken about them. I know he is conscious of them and I know he will work to see that other means are used to correct them. So while we have at the Australian Government level this consciousness of the needs, while we are prepared to accept that this type of student assistance legislation plays a role in encouraging education, we do not see this legislation as a panacea to correct educational problems. One can only hope that the State Ministers for Education, particularly if I may say so the Minister for Education in my own State of Victoria, will accept the assistance that is offered through this scheme and also through many of the other schemes and proposals that arise from the Karmel report. It is to be hoped that they will accept the assistance and apply it properly. That may be a pious hope in some instances but certainly this Parliament should be a watchdog in that area and should raise these matters constantly so that the public and the parents of these children are aware of what can and should be done. 
I also am conscious of the fact that this is the first time separate estimates for a Department of the Media have been presented. I think this is a most interesting development and it is worth while quoting, from the first annual report of the Department, the Secretary's comments on the presentation of the report. He says: 
The Department of the Media is unique. It has no precedent in older countries overseas, for until now they have tended to ignore, or had scant knowledge of, the need or the appetite of the public for more information about their own country and about Government: about what Government is doing and why it is doing it, about rights and privileges. 
Every democratic country has similar divisions to those embraced by the Department of Media. Coordinating these divisions for the public benefit is an Australian initiative. 
I welcome this development for some of the reasons which the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has advanced. I refer to the power of the media in the community today. The media is faced with a frightening responsibility in carrying out its duties. I think that the honourable member for Bradfield was rather unfair in saying that honourable members probably did not think about these matters. The problem is that we think about these matters but the guidelines are so difficult. On the media there must devolve a high ethical standard. And who decides what is an ethical standard? There must be accuracy of reporting because there can even be distortion of visual reporting, as occurs on television. There must be a responsibility of action in presenting cases. But as soon as one tries to lay down guidelines, the horrible ogre of censorship or the Goebbel's type propaganda rears its head in public discussion, and I believe that this is probably what deters a great deal of discussion and action in the field. So one trusts that the media itself will soundly think about this matter, and that many of the shocking examples of the media's irresponsibility that we have seen of late will not recur. 
I wish to comment on the television and radio sections of the media, but not so much in the field of the national network of broadcasting and television stations, nor of the commercial network, both of which we trust will be able to preserve their high degree of autonomy. I think that these networks are essentially for entertainment and, to some extent, for the presentation of news. But I believe that we should give a lot more impetus to the introduction of a third system, both for radio and television, which might well cater to minority groups and which would serve a very useful purpose. It should be a system that serves the educational process. It could be integrated with the functioning of schools and with the concept of an open university. I know that educational programs are shown on the national network at the present time, but to me they are inappropriately placed there; they would be better in a separate system. A great deal of information could be given about government functioning and parliamentary functioning, whether it be in the Federal or State spheres. 
My other criticism is of the traditional news and current affair services that are provided at the present time. There are many good programs in this field, but they occur at regular times; when they will be seen is preordained. Because of this they lack much in freshness and originality. One of my early impressions in this field was gained in 1968 in America. I happened to be there at the time when Robert Kennedy was assassinated. It was very interesting to see the news services that were given at that time. Regular programs were dropped and the television stations devoted themselves to giving the facts of what was happening and what was proceeding from it. Shortly after that time students at the Colombia University took over the administrative building. One of the television stations, instead of proceeding with its usual soap operas and so on, did a current affairs program on the spot at the time of the occupation of the building, with rebellious student leaders and conventional student leaders being interviewed there and then. The program was visible on the television screen to millions of people, and it really conveyed the sense of what was happening in what was a fairly ugly situation. This service could be provided in Australia through a third system. Many other features in cultural areas and so on could also be accommodated. I think there is room for a third system. I think that we have to look at this question, and perhaps the new Department of the Media might give added incentive in this regard. 
One could go on and talk about the problems that we will face with frequency modulation and colour television. Undoubtedly other honourable members will speak on those subjects. Fairly recently there was introduced a points system which attracted a lot of hysterical reaction in the media. I think that position has settled down now. Reference to the system is contained in the first report of the Department of the Media. It is clear from the report that the system was introduced in a genuine attempt to ensure Australian content in programs on radio and television and increased use of Australian material as well as of artists. I think that the system is to be commended and not condemned in an hysterical manner. 
One other area that comes under the Department of the Media is the Australian Information Service. The Australian Government Publishing Service does much in publishing many Government publications, some of which like Hansard are undoubtedly widely read, while others are of a more topical nature on Australian areas and Australian happenings. But the Australian Information Service has as one of its vital functions the job of conveying the Australian story in other countries. It does this in a variety of ways. I want to offer a word of commendation to the Australian Information Service for what it does overseas. Recently a member of my family was living in the United States for 12 months and he, as an Australian visitor, was expected to talk on and give a picture of what was happening in Australia. The Australian Information Service has regularly supplied material to him on current happenings in Australia and that material has been presented to the American people. It is presented in an excellent form, it is easy to understand and it tells the Australian story. In fact, the material so attracts the American people that they would like to be regular receivers of it. I think that we should look to expanding our Information Service overseas so that it is available to a much wider range of users. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? 
Even a cursory glance at the current enrolments for Federal divisions shows that there is a considerable variation in enrolment between the divisions. Diamond Valley in Victoria, for example, has an enrolment of 83.970 electors as at 26 October 1973 whereas Maranoa in Queensland has an enrolment of only 45,800 electors. Thus, if an election for this House were held tomorrow, an elector in Maranoa would have a vote worth 1.83 times the vote of an elector in Diamond Valley. Current enrolment details for State legislatures make the Federal figures look almost respectable. The schedule shows how the technique of zoning has been used to achieve a degree of malapportionment that might be thought to occur only in fairy tales. 
This is the real situation in Australia today under Liberal-Country Party governments. Now we know why they do not want it on record. Now we know why they do not want to face the people at a referendum. Now we know why they have survived in government; it is because of gerrymanders and cooked electorates, which they seek to perpetuate. It is obvious that efforts to reform the basis of the electoral system to ensure equal representation for people in Parliament are bound to end in frustration. The only way in which the evils of malapportionment can be banned from the Australian political scene for all time is to inscribe the principle of equal representation into our Australian Constitution - one vote, one value. I thought 2 Country Party supporters were going to pass out just then. It is useless to attempt to enshrine such a principle in the Constitution of any particular State or States, for such Constitutions can be changed at the will of the Parliament concerned. The only Constitution that is unalterable except by the express permission of the Australian people is the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia. It is in our Australian Constitution that we must provide a strong guarantee of equal representation. 
That is the purpose of this Bill. As the Prime Minister said in his second-reading speech it is designed to seek approval for 'an amendment of the Constitution which would write into it the principle of substantial equality of electoral divisions for all the Parliaments of Australia and a provision that the State Houses of Parliament be elected directly by the people'. In those circumstances we find that honourable members opposite not only will not face the people at a referendum; they are ashamed to agree to publication of the details of their re-distribution. 
They seek by malapportionment to cling to power in this Parliament, and the Country Party will fight to the last in order to ensure that. Others yap along at the heels of the Country Party, and the former Prime Minister is one of them. Let us not forget that the members of the Country Party did not want the former Prime Minister once, and can honourable members blame them? Then they took him back and he nearly wrecked the country. Members of the Country Party were right the first time. I submit that the people are entitled to express their opinion on any issue, and honourable members opposite who fight that deserve the fate that they met at the last election. If they do not trust the people they should not be in government. This is precisely what the Leader of the Australian Country Party and other honourable members opposite will not do: They will not let the people pass judgment on a constitutional change. 
In the few remaining minutes I shall briefly refer to one particular aspect of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I remind members of the Committee of paragraphs 64 to 67 inclusive of the report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation of last year. In those paragraphs emphasis was placed on the relatively poor use of land use authorities both at Federal level and in the States. There is almost a complete absence of land use authorities in those areas though there is a growing need for their services. It was with some pleasure that I observed in recent months that CSIRO has effected a significant amount of re-orientation of its research program. 
An example of the re-organisation of the research program can be found in the reorganisation of the land resources research activities. That re-orientation has the objective of meeting more effectively the increasing demand for information by those concerned with environmental matters and land use planning. Three divisions in CSIRO have been grouped together under the title of the Land Resources Laboratories. Surveys will be conducted and research on land resources and their potential uses will take place. In addition, management techniques aimed at optimising land utilisation will be developed. Research on all aspects of Australian soils will be carried out. A pilot study of land use in the Eurobodalla Shire in the South Coast region of New South Wales has been commenced by the Division of Land Research, in collaboration with New South Wales Government authorities. This study, which will take account of all aspects of land use requirements, is designed to provide information to those responsible for the making of decisions about land use. It is a project that takes account of the needs of the community as a whole rather than of individual industries. This sort of work will provide an example of land resources research. From time to time members of the public and conservation groups protest about proposals to mine, clear or otherwise alter important natural areas but the real conflict is that, with the demand for productive use of resources being now so widespread, it is affecting some of the last natural areas. When those areas are threatened with alteration the public places higher values on them. 
I welcome the fact that the Land Resources Laborataries have been set up within CSIRO. This will have beneficial effects on land use in Australia. It is proposed to set up a biological survey of Australia under the direction of the Department of Science. The intention is to spend $750,000 on this project over a 3-year period. The small amount of $120,000 is available this year. There will be Commonwealth-State co-operation and the implementation of the proposal will plug up a hole that has existed for many years related to biological information, particularly about Australian fauna. This will be of benefit to the whole community and will improve our knowledge of our country. 
Motion (by  Mr Morrison)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 6.11 to 8 p.m. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
On behalf of the Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation, I present the report of the Committee on turtle farming in the Torres Strait Islands. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that a migrant smuggling racket has been uncovered in connection with Colombian migrants? If so, is it further a fact that a number of unfortunate Colombians who have been the victims of this racket are at present liable to deportation from Australia? What steps have been taken to end the racket? What will be the fate of the victims? Will the Minister exercise compassion in considering their cases? 
I listened with interest to the honourable member for Warringah (Mr MacKellar), particularly when he talked about the Australian Government holding guns at the heads of the State Premiers to force them to accept financial assistance. I do not know about his State, but I can assure him that certainly in Victoria during the last State elections the Liberal Premier and the Liberal Minister for Education accepted the guns at their heads with glee and very happily spent the extra finances that were to be made available to the Victorian Department of Education from these sources. In fact, in being fair minded and even handed, the honourable member for Warringah might have remembered that a Bill will be before the House tomorrow which makes provision for vastly improved expenditure on primary and secondary education. 
Another thing I should like to comment on is the statement of the  deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who implied that this Government was forcing a fourth university on Victoria at a specified site. The real problem in Victoria is that the Australian Universities Commission has waited so long for a statement from the Victorian Minister for Education as to this other institution that decisions have been delayed. Now the State Minister is trying to foist his own concept of this institution on local authorities. He is talking of multicampus type institutions in country centres. This is admirable in its concept, but one of the things in his concept is that this plan should be superimposed on teachers' colleges and completely ignores the existence of colleges of advanced education and technical institutes. 
For example, in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  the superimposition of a teachers college will mean the acquisition of a new site and the building of a new institution. The Gordon Institute of Technology, a well respected institution which already exists has a campus site at Waurn Ponds. An area is available for the site to be extended so that one good tertiary institution could be established there with a viable number of students. If the Victorian Minister gets his way with his double institution it will be a long time before a viable institution is established. There will be 2 sites and 2 buildings competing for finance and competing in every way. So I think that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would have been far better to have let that aspect alone. 
In looking at this group of Bills it is rather interesting to reflect that we are dealing in some instances with finance that was made available during the 1969-72 triennial allocations. These amounts have been reallocated so that they serve a useful purpose. The Bills actually bring up to date the allocations for teachers colleges, colleges of advanced education and universities in the 1972-75 triennium. I suppose that one might say that the real crunch will come in the next triennium of 1975-78 when one sees what sort of propositions are put forward for new courses, new concepts, and new facilities at tertiary institutions. 
In dealing with this matter of tertiary institutions I think it may be as well just to outline briefly the history of this type of financing of tertiary institutions. It indicates a rather basic difference in philosophy between the Government and the Opposition. The Australian Parliament in the past has concentrated far more on tertiary education than any other field of education. Earlier today I spoke of the grants that originated in war time for students in protected faculties. Their fees were paid, they were given book and equipment allowances and they were paid a living allowance according to a means test. Such students had to promise to give 3 years service to the Commonwealth Government if required. As far as I know no student was ever required to fulfill that promise. 
In the post war period this scheme was added to by the Commonwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme, which produced many graduates from ex-servicemen. However, then there was a change of government and a change in philosophy. We then had the Commonwealth tertiary scholarships scheme - I use the term tertiary scholarships scheme to group all the schemes together - which served a completely different function. The previous schemes had relied on the ability of the student to qualify for university entrance. The Commonwealth scholarships scheme, which had its good points, however, relied on the student being allocated a position on merit. It was easier for those who were privileged and advantaged in their educational backgrounds to obtain these awards. One feels that perhaps many students who would have benefited under the previous scheme were disadvantaged by the subsequent scholarship scheme. With the change of Government there is now a swing back to a situation in which all students at tertiary institutions will be able to attend without paying fees and will receive appropriate living allowances. This will increase the opportunities for persons to pursue their educations. Some doubts have been expressed that this process may lead to a overloading of the institutions. Only time will tell. 
I would have joined those who criticise the Australian Government concern with tertiary education as the main thrust of its education policy if it were not that this Government has instituted measures which will give a substantial injection of finance into other areas of education. When I think of the situation of 39 per cent of fourth form students in one high school requiring remedial education, I feel that the primary and secondary sphere of education should have more money spent on it. However, it is a historical fact that the Government has accepted tertiary education as essentially its primary concern. Now, we are getting down to the really nitty-gritty - to primary and secondary education and to disadvantaged children. 
So I am not going to criticise the Government's overriding tertiary interest as an initial interest. However, I think that there is an aspect that might arise out of our assistance to colleges of advanced' education, institutes of technology and universities. That is the extension into external studies and open universities of opportunities for those who have not formal university or college of advanced education entrance qualifications. I mention this because the La Trobe University in my electorate has run a rather interesting project under which it has admitted students who do not have the formal admission requirements of a university, nor have they even attempted to attain those qualifications. 
The university has admitted a number of students to courses on a trial basis, and their performance has been very good. One feels that opportunities should be given for an extension of this. As far as I can ascertain, only the University of New England and the Macquarie University have schools for external studies. I believe that many people could be benefited by universities increasing the opportunities for external studies. I think perhaps that the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  was nodding his head then. These external studies courses are most helpful for persons in remote areas, just as they are for persons even in urban areas where the opportunity to attend tertiary institutions may be restricted by occupation or other reasons, although these persons wish to continue their education and to gain knowledge. I think that there is a very real role for an expansion of this facility. 
One of the other problems that is cited with regard to tertiary institutions in the question of whether institutes of technology and colleges of advanced education in awarding degrees may not by very inclination shift towards the university atmosphere and the university concept of courses. I can recall the occasion when on behalf of the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament, I handled the Victorian Institute of Colleges Bill. We were told that the Victorian Institute of Colleges was to give much more practical degrees, that it was to follow the British concept of giving degrees in more technological sciences and so on, and that these degrees were to be for the practical persons with a practical knowledge of the various subjects rather than the purely didactic or theoretical learning of subjects. I have a reservation about some of the colleges of advanced education and institutes of technology. There is a tendency for these bodies to see themselves as being of the same kind as universities and for their courses gradually to alter to the university type courses. I think it would be a shame if these bodies overlooked their very real role in giving an education different from that given by the norma! university in the Oxbridge or red brick tradition. 
Sometimes we are amused about the subjects undertaken at colleges and universities in the United States of America. Sometimes we show some friendly amusement about the sort of units with which students can be credited for courses undertaken. But looking at the overall situation, I think there is much benefit in these wiser and practical courses that allow persons to acquire quite a breadth of general education which may not necessarily suit them for a particular vocation or profession but which may very well suit them ideally for every day life, communication with their fellows and the conduct of whatever the activities in which they are engaged. So I hope that colleges of advanced education and institutes of technology will use their facilities to give this variety of courses in the community for other than formal occupations. 
One has some other queries regarding the question of fees not being paid at tertiary institutions. I think that one also has to start thinking about those students who, having taken a first degree, look forward to taking a second degree either because it is a vocational one or because they have a love of knowledge for knowledge's sake. We may have to start to do some educational research on the motivation of these persons and the number of persons who are involved at tertiary institutions. I am sure, just as I spoke of the open university and the external studies departments, that this question of persons wanting to continue to second degrees will become really important. 
I note with some pleasure among the allocations in these Bills the allocation for the social worker course at the Preston Institute of Technology. The Preston Institute was one of the original members of the Victorian Institute of Colleges. It existed for many years in my electorate, but now it has shifted to another campus at Bundoora. I am pleased that this Institute will be able to set up its course in social work because there will be a much increased demand for social workers in the community, not only because federal authorities are increasing the instrumentalities that are using social workers to carry out their work but also because of the problems that exist and the much wider appreciation by people and institutions of the fact that social workers can serve a very useful purpose in the community. To illustrate that point, I have in my electorate one state school which is in a socio-economically deprived area. The committee at that school is most anxious that social workers should be associated with the staff of the school to deal with many of the problems facing the children at the school. At the present time these social workers are just not available. I am pleased that grants such as that to be made to the Preston Institute of Technology will result in an increase in the supply of social workers who will be needed in the future. 
This cognate debate covers a very wide range of matters affecting tertiary education. 1 believe that this Government has kept faith in its allocation of money for these purposes. As I said during the earlier part of my speech, I think that the crunch will come in the next triennium, when we see just what this financial assistance has done for these tertiary institutions and how they will respond to the stimulus that they are given, because respond they must in the submissions that they make for the next triennium and in the variety of courses and the variety of facilities which they will make available and which will allow young men and women to cope with the needs of modern day life. 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen a statement by the Liberal Party spokesman on health that upon the implementation of the Government's health insurance scheme, there will be an immediate shortage of 900 beds in Melboure alone? Does this mean that there will be an enormous outbreak of illness the day the scheme is introduced, or alternatively that there are many thousands of people who cannot receive adequate hospital accommodation at the moment under the present scheme? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to support briefly the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders to allow for the time limits to be moved. I have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He said that I was stating that there was no public interest in the matters that are contained in these Bills. That is quite untrue. I challenged his statement in speaking against the motion to suspend Standings Orders that there was a public demand to hear this debate, which has deteriorated into tedious repetition and which on Thursday night last when it was being fully debated had the interest of 2 Liberal members who were present in the House. If that is the sort of interest displayed by the Opposition, the Standing Orders ought to be suspended to allow motions of this type to be moved. 
The trouble is that the honourable member for Hotham is no longer a knight in shining armour dragging the Liberal Party screaming into the 20th century but is Chipp the magic dragon who huffs and puffs and gets nowhere. There has been tedious repetition in the debate on this legislation. The Press over a period of months allowed honourable members to discuss the Government's health scheme. But now the Press is so disinterested that the comments on it are put in the back pages of newspapers. The matter no longer warrants the interest of the media.  Sir, I  think that it is making a travesty of the Parliament for one after another of the members of the Opposition to rise to talk on this Bill and to repeat the same old canards about socialisation of medicine, and so on. I support the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. 
I listened with some interest to the speech made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp))  on this Bill. I find the honourable member quite disarming. He says that he agrees with the philosophy of the Bill. He has foreshadowed an innocuous amendment and I thought that this was normal behaviour in these circumstances. He talked about consultation with the States and having regard to the view expressed. He then set up a number of scarecrows which he proceeded to knock down, at least in part, himself. One thing that shone through his speech was the fact that he did make an endeavour to divide the things which the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  is proposing from those which the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is proposing. I am sure that this was quite deliberate. But in doing so he did himself no credit because this Bill which proposes to set up a Hospitals and Health Services Commission is part of an overall pattern of health services and social services that is being put forward by the Government. 
To me the establishment of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission is one of the most exciting and stimulating areas of the total picture of health services that is going forward. But it by no means can be taken in isolation from the overall picture of what is occurring. What is occurring in Australia reflects a worldwide change that is taking place. One cannot help but feel that the Opposition is acting like a group of King Canutes trying to stop the tide, trying to stop the inevitable simply by trying to divide a comprehensive plan for health and social security up into a number of groups. The Government has made quite clear the fact that it has a policy over the whole area. It has been spelling out that policy. I must contrast this approach with that of the Opposition. I recall that only a couple of months ago the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who was at that time the Opposition spokesman on health, announced that the Opposition had a policy. I think the policy was something to do with contractual arrangements with doctors after the style that is occurring in regard to the compensation matter in Victoria at the moment where doctors are to contract with the Commission so that they receive payment for insurance cases that might drag on. But then, of course, there was a change in the shadow spokesman for health. Such was the change that I would like to read an article that appeared in 'Phial Copy', No. 3 (New Series) October 1973. The article was headed: Shadow Minister Appointed by Liberals'. It stated: 
Following the reshuffle of portfolios occasioned by the retirement from politics of the  Hon.  Nigel Bowen, Q.C., the  Hon.  D. L. Chipp, M.P., has been appointed 
Opposition spokesman on Social Security, Health and Welfare. 
Among other things the article stated: 
When approached for an interview for 'Phial Copy,  Mr Chipp  declined, explaining that his Committee had not yet fully worked out Liberal Party policy, and invited an approach at a later date. 
After many years of experience in government this was a confession that the Party that had been the principal partner in government did not have a policy on these areas. In fact, the honourable member for Hotham expressed some doubts about the terms of reference of the Commission. Certainly there are wider opportunities for funding in the terms of reference for the permanent Commission. I cannot see why he takes objection to that. 
The honourable member raised the question of consultation with the States. I can see why some Ministers for Health were concerned about this Bill. I entered the Victorian Parliament on the same day as the present Victorian Minister for Health, so I know his performance well. Those State Ministers have much to fear from an investigation of health services in their States. There are deprived areas without medical services, areas without adequate hospital beds and country areas with no provision or minimal provision of facilities which are all the responsibility of the State governments. Because they have concern that these various deficiencies will be revealed, undoubtedly they have some objection to the Commission's moving in and having a look. I am sure that the people concerned in the matter will be supporting this approach so that we will know what the needs of the areas are. 
One can accentuate the matter in Victoria by referring to the recent Press statement of the Minister for Health. In Victoria there is a serious situation in relation to health care facilities for 3 needy areas - the areas that the honourable member for Hotham said should be assisted. They are the Deer Park and Kingston areas of Melbourne and the Eaglehawk district of Bendigo where there is a serious shortage of doctors and other health services. The Federal Government has offered a grant of more than S2.5m for the community health programs in these areas but so far the Victorian Government has not acted on this offer. The Minister has delayed commenting on this matter. After all, these are needy areas and the people in these areas cannot wait to receive the basic health care facilities that they should receive. So much for consultation with the States. 
Members of the Opposition and others have adopted the unfortunate attitude of trying to discredit any health institution that comes under government auspices. For example, we have a very fine repatriation system of hospitals. One of my constituents, a  Mr J.  B. McCann, was recently in the Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital. He wrote to the 'Herald' on 6 October and stated: 
Having read a lot of comments by a minority of doctors opposed to the health scheme proposed by the Labor Government, I would like to express mine. 
I interpose to say that this gentleman understands that the Government's health plan is an overall, comprehensive one and cannot be divided into little compartments. The letter continued: 
I am in the Repatriation Hospital at Heidelberg and have found that the dedication, care and attention from the specialists, doctors and the nursing stait is something I cannot speak highly enough of. 
This hospital is run on the same scheme as the Minister for Health proposes in his Bill. 
Health is the paramount concern of the Government, not wealth. 
This man expressed what he felt about a Commonwealth hospital, and what was the response? An anonymous letter was sent to him including a copy of the book 'Be In It, Mate'. The envelope was post marked Geelong so it must have come from one of the constituents of my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  The letter said: 
The answer to your letter in the paper. Do we want the whole nation to be bludgers? 
What sort of program is that, trying to denigrate what are excellent institutions? 
The delivery of health services in our community has been artificially divided in the past. We have had some preventive health services, usually conducted by governments at various levels; quarantine services conducted at the Federal level; immunisation campaigns at both State and local government levels; and public health services also at those levels. There has been the curative field of health services, largely conducted on a private basis or in government institutions. Finally, there has been the provision of a separate group of mental health services. I believe that this is a tremendously artificial division of health services. 
In the Hospitals and Health Services Commission we have an instrument which may overcome much of this artificial division. In the past preventive medicine has been looked on as dealing with infectious disease or matters of public health, but we are becoming more and more aware of the stresses and strains of the environment, of the psychiatric factors that occur in the community, of the problems of inactivity of the housewife or other members of the community and perhaps the need for their retraining. We need to consider the rehabilitation of many people who are disabled in a number of ways and who need retraining to prevent them from moving on to another area of disease. We have to get over this question of separating our mental health services completely from the other health services. That is not a new concept. 
I recall when the mental health services in Victoria were at their lowest ebb and  Dr Cunningham  Dax took over and certainly improved those services He later had to give up in disgust and retreat to a new area in Tasmania. He wrote a book entitled 'From Asylum to Community'. In that book he put forward the proposition that institutions for the treatment of mental disease should not be separate from the normal flow of health services but should be located in a physical way close to the normal health stream instead of having this artificial division. Perhaps this is one of the things that the Hospitals and Health Services Commission could investigate and report upon under the very wide powers it has. It is a long time since there has been a comprehensive examination of hospital needs and the regionalisation of hospital services. When one reads the history of the development of hospitals in Australia one is surprised at the way they have just 'growed' like Topsy. I was recently reading a report by McEachern on the hospital services in Victoria in the 1920s. McEachern later distinguished himself with the system of accreditation and so on which has been instituted in American hospitals for the American College of Surgeons. He said just how marvellous the charitable hospital system was in the 1920s - a thing that would be quite unacceptable today. 
So we look with some pleasure to what this Hospitals and Health Services Commission may be able to do in identifying hospital needs and in identifying just how services can be provided most efficiently with the necessary finance injected into the system. There are various levels of activity at which this can occur. In fact when we talk of community health centres we should note some of the experiences in country areas. The proposition was put forward that there should be a district hospital at Queenscliff in Victoria, which is some 17 miles from the large base hospital at 
Geelong. That concept was changed more to the community health centre concept that was mentioned in the report of the interim committee. A similar situation occurred at Minyip with a lack of medical practitioners and other facilities. Much to the regret intially of the local people, it was suggested that the hospital should become one of these community health centres. I applaud the community health centre concept. The honourable member for Hotham criticised the Minister for Health for indicating the way in which he predicted the proportion of practice would develop in the future. But the Minister has indicated that we are looking for areas of need - areas of deprivation - in which to put these community health centres. 
It depends on over what period of time the honourable member takes it. If he looks at overseas trends and if he likes to take the United States of America- 
Yes. He should look at Russia where it is 100 per cent. 
I have. I have already been and looked at their polyclinics and their regionalisation and I have seen the effect of the medical services that they have there. I think perhaps we should go and look at some of these areas and learn from them. The honourable member might look at the Soviet system. He might even see some of the ways in which some of our deficiencies might be overcome. He might even go and look at some of the Scandinavian countries and see how across-the-board health services are given. He could go and look at the United States of America and Canada and see what has happened to general practice in America, where cost for the patient is forcing the general practitioner out of the community into these sorts of things. They are a disappearing race. The honourable member should realise that this is occurring. 
What the Minister for Health is proposing might preserve the personal type of physician in the community, even if the personal physician is in this horrible thing - this government community health centre. It is better to have it out there in the community with the doctor of first contact than to allow the situation to deteriorate so that there are no more doctors of first contact out in the community but they are all at some sort of centralised clinic or hospital. 
There are lessons to be learned and I hope the honourable member for Hotham will take the trouble at some stage to have a look at them. He will find it most rewarding. He will find that the Minister for Health has been very honest indeed in what he has expressed, because what he is doing is trying to preserve the doctor of first contact out in the community where people live.  His  initial effort is to supply this service for deprived and needy people such as those who live in the eastern part of my electorate where I hope he will put up one of his community health centres because there are no private practitioners there. The private practitioners in the rest of the area are over worked because the distribution of medical practitioners in the community is one of the problems. These are the real needs. 
The Minister for Health shows his compassion and his real concern for people when he admits that this sort of change is taking place. The other change that is taking place is that the community health services are disappearing out of the communities and going into centralised hospital areas under the most free-ranging private enterprise systems. I think that is one thing that should be considered. I think that is one of the scarecrows that the honourable member for Hotham put up and partly knocked down himself. I think he ought to rethink this. 
I welcome the fact that this Hospital and Health Services Commission is to become a real entity and not just an interim one. I am glad that its terms of reference have been widened. I am disappointed that the Victorian Minister for Health should have held up the supply of services in Deer Park, Kensington and Eaglehawk where the honourable member for Bendigo took part in the discussions and where his colleague the Victorian Minister for Health by his obstruction is not allowing people who need doctors to get them. The Australian Country Party should think of this, because there are many areas that they represent where I have stumped the countryside and have been asked how they could be helped. This commission gives them hope for help. I thoroughly support the concept of the Bill and I wish the Commission well. I look forward to its reports over the years. 
Several weeks ago I asked the Minister for Immigration a question regarding a racket involving illegal migrants from Colombia. What steps has the Minister taken to end the racket? If he has not taken appropriate steps, when will he act? Can the Minister tell the House what action he has taken to protect the unfortunate victims of the racket already in Australia? Have any of them left families in Colombia? If so, what action does the Minister propose regarding these families? 
Is leave granted? 
Order! The honourable member for Robertson will cease interjecting or he will be dealt with. 
On the other aspect of security let us turn to our foreign policy and the question of alliances. I do not want to deal at length with this matter either because I do not have time. Suffice it to say that alliances are based on trust. The outbursts from various Ministers over the last 15 months have seriously jeopardised the relationships which we have built up over a number of years with our traditional friends and injected a feeling of suspicion, a feeling of distrust and a feeling of a lack of knowledge of the strength of this Government. I believe that this feeling of distrust and unease is eminently justified and that it is a very serious indictment of the present Government. The second duty I mentioned was preserving the value of the people's money. Now and in the future we will hear a number of speeches on the rate of inflation, as we have heard in the past. There is no doubt that things have got completely out of hand. It is all very well to talk about inflation rates and percentages but I believe that people are not terribly aware of percentages. We can talk about inflation of 5 per cent, 6 per cent, 10 per cent, 12 per cent, 13 per cent or 14 per cent, which is the figure now, perhaps rising to 20 per cent as it has been alleged it will reach, but I think we ought to look at what this really means to the people and to the electorate as a whole. I have here a copy of a paper which was released today, Tuesday, 12 March 1974. 1 shall acquaint honourable members with it. The average wage earner in New South Wales has to work more than 30 per cent longer to pay for the same food items which he brought in March 1972. It now takes him more than 30 per cent longer at work to pay for these food items. 
Let us have a look at some of the individual food items and forget about percentages and what the Government is doing about imported inflation and the cause of it. This is the real crux of the matter. This is what hits people. This is what they have to pay. In 1972 bath size soap cost 10c. It now costs 17c. Processed peas - I am just picking out some of these items at random - cost 9c in 1972 but they cost 17c now. Eggs - everybody eats eggs - cost 46c a dozen for the medium size in 1972 but they cost 75c now. The price of 1 lb of lamb chops in 1972 was 50c but the price is $1 now. Sausage meat - this could not be called a luxury item - in 1972 cost 20 per lb. Now it costs 40c, which is just double that amount. Potatoes which are not a luxury item cost 50c for 101b in 1972. The cost is now $1.20. This is where inflation really hits home. There is no doubt that the people who can ill afford to pay are most affected because of the financial irresponsibility engendered by this Government. What do the pensioners say? They are a group which could not be said to have supported the Liberal Party in the past. They are a group of people in the population which the Labor Party pretends - I use that word advisedly - to represent. I have here a letter from the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation dated 27 February 1974 which states: 
Whilst it is true that the Australian Government is honouring its policy  pledge  to increase all social security pensions twice yearly by payment of $1.50 per week, it is not true for anyone to assert that material improvement has taken place - the continuing and increasing rate of inflation has prevented improvement. 
Inflation, now besetting so many countries, in Australia is making life intolerable for those most seriously affected. They cannot add to their income or assets to cushion the destroying effect of rising prices on the purchasing power of their weekly pension. 
Truly, pensioners are the victims of inflation. 
These are the people this Labor Government purports to represent. The financial irresponsibility of this Government is obvious for everybody to see. We have before us at the moment the glaring example of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you know this matter is to be investigated by the Parliamentary Joint Committee of Public Accounts. It is a sorry record. It is a record of which this country and this Government should be ashamed. It is a record which places us, in terms of financial management, among the banana republics. I use that expression advisedly. It is a record which, coming after a period of 23 years of stability- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Education, is in some ways supplementary to the question addressed to the Treasurer by the honourable member for Kingston. Has the Minister for Education seen reports of Opposition spokesmen promising to cut public expenditure and reduce taxation by at least $600m while simultaneously stepping up very greatly government outlays for defence and health insurance? In view of the record - 
Order! I ask the honourable member for Wakefield to contain himself. I will not warn him again. 
Order! The honourable member's; time has expired. 
I have often listened to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  with respect.  His  effort tonight has lost all the respect I previously held for him. He commenced his address by talking of the cynicism of the Government. I invite honourable members to consider whether they have ever heard such a load of cynical garbage as that which gushed forth from his lips during this Committee stage debate tonight. Here he was, speaking on matters which had been discussed previously in this Parliament, claiming that new members should be allowed to speak on them. I tell the Committee that if any of those new members had spoken on this Bill they would have made a much better job of it than the honourable member for Moreton did. 
The one-tenth variation in electoral quotas was approved in 1959 in the report by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, an all-party Committee. Were they not democrats in those days? Has the honourable member forgotten that recommendation?  His  snide remarks about members on this side of the House and their electorates had nothing whatsoever to do with the issue. In accusing the Government, has he forgotten that members of the Government Party hold 19 country seats including the largest electorate in Australia, Kalgoorlie, which is serviced by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)?  Does not the honourable member for Moreton believe that there should be as nearly as possible equality of representation in the number of electors represented by each member? Are members to be elected to this chamber on the basis of the wide open spaces or the grains of sand in their electorates? Has not the recent election presented an opportunity for new members to put their arguments on these matters which constituted one of the reasons why the election was held? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order the time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Has the Minister for Health received representations from the Victorian Minister for Agriculture regarding restoration of the free milk supply to Preston North East State School in my electorate because of the number of underprivileged children at the school? Should such requests coming from schools be channelled through State authorities, the local Federal member of Parliament or Federal authorities, or what is the machinery for such applications? Has a decision been made in the case of the school mentioned? 
Is leave granted for the incorporation of the amendments in Hansard? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
I have been .somewhat disarmed by the address of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I think some of those who knew him when he was on the Government side of the. House did accept that in social security matters his heart was far ahead of his head. One knows that he had great lack of success with his Cabinet colleagues in improving conditions. One can accept his rather old fashioned views on the role of the sexes in society but, when he relates the question of the working mother to the last 18 months only, it becomes rather laughable. Had he not heard of the 23-year period before that time when the economy was such that more and more women were forced into the work force because of economic circumstances and did not have the freedom of choice? 
He spoke with some feeling of the supporting fathers. I would have liked him to develop that subject a bit further and to ask him whether he would have expected the supporting fathers to stay home and look after the children on the same social security payments that were paid to the widowed mothers. However, as I have said, he is rather disarming when he makes a thoughtful contribution on social security matters. One cannot say the same about the small T Liberal member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  I listened to his diatribe on inflation without finding one concrete suggestion as to what should be done. I heard him challenge the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  to a debate in the Bowman electorate on the question of social security. I regret that the honourable member for Hotham has left the chamber. I issue a challenge to him. I should like him to come to the electorate of Scullin and debate with me his Government's record in social security as compared with our Government's record on social security. To show that it is not a case of inviting him into the lion's den, I would be prepared then to do a repeat performance in the electorate, of Hotham. I trust that some of his colleagues will pass that challenge on to him and that we may be able to go through this exercise. I would take great delight in quoting some of the letters from pensioner's organisations about the former Government's record. The. Secretary of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, in a paragraph of a letter, had this to say: 
It must be noted that from 1961 to 1972, the Liberal-Country Party Government carried out a 2-sided policy; reducing pensions in relation to average weekly earnings in association with the liberalisation of the means test, culminating in 1972 with doubling the income and the assets of the tapered means tests at the expense of the 'bread and butter' of those dependent, or largely so, on the basic or standard rate pension for their means of subsistence - to limit expenditure on social services. 
A further letter sent by that Federation to the editor of the Melbourne 'Age' stated in part: 
Then began the premeditated assault on both pensions - slowly, but surely. It must be mentioned that 'B' Class and 'C Class widows were not included in the standard rate. For those who had little or no means apart from the pension it was their 'bread and butter'. 
I might add that in 1973 the Whitlam Government - this Government - raised the pensions in those classes to the standard rate. The letter continued: 
With the 1970-71 Budget of 50c the basic rate pension fell to 16.2 per cent of average weekly earnings while the standard rate fell to 18.3 per cent. This 50c rise exposed to the nation the LiberalCountry Party policy of perpetuating poverty in a land of abundance and great national wealth. Like the 'Walrus and the Carpenter' in Alice in Wonderland they wept for their victims as they gobbled them up. Who will forget the 1967 Budget when the then Treasurer,  Mr McMahon,  expressed sympathy for pensioners for being left out of his 'investor's' and businessman's Budget because the economy could not afford it. 
I think it was on that occasion that he kissed one of the pensioners on the Parliament House steps to show his sympathy. 
The honourable member for Hunter assures me that is was on the third step. The letter continued: 
Or the great words often tossed around in Budget speeches, such as 'compassion' and the 'sharing' of the wealth. 
True, when  Mr McMahon  became Prime Minister he endeavoured to retrieve the situation and to make up to the 'lost generation' their losses. But it was too late as  Mr McMahon  found out . . . 
One thinks that perhaps when the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who was then the Treasurer, tried to retrieve the situation it was a cynical political exercise. I regret that the honourable member for Hotham did not allow the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  to incorporate a table in Hansard. It is far too long to read but the honourable member for Hotham should have allowed people to be able to check the figures in relation to the Labor Party's record on pension increases. I can only assume that the honourable member for Hotham was scared of the facts contained in that table. 
He then had the temerity to raise the question of rentals. I assume he was dealing with the rentals of private dwellings. The honourable member for Hotham comes from Victoria. He is a Liberal member from Victoria. I am not sure what Liberal faction he belongs to but since the Opposition has left government he seems to have traversed from the trendy to the conservative faction. However, he may have some relation with the Victorian Liberal Government where housing commission rentals for pensioners are raised by that State and its Housing Commission every time there is an adjustment in the pension at the Federal level. That action is quite inexcusable. Nothing is done to protect the pensioners from the private predators who increase rentals after an increase in the pension rate. The Victorian Government, I might add, made a hollow promise with regard to rate rebates for pensioners but they are still waiting for some benefit. 
I have the uneasy feeling when we make adjustments to pensions, such as is now proposed, that a fair amount of patronage and charity goes into the debate. I do not point the finger at any members on either side of the House; I think we all suffer from it. That element should not intrude into the debate. Pensions should be the right of those citizens because of their services to the community. The rates of pensions should bear some relationship to their real needs in the community. In passing I refer to the Interim Report of the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry because in this report the basis is being laid for bringing about this desirable situation for pensioners. That Interim Report in its introduction comments that although the national superannuation scheme covered contingencies such as voluntary, early or deferred retirement, invalidity, widowed survivor, mortality grant for surviving spouse, unemployment and sickness, they, the members of the inquiry, concentrated initially on the nature of a suitable scheme for ensuring adequate income for the aged. In that thoughtful report reference was made to many of the political and social values which must be assessed in dealing with this particular matter. While with this $5 increase this Government is getting somewhere near to its promise of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, I for one will not be happy until the whole pension scheme is replaced by a proper national superannuation scheme or a national insurance scheme. 
One matter that has been overlooked in debate is that the increases to pensions will apply also to the unemployment benefit, the sickness benefit, special benefits, sheltered employment allowances and rehabilitation allowances. Unemployment and sickness benefits comprise an area which has come under attack in recent months. With this most recent increase unemployment and sickness benefits for married persons will increase by 106 per cent. Unemployment and sickness benefits for single persons aged 21 or more will increase by more than 82.4 per cent; for persons aged between 18 to 20 years by 181.8 per cent and for persons aged 16 and 17 years by 313.3 per cent. In other words, an attempt has been made to give these persons in the social security field some real value for what they need. 
There has been an attack which suggests that many of those obtaining these allowances are bludgers and spivs. I want to combat that sort of conditioning that members of the Opposition are trying to carry out in the community. There will always be a percentage in the community who are unemployed because they are unemployable due to defects in character or mental makeup. We, as a deliberate act, must see that they are properly supported. I think the community owes that to them. There are others who have similar social, medical and psychological difficulties and who, if their difficulties are spotted, can receive appropriate assistance and retraining. I believe that the departments concerned in this area are doing just that. 
In my electorate of Scullin, at the Northlands centre, is a local branch of the Department of Social Security. My office shares the same building as the Commonwealth Employment Service. I am impressed by the real effort that is being made to assist the people in the unemployed group and chronic illness group with retraining and proper placement in employment. I believe it is to be deplored that members and organisations are deliberately trying to abate the benefits that we are paying in this field by suggesting that there are so many who take advantage of them. I reject this argument. If these statements are made, I ask that we have not vague general stories about unemployed lion tamers but a few facts. I know my own area and surrounding areas, and I have looked at the figures. I have tried to trace some of these alleged abuses and have found very few indeed. 
I put some time into that area of social security because so often the pension aspect of these social security measures overshadows everything else. I am sure that the $5 that is being granted on this occasion will be appreciated by those who will rightfully receive it. They have every right to receive it and to enjoy the benefits of day to day life. One of the things that concerns me - here I am getting a little like the honourable member for Mackellar and moving off into other areas - is the question of fringe benefits. I have already mentioned how the concessional rentals given by the Housing Commission of Victoria are eroded by rental increases after pension increases. 
But there is also the question of fringe benefits that are given to pensioners. There are the medical services that are given by negotiation with the Australian Medical Association. There used to be a signed agreement. I can remember signing it once. But it is a matter of negotiation, not of right. Another benefit is hospital accommodation, which is a matter of negotiation with State governments and which causes some arguments. Transport privileges are also a matter for State governments. And so we could go on with a whole range of fringe benefits. In social security measures these have no real place. If the social security pensioner or beneficiary receives a proper amount there is no need for these transitory fringe benefits to be used. In increasing the amount of pension we have taken a step forward in improving the lot of the pensioner and recipient of social security benefits. There is still a long way to go, but I trust that in the life of this Parliament we will see a national superannuation scheme or national insurance scheme which will serve more fully the purpose we desire. 
In conclusion, I reiterate that any time the honourable member for Hotham would care to visit the electorate of Scullin I will see that the Town Hall is made available and that there is an audience, and I will debate with him this Government's record in social services and his record in social services. I hope he will offer the same courtesy to me in the electorate of Hotham. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

Order! I have allowed the honourable member a reasonable degree of latitude in his opening remarks, but I remind him that the Bill deals with the establishment of a fully elected Legislative Assembly for the Northern Terri tory. He is traversing a rather wider field. I think he will appreciate that I have allowed him some latitude. 
During the past 26 years there have been substantial changes in the nature of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. It moved from being a body in which there was a dominance of official appointees to a body on which 3 non-official appointees held the balance of power, and to the present Council of 17 members, 11 elected by vote and 6 public servant appointees. Each of these men in his own way and according to his own lights did a reasonably dedicated job. In some cases it was a tremendously dedicated job. This legislation will allow for the election of 19 councillors, one of whom will be elected as  Speaker  by his fellow councillors. Five of the councillors together with the Northern Territory Administrator will form the Administrator's Council. This measure can be traced directly to a statement made in this place in October 1972 by the then Minister for the Northern Territory, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  What a splendid, intense and detailed job he did in the Territory. He tabled a paper he had prepared entitled 'Northern Territory - Form of Government'. 
The discussions which ensued resulted in support for the principle enshrined in this legislation of a fully elected Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. So far so good. But there, is no provision in the Bill - other than that I have enunciated, and that is very little, regarding the powers of the Assembly - for the formation of an Executive. There is no provision for resolution of the question of whether the Executive will constitute with the Administrator the Administrator's Council. There is no indication that there will be a transfer of powers and responsibilities to the Legislative Council from the Commonwealth authority and consideration of revenue raising requirements consistent with the authority of the Council. I cannot see in this legislation any indication of the formation of electoral divisions in the Northern Territory or the nature of those divisions, and we must bear in mind that the election for the fully elected Northern Territory Legislative Assembly must be held before 24 October 1974. 
I know that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is responsible for this legislation, is caught in a cleft stick, to use his own phrase of some days ago, with regard to the 4 points that I have just mentioned. But I would like to point out that although the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory has been given a charter in respect of these matters it has a problem with that charter. The deadline is not a deadline for the Committee to present a report, it is a deadline for the election to be held before 24 October 1974. Does that make sense? I again say that it is not a deadline for the Committee to present its report. It is a deadline for the election to be held with great haste before 24 October 1974. A 'swifty' report on the Committee's references will not be conducive to the future development of the fully elected Legislative Assembly. Surely a reasonable man - 'most of us here at least claim to be reasonable men - would appreciate the fact that the Committee was given a matter almost of days to prepare its report but before the report is received there is a rush election. This is a tremendously important milestone in the history of the Northern Territory and I am sure that to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  it is a culmination of a dedicated crusade, if you like. He must feel, as does everyone else in the Territory, that there is something questionable about the tremendous haste to hold an election almost preceding the Committee's report. 
Before discussing the points I have already raised I should like to refer to the proceedings of the 1973 Australian Constitutional Convention. This Convention may have been considered to be sterile in many respects. We do not see any great extension of the enthusiasm or the prelude of enthusiasm to this Convention. We are all wondering just what will happen eventually. I suppose the Convention was of  considerable  significance and of tremendous importance to those who were seeking some constitutional progress in the Northern Territory. At that Convention  Mr Ward,  representing the Northern Territory Legislative Council - an Australian Labor Party representative on that Council - said:   . . the more the Territory is constitutionally developed, the less likely is that the Commonwealth will be able to retain it. Self Government must be distinguished from statehood, and the Territory will talk about statehood after it achieves self Government. 
Someone has just not noticed that here is a statement contrary to the whole of the centralist policy, the destructive centralist policy, of this Government. It makes one wonder how  Mr Ward  retains his membership of the ALP. Under this legislation the Northern Territory is to get a fully elected Legislative Assembly but not self-government. That is a pretty important difference.  Mr Ward  has incorporated in the record of the proceedings of the Constitutional Convention the preliminary submission of the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory. I inform the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, that I did confer with my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson, who agreed to the incorporation of part of that submission. I now ask for leave. 
To put the matter in order, I think that the honourable member for Wannon should move his amendments at this stage. 
-I wish to speak only briefly to this motion. With regard to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  I find myself, probably in common with some other honourable members, in some confusion as to how to consider the amendment. The amendment in itself may have been better dealt with by considering Order of the Day No. 7, consideration of which has been postponed. I cannot very well debate the subject matter of that motion. I think the honourable member for Moreton would admit that there is some room for argument and discussion as to which motion could have been taken first and whether what he seeks to attain might not have been better dealt with in a consideration of the postponed motion dealing with the pecuniary interest of members of the House of Representatives. 
I believe that the honourable member for Moreton has commented fairly on some of these matters. My own experience in investigating these sorts of aspects occurred with the Statute Law Revision Committee of the Victorian Parliament when the matter before that Committee concerned the pecuniary interests of local government councillors. Admittedly the position of a local government councillor is not a salaried one. But traditionally, I think in all States of Australia, a requirement exists for the declaration of pecuniary interests when matters affecting such pecuniary interests arise at local government level. So it has been that there have been variations in what has been put forward over the years. 
If I recall correctly, at one stage in New South Wales aldermen or councillors were required to register their pecuniary interests with the town clerks of their municipalities. It may not have been a requirement but it was the tradition that was certainly followed by the Sydney City Council to protect those aldermen from speaking on issues in which they had unwittingly a pecuniary interest and so risked disqualification. I can agree with the honourable member for Moreton that one of the important aspects is the classes of pecuniary interest that should be put forward. With some humour, the honourable member mentioned his pekingese. 
-I must admit that my material assets are somewhat less even than the honourable member's. My prize is a budgerigar. But the classes of pecuniary interest must very carefully be considered. For instance, in a rural local government area there may be only one hardware merchant for miles around. The municipality may have to purchase its supplies of nails or shovels from that merchant, for convenience sake. That merchant would be precluded in those circumstances from taking part in local government because of bis pecuniary interest. The same sort of situation could apply at both Federal and State levels. These classes will need to be spelt out. This motion provides the opportunity for classification of the types of pecuniary interest. How registrations should be completed is also an aspect that allows a great deal of investigation and variability. Other questions which arise include: How is the register to be maintained? To whom is it available? What details are included? 
One other matter- I do not think the honourable member for Moreton mentioned this- concerns what classes of persons, if any, other than members of Parliament, ought to be required to register? That is a fairly wide category to consider. It could be seen to apply to the immediate families of members. In local government, where at times there have been members who have not quite shown that desire to serve their community, the tendency has been to shift assets and to have them appear under other names and only investigations of the direct or indirect family have shown them up. I do not wish to push that point too hard,, but it is a consideration that would have to come before such a committee. It is something to which the House must give consideration. 
I do not want to enlarge on what the honourable member for Moreton has said about the situation in the United Kingdom. He mentioned a ruling there 100 years ago of a former  Speaker.  He has referred to the Strauss Committee which has studied this matter. Other countries have looked at it in the same fashion. I have no doubt that recently many honourable members have read of the nomination for Vice-President of the United States of America of Nelson Rockefeller and of the sorts of requirements that exist there for the examination of his pecuniary interests. 
Well, I do not know whether it is when there are large interests that could be influenced by position or where, wittingly or unwittingly, members could be influenced in their attitudes taken to certain matters. There are circumstances in which doubts exist whether people may have been influenced. There was an occasion in Victoria: The Minister in charge of one authority was also a substantial shareholder in a company that supplied drink machines at suburban railway stations. Whether that was a proper and ethical parliamentary practice was open to some question. I did not want particularly to mention that type of thing. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  mentioned another incident in his State. I do not particularly want to spell them out at this stage, but I think we have to admit that the possibility exists and we ought to look at it and think about it. I have no doubt that the great majority take the attitude that they are here to serve their electorate, but we have seen one very vital incident recently of a very prominent politician who reached one of the highest positions that is politically possible in the world today and who completely and unethically and immorally sold the principles of his country down the drain. I do not think we can disregard that sort of thing going on. 
I support the concept of having a committee. I have some sympathy with the thoughts put forward by the honourable member for Moreton. I just wonder whether his suggestions might not have been better applied to the other resolution which preceded this one, but that is a matter for his judgment I do urge the House not to let discussion and examination of this matter go by the board. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Will the honourable member come to his point of order. He is debating the matter. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-I wish to enter this debate to reiterate some of the matters that are contained in the Bill and to trace some of the reasons why they are there. I am rather pleased that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  raised the question of the courses or chairs of community practice. This problem is not a new one. Within the medical profession there has been a searching for many years as to the proper means of how to practise community medicine. I think that honourable members realise that at the moment there tends to be a vast separation between the general practitioner practising in the community and the associated services that go to make up a health team. For example, I graduated some 21 years ago. During my medical course an effort was made to inculcate some principles of community practice by sending students out to work with general practitioners for a few weeks to see what general practice was all about. As time has gone on, this has become a more sophisticated process. In many medical schools students in fourth year or fifth year undertake several weeks of elective work which may be concerned with general practice, in social fields, or in hospitals. The idea is to give these students some concept of the overall practice of medicine as opposed just to practice in hospitals which they are inclined to see. 
The Monash University has a Chair of Social and Preventive Medicine. When this Chair was initially mooted it was suggested that it be a chair of human ecology. I think the honourable member for Moreton will appreciate that this would take the faculty into its widest concept. The Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association set up a working party several years ago to discuss the way in which community practice should be carried out. That working party, which was composed, I think, of the then  president  of the Victorian Branch of the AMA, several members of the AMA, the Dean of one of the clinical schools and as one of its co-opted members my colleague, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  presented a report which showed that community practice preferably should involve integrated services in the sense of community health centres. In other words, within the profession itself there is a feeling towards medical services and the practice of medicine in the community which is preventive and which gives continuing care and makes use of all the ancillary services such as social workers, infant and welfare workers, marriage guidance counsellors and the various therapists to whom I could refer. 
They Royal College of General Practitioners has looked at many aspects of this matter. I believe that its most recent discussions have been to have a look at a system of medical records which, while preserving the confidential nature of their contents, would still allow a meaningful examination of the delivery of health care. We do face in Australia, which is a developed country, a malproportion of distribution of doctors in the community as well as not quite enough doctors to reach what is considered the desirable level for medical services. So, I hope that the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Bendigo are not being overly suspicious in the thought of these courses or chairs of community practice. There is increasing concern that more and more medical graduates are going into the specialist fields. The very nature of a medical course means that medical students are being taught by specialists, whether those specialists be surgeons, physicians, cardiologists or what-have-you. The student is influenced by the training given by the specialists. Not enough students are going out into that most satisfying specialty of all, general practice. So, the courses in chairs of community practice are intended to interest students and to train them in this comprehensive community health care aspect and in the use of the health team. 
The development of these community health centres has made this objective a much more viable proposition because they are there and they are able to be used. May I illustrate the point in this way: In my own electorate there is a proposition for a couple of community health centres in the West Heidelberg area and in the east Preston area. The Austin Hospital which is a major teaching hospital of the Melbourne University and the Preston and Northcote Community Hospital which is attached to the Medical School of the Melbourne University have both shown a great interest in what is going on at these community health centres. Hopefully, although in this Bill the facilities are those particularly in Queensland and South Australia, it will not be long before we get the same sort of proposition being put forward for other States. So, I welcome this encouragement of courses and chairs of community practice particularly as this need has been felt for so many years. The answers to it are still not known. By this study we will be able to use our health personnel to the benefit of the community in the community itself. 
I also welcome the increased funds for teaching and research into the special education of the handicapped. I hope that honourable members have noticed the significance of these grants. It is not just a matter of teaching techniques. Identifying the problems of those requiring special education also requires clinical and diagnostic facilities. But the degrees of handicapped are many and varied. There are all sorts of learning defects. There are comprehension defects, and such things as mirror vision. There is the lack of coordination between mind and limb. One could go on talking about the varieties that there are. Suffice it to say that this encouragement is welcome. 
The other aspect which I shall mention briefly is the finance that is offered for the increased number of social workers in training. This Government has taken many initiatives in education, health and social security which require the support of social workers. A great shortage exists of these trained persons. Examples such as the one I will now give are disturbing. I know of one hospital in Victoria which has a bed capacity of 323. That hospital has about the second highest load of casualty and out-patients in Victoria. The social work must be carried out by one trained social worker and 2 aides. I can assure honourable members that, no matter how hard this staff works or how dedicated these people are, those performing social work at this hospital have not a hope of handling the problems that exist. These problems are part of the disease process. Unless a competent social worker is available to analyse each problem and to deal with it, the disease process is not stopped and rehabilitation is unsatisfactory. It will take us some time to make up the defects in this field. It is well that we ensure that the initiatives are taken. I support the Bill and welcome many of the proposals that are contained in it. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Dear Mr Crean 
On the evening of Tuesday, 17 September, when you introduced your Government's Budget for 1974-75 you stated that its proposals were 'designed to advance our programmes and to make Australia a fairer society'. 
To the hundreds of thousands of aged and older people in Australia for whom financial security is becoming increasingly more illusory, to whom salary and wage adjustments and indexation are not applicable, for whom inflation is aggravating the stresses and disabilities of the ageing process itself, your early Budget speech observation held some promise. 
But, however promising that observation may have appeared at the time, to any one of 1.3 million men and women over pensionable age in Australia and the more than 600,000 people who are within, say, five years of it, your subsequent announcement of the Government's proposal to impose a tax surcharge on income received by individuals from property rendered your statement of intention to make Australia ' a fairer society ' rather meaningless. 
The uneasiness and sense of insecurity suffered by aged and older people in receipt of what in these days of inflation are- for all but a very few- only modest incomes, have become aggravated by the fear that their diminishing financial resources are to be still further depleted by deliberate Government decision. 
This fear will only partially be removed if, as now reported, your Government and the Parliament decide that the proposed surcharge on taxation of income derived from the property should not be applied on taxable incomes below S5000 per annum. 
Indeed, retention of the tax on incomes above $5000 in order to secure an additional $25m only in estimated budgeted receipts of $ 15,000m would reflect, surely, a political rather than an economic decision and one leaving any claim of fairness more than suspect. 
As if to rub salt into the wounds of older people, the Budget speech suggests that the decision is justified because the income of an individual from property is 'unearned ' income. 
Perhaps in retrospect, it will be agreed that the choice of the word 'unearned' was unfortunate. It has provoked angry response and engendered deep emotional resentment. 
It has bought bewilderment, sadness and confusion to those aged and older people who, by personal and sustained effort and thrift, have sought to convert to capital their savings of a lifetime from the income they earned in salary, wages or small business operations from the earnings of small amounts invested from time to time over many years; from the investment of a profit made on the sale of a home that has become too large and difficult to manage; from the realisation of assests no longer relevant to the needs of age but useful as an additional income resource against frailty or possibly infirmity, and against the growing impoverishment of inflation. 
To the thousands of such people in Australia, the suggestion that their income in 'unearned' adds insult to injury. Each of these people in his or her own way has made a lifetime contribution of work and tax; each has 'earned', or been compelled by circumstances to accept, retirement. 
To the extent careful management of their affairs during their working lives has enabled then to provide personally for that retirement and, thereby, avoid claims for Government support, they have achieved a measure of independence that many others have not deemed it important to achieve. 
Surely, as a principle, thrift and the self discipline necessary to make if effective, should attract incentives and not be made to suffer disincentives. 
Surely it was not intended that the Budget should penalise those aged and older people, and people approaching retirement, for whom the only means of minimising the effects of inflation now and in the future, and of meeting costs occasioned by the inevitable decline of faculties and capacity for independence, lie in maximising the earning capacity of their assets. 
Surely the Budget was not intended wittingly to discriminate as between, on the one hand, those older people who have elected, or by force of circumstances were compelled, to plan, save for and manage their own source of income in retirement and, on the other those, perhaps more fortunate, older people whose conditions of employment in their working lives have provided superannuation sufficient to satisfy all the needs of their retirement. 
This discrimination will persist even if it be decided to exempt incomes up to $5000, $7000, $ 10,000, or whatever, from the surcharge. 
Annual superannuation or pension payments of these amounts are not uncommon. Increasingly, company superannuation funds and Government funds are moving towards providing for higher superannuation reflecting a percentage of salary in the later years of a career. Increasingly such funds are planning for inbuilt hedges against inflation in retirement. 
Surely it is not suggested that a market gardener, builder, doctor, pharmacist, solicitor, architect, farmer or small grocer who, by careful management and improvement of assets built up in a lifetime, and their conversion- on which a capital gains tax could be payable- to income producing property, not requiring continued personal exertion or direct involvement, and returning say $8000 annually, should pay more tax than a retired company executive or public servant, in receipt of superannuation of the same amount. 
Without seeking to take- or make- too fine a point, just when  is  income 'unearned'? On the face of it, the Budget assumes it is when derived from such property as mortagages, rents, debentures, share dividends etc. 
If this be so, by what principle has it beeen established that when the income earning assets are owned by the individual deriving the income such income is 'unearned', but when similar sons of assets are owned by the superannuation board, or fund, and income derived therefrom is paid to the superannuated member it is 'earned '. 
Incidently, will a superannuation fund be paying capital gains tax, supertax, or other tax on its business? 
In passing, it could be observed that the individual who has, by his own efforts, built up his own source of retirement income of say, $8000 per annum, when faced with a need to buy and sell assets as a means of increasing that income to meet inflation, will need to continue, even as he ages further, to manage his assets and pay the capital gains tax where appropriate. 

 His net position and the problems of management will occasion him more concern and cost than would be the case if his $8000 annually were paid from an approved superannuation fund with his superannuation adjusted from time to time to counter the effects of inflation. 
Whatever be the amount of income below which it is decided surcharge on property income will not be applicable, the tax will remain discriminating- almost punitive- in its effect. 
It may well prove to be self-defeating and counter productive if its imposition encourages individuals, as it may well do, to so order their affairs as to avoid the surcharge and at the same time look to a pension, free of means test, to counter the effects of inflation. 
If, at the same time, the source of some, at least, of the capital which Australia so badly needs, and which Australians are exhorted to contribute, should progressively diminish, no one will benefit- least of all governments, taxpayers and business. 
Perhaps, worst of all, older and aged people as a group, growing in numbers within the community and as a proportion of total population, may well be discouraged from maintaining an active and constructive role in the community. To the extent older people of ability, experience, and means, become cynically convinced that any effort expended in maintaining a level of income to match their desired level of community service input, will be subject to special and discriminatory Government penalty, they will become less disposed to share the burdens of their group and more inclined to leave the carriage thereof to others. 
Surely what remains of this unfair and selective tax should be abandoned altogether. 
The uneasiness and sense of insecurity suffered by aged and older people in receipt of what in these days of inflation are- for all but a very few- only modest incomes, have become aggravated by the fear that their diminishing financial resources are to be still further depleted by deliberate Government decision . . . as if to rub salt into the wounds of older people, the Budget speech suggests that the decision is justified because the income of an individual from property is 'unearned ' income. 
Perhaps in retrospect, it will be agreed that the choice of the word 'unearned' was unfortunate. It has provoked angry response and engendered deep emotional resentment. It has brought bewilderment, sadness and confusion to those aged and older people who, by personal and sustained effort and thrift, have sought to convert to capital their savings of a lifetime from the income they earned in salary, wages or small business operations .... 
The  President  of that Council which represents more than 900 individual organisations throughout the Australian community goes on, towards the end of the letter, as honourable members will see from its text in Hansard, to call not for an amelioration of the proposal but for its complete rejection by the present Labor administration, there is no justification for the tax on economic grounds. It will have the inevitable effect of raising rents as property owners seek compensation through increased revenues. The tax will be a further element in the price pushing process in the Australian community. This is a serious consequence in a period of cost inflation, but the tax has equally serious implications for the investment factor. The surcharge will undermine the community's propensity to save and, equally, to invest. It is, in fact, a tax directed against thrift, savings and incentive. The tax goes to the very basis of Australian investment resources- the savings banks. The surcharge will therefore apply to interest earned on Australia 's 1 8 million savings bank accounts in spite of the fact that investors are receiving only 3% per cent interest from their savings. 
The surcharge will, in the same way, apply to well over 100,000 small investors in many companies. For the purposes of my argument and for the edification of Government supporters I instance Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd. Of its shares 72 per cent are held by small investors with holdings of between one and 500 shares. When Ministers use BHP as a scapegoat for Australian capitalism they ignore completely the fact that small shareholders own almost three-quarters of that Company with investments of less than $2000 each. The imposition of a super tax across the whole structure of Australian investment will reduce economic growth and create a further barrier to capital mobilisation. I might say in passing that in Australia today there is already a serious problem in the area of capital mobilisation in the private sector. Under this Government's policies real investment in manufacturing industry has fallen below the level established in  1 964-65. The imposition of a super tax on investment returns will therefore exacerbate an already critical investment decline. In short, the new tax will add to cost inflation and further depress investments. 
The Opposition is not prepared to endorse any type of face saving exercise which we understand is now being conducted by the Labor Caucus. Caucus, of course, has discovered the hard political realities of the new tax. Apparently Caucus has decided to exempt all those taxpayers earning less than $5,000 per annum. This is a case of too little too late. The taxation structure of this country ought not be and cannot be determined by what Caucus may regard as the gut reaction. To draw an arbitrary line of $5,000 is totally inadequate when one sees the implication of the tax. An arbitrary exemption of this type meets none of the economic objections to which I have adverted and still includes Australian wage earners earning $1,500 less than the average. The Opposition Parties believe that the surcharge should be abandoned without qualification on grounds of equity and in terms of the economic position that I have put down. 
This is not an area for compromise and fencemending operations on the part of the Government. The very principle that so-called personal exertion income should be treated differently is, we believe, repugnant. The whole concept of such a tax is at variance with the findings of international taxation inquiries. Government members may not be aware that the Canadian royal commission on taxation- the Carter Commissionstated quite clearly that every increase in economic power, no matter what its source, should be treated the same for tax purposes. 
This new surcharge has been condemned by all sections of the Australian community. The Press has been very quick to highlight the community reaction. I refer first of all to the editorial in the 'Australian' on 18 September which said: 
The extra tax on unearned income was certainly a piece of peripheral cosmetics introduced into the Budget for union consumption and nothing else. It is a needless piece of petty faction-serving which placates left-wing ideology at the expense of imposing a penalty on thrift and a burden on many people who will least be able to afford it. Just at a time when inflation is eating away the product of investment, people who have retired on their savings will face increased demands from the tax system. 
The 'Australian Financial Review', on 17 September, in an editorial appropriately entitled 'Unearned income tax; poor politics, lousy economics ' had this to say: 
Beyond the very evident political inspiration of the proposed tax on unearned income, it is perhaps more valid for a newspaper anxious to see economic rationality have primacy in policy-making to question whether a tax that will have the ultimate effect of discouraging savings, and therefore investment, has any place in Australian Government. 
The majority of the Australian Press, the Australian public and the Opposition Parties want this tax subject to total rejection and not some simple face-saving remedy of the type that we understand is currently before the Labor Party Caucus. We call upon this Government to abandon that tax forthwith, to reject the tax completely and not to be content with a cosmetic, face-saving, half-way house qualification. When the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  speaks in this debate, it will be interesting to know what his personal views are. If we can hear the personal views of the Prime Minister designate,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, in this House today, let the Acting Treasurer now be man enough to tell us what his personal view is, to indicate to the Australian public what is happening in the Caucus and to be prepared in a statesmanlike way to reject the tax and to take it back to the Cabinet that conceived it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. The Minister will recall that in April of last year, in answering a question from myself regarding the possible hazards of toxic gas emissions from burning aircraft furnishings resulting from fires after crashes he advised the House that the matter had been referred to his Department for report. Will the Minister advise what action has been taken and whether such a report has been received? 
-When listening to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  and Opposition spokesmen who preceded him, I reflected on the relative joys of my 1 1 years in Opposition at State and Federal levels. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I have no desire to return to those years. During those years Budget time was a time when it was easy to attack and to criticise. But we in Opposition gave opposition with responsibility. Our efforts were designed to provide constructive suggestions. I recall the very vital role that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who is now the Minister for the Capital Territory, played when in Opposition and the suggestions that he made on education and in many other fields that have now come to reality. I only wish that the members of the present Opposition would show the same attitude of responsibility. The Minister for the Capital Territory did well in describing the people of his electorate of Wills, which is an electorate that adjoins my electorate and that has much in common with my electorate. 
The honourable member for Parramatta asked which supporters of the Government had promulgated the Budget in their electorates. I can answer that question in my case. I live in my electorate, I have an office in my electorate and, when my parliamentary duties allow me to do so, I work in it and talk to people in it about the Budget and other measures the Government is implementing. I regret that the honourable member for Parramatta cannot understand the Budget setting in the terms in which it has been put, but that is the very reason why he and his colleagues are sitting on the other side of the House. I believe that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is to be congratulated on the Budget he has presented. It is one that was prepared and brought to the Parliament at a time of some disadvantage and stress. Even the most biased member of the Opposition would agree that the circumstances of the double dissolution and the subsequent delay did cause much strain. Also, as the Treasurer himself said and as was referred to by the honourable member for Parramatta: 
Furthermore, it has been framed within the context of an economy subjected to exceptional strains. We share with all our major trading partners problems of economic management unparalleled in modern times. 
I have waited for some of the Opposition Jeremiahs who have been so loud in their prophecies of doom to touch on this aspect of international pressures. I have waited for them to indicate whether they believe there is any relevancy in a comparison of the world situation and the Australian position. Last night I heard the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  start to trace some of the changes in Western society. When he began to talk about changes in Western society in recent years I though that we were at last going to have a look at the overall economic position. Also, after some mention of Keynes and his philosophy- I think he probably found out about that only in the last couple of weeks- he petered out. While not professing to have a high degree of economic expertise, I have examined some of the current reporting of inflation in major overseas countries. It has become clear to me that much of the Western world has become increasingly frightened of the prospect of a major economic calamity rivalling that of the 1930s. It is certain that there must be some sort of international effort as well as national effort to solve the problems of inflation. In a country in which unemployment, although used by the present Opposition when in government, particularly in 1971, is rejected as an instrument of economic control, it is depressing to read a caution from the International Monetary Fund in the last week or so that the world's industrial countries will have to live with higher unemployment and slower economic growth for a long time if they are to beat inflation. 
-The present Government rejects that view and seeks other solutions. Does the honourable member for Curtin, who interjected a moment ago with regard to other factors, believe that the Australian situation is completely divorced from the world situation? 
-Almost! Now we know what economic expertise to expect from the Opposition. 
-I will be delighted to direct my remarks through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  We have with us an honourable member who is saying that Australia has been able to divorce itself from the world economic situation. I will not dwell on that because I think some of the things I will say later will fit in with this matter of what is the Opposition's philosophy. In Australia we do have some advantages. We have high productivity, vast natural resources and a great capacity to expand. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and his myrmidons loudly proclaim that they have all the nostrums and cures for inflation, but they have not offered even one specific and assessable technique of any sort to control it. I was reminded of them when I read the following extract in an article in the magazine 'Newsweek' of 30 September at page 32: 
But even with occasional bright spots, the truth is that the economies of the US in particular and most of the countries of the Western world in general are seriously ill- and perhaps the most disturbing thing about it is that nobody has any really fresh or proven ideas on how to make them well again. While plain citizens could once hope that some combination of economic wizardry would pull them through, that no longer holds true- and the result is a pervasive feeling of helpfulness both at home and abroad. For in truth, economists have lost a great deal of faith in themselves and in the nostrums they used to prescribe. 'The long-standing claim of economists that they knew how to control inflation is an empty pretence', said Nobel Prize winning Harvard economist Wassily Leontief recently. 
What an opportunity for the Leader of the Opposition and his team to make a world reputation! After all, Australia can do without them and those other countries apparently need thensolutions. I believe that the quotation I have just made is far too pessimistic for the position in which we find ourselves. Later on the article postulates 3 principal alternatives that are available to the industrial nations. The first of those- I suggest the most desirable- is for both the supplier and the consumer nations to get together and work out a new set of equitable rules for conducting the world 's business, guaranteeing fair prices for an unrestricted flow of both raw materials and finished goods and re-structuring the outdated international monetary system. The article suggests that we need a new Bretton Woods Agreement. The article goes on to discuss that in some detail. I must admit that it does offer second and third alternatives. The second is a growth of great nationalism. The third is a  Dr Strangelove  position which postulates armed action and invasion. But the article does show that we cannot ignore the international situation. 
I trust that the present International Monetary Fund discussions may be leading to such an international co-operation as is suggested in the first postulant. One has only to look at rising inflation in our major trading partners to realise the urgency of the situation. Also there arises the possibility of the economy of a small nation like ours being manipulated by external forces. The Government has shown a realisation of that  with  its efforts to buy back the farm and to encourage investment in Australia without surrendering control. I have tried to speak on these matters without invoking hysteria. Multi-national corporations do have a far reaching influence. They do have so much economic muscle that they can, in pursuing their own objectives, gravely affect small industrial nations or poorly developed nations. It is not unknown for major powers to manipulate smaller countries by economic and political means. I will not dwell any further on that other than to invite honourable members to consider the present public soul searching in the United States of America regarding the Central Intelligence Agency. This is not something that I am raising as a bogey; it is something that the Americans themselves are questioning in Congress and through the media. The idea that their economic muscle has been used to effect political and economic changes such as occurred with the Allende regime in Chile is anathema to their proclaimed moral sense. But it occurred and is admitted to have occurred. I have no doubt that other major powers may use similar techniques. Without vigilance we are a vulnerable nation. 
Australia's experience, I am sure, parallels those of our group of nations. In these countries it is accepted that the seeds of the present inflation rate were sown in the early 1 960s and it is the measures adopted then which have now supplied the harvest of inflation that we are reaping. This applies no less in Australia than it does, admittedly, in those other countries. 
According to some commentators the general cessation of hostilities in Vietnam has played a part. That dreadful tragedy has assisted in this present world situation. The general laissez-faire attitudes that were adopted in the 1960s stretched the economy of the country beyond all bounds. Much investment, speculation and company structure which was said to involve risk appeared 'no risk' because of governmental attitudes. Even then there were the elements of collapse in these undertakings. Who can forget such fiascos as Reid Murray, Testro, Factors, Tasmanex and so on? Do failures such as those of Mainline Corporation Ltd and Cambridge Credit Corporation really surprise us so much now? Too much free-wheeling entrepreneurial activity, high interest rates and large rake-offs assured their ultimate downfall. The Opposition cannot be a figurative Pontius Pilate and wash its hands of responsibility when a major portion of the trouble on the Australian scene rests with it. I believe that this Government has tried to create a climate on the national scene for all groups which have a part to play to confer and co-operate. I believe it has also taken international steps for co-operation. 
The Treasurer in his Budget Speech commented that the Government was committed to a program of social reform and, despite its dedication to the fight against inflation, felt responsible to continue this program. I gather that the Opposition agrees with a great number of aspects in this program. In some Budget areas honourable members opposite seem to indicate to the public Press that they believe there should be increased expenditure. I cite the honourable member for Wannon who said: 
But proposals that might be good individually, when taken in the mass, can mean and spell out utter financial irresponsibility and can be utterly wrong and, for the nation as a whole, quite evil. 
Those are fine words indeed but backed by nothing of substance. What chunks of the mass that he refers to would he and his colleagues carve off to remove the evil and leave only the good? I believe that he is describing some sort of curate's egg. If this is the genuine Opposition philosophy let honourable members opposite back it up with some meaning. It is no good the honourable member for Parramatta saying that they may responsibly criticise without responsibly being constructive. 
I welcome the programs of social reform that are developing. On previous occasions in this House I have deplored what I saw as the development of certain 'under classes' in the community. Under classes have developed in education. If the demand for increased productivity is important, so is education for the technology which is so essential to it. This Government's initiatives in education are now showing real effect. It was strange to hear the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  who is such a devoted disciple of the Premier of Queensland, complaining about the lack of government schools in country areas in that State. Surely what he was complaining of was a complete lack of activity in that area by the Queensland Country Party- his own Party- for so many years. 
I welcome the initiatives in the health field. I have on several occasions in this House spoken on the question of home rental dialysis units for sufferers from chronic kidney disease. I have been concerned with a voluntary organisation supplying such units to sufferers. I know that the organisation made representations to the Liberal Government. I know that it received the old heave-ho and no help at all. Strangely, conservative State governments were far more responsive to this sort of matter than the Federal Government. There was a similar situation with the supply of stoma appliances. I was talking to the  President  of the Victorian Stoma Patients Association only the other night. In the past people who have this unfortunate disability had to spend many hundreds of dollars on these appliances. They received no help from the previous Government, They approached the present Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  before the double dissolution. As he said, they thought they were forgotten and then found that they received assistance. I welcome the community health program because it operates on a basis of need. One of the municipalities in my electorate has 100,000 inhabitants with only 22 doctors to service them. Many of these people are at a low economic level. The community health centre program there will provide hope for them, not only in individual general practitioner care but also in providing an integrated health service for a community that has need of the services and also an economic need. 
I welcome the initiatives that are to be taken in compensation and rehabilitation. The first mention of these areas is made in the Budget. A general outline is given. Further investigation will go on. I believe that the Budget has shown some sound lines. It has shown a setting for the future. It has shown a devotion to a social program. I believe that if the Opposition is to have any credibility at all it must answer some of the questions that are asked of it as to what it sees as the solutions to the problems, whether it can deny that the position of our major trading partners in many instances is far worse and whether it can deny that their situation affects our economy. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197410175_28_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410175_28_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410175_28_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410175_28_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410175_28_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410175_28_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410175_29_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410175_29_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410175_29_3.jpg"></graphic>

I again seek to incorporate a small table. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197410175_29_5.jpg"></graphic>

Our initial assistance program will enable the States to eliminate much of the ancient rolling stock which is still being used as part of our urban transport systems. For example, over 550 carriages in Sydney's urban passenger rail system are at least 45 years old and more than 500 of the Melbourne carriages are over 45 years old with some having been constructed in the last century. Many urban passenger buses are over 20 years old and half of Melbourne 's tram fleet is over 40 years old. In this way we hope to achieve some immediate improvement in the quality of public transport. In the longer term we will be looking more to an overall system approach which integrates the various transport modes, with each performing the function to which it is best suited. Included in the provisions for this year are the first allocations for the cities of Newcastle, Wollongong and Geelong. In announcing the Urban Public Transport Assistance Program I indicated that, based on comprehensive studies of their transport needs, assistance would be extended to cities with populations over 100,000 and to the corridors linking these cities to State capitals. Appropriate studies are in progress and I expect that major projects for these areas will be included in the future assistance programs. However, in the meantime there are minor improvement projects which can be undertaken independent of such studies and $1.0 million has been provided for this purpose in 1974-75. 
When the Treasurer announced the first ever Australian Government contribution to urban public transport in his 1 973 Budget Speech it was expected that the States would spend $46.64 million during 1973-74, attracting Australian 
Government assistance of $31.09 million. However, the Australian Government was not able to appropriate these funds in that year. And the States have the honourable gentlemen opposite to blame for that situation. As the States respect this Government as one which will honour its promises some $18.46 million was spent on the program during 1973-74. This promise was honoured when I re-introduced the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill into this House on 1 1 July. It is now being enacted. 
We expect to make payments to the States totalling $67.49 million during 1974-75. This amount is made up of $12.32 million being reimbursement of moneys expended by the States in 1973-74, $26.98 million being the 1974-75 expenditure on projects approved for commencement last year, $27.85 million for projects approved to commence in 1974-75 and $0.34 million for planning and research projects undertaken in 1973-74. I am conscious of the requirement for the States to meet their contribution and this factor has been taken into account in formulating the extent of our assistance. I have been assured that the States are in a position to match our planned allocations in 1974-75. As I mentioned, very limited progress was made under the scheme in 1973-74 because of delays in the provision of Australian Government funds. However, I would like to comment on the benefits of one project which has been implemented. The project to which I refer is the Adelaide Terrace bus way in Perth. It involved the construction of a segregated road way for the exclusive use of buses on the approaches to the Causeway round-a-bout at the eastern end of Adelaide Terrace. Cost of this project was not high at less than $20,000, yet during the p.m. peak period buses are taking up to 8 minutes less to cover this small section of their journey as compared with those vehicles that use the Adelaide Terrace roadway. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I would now like to make a few comments on projects included in the 1974-75 assistance program. As I said earlier, our initial program reflected an emphasis on new rolling stock. Our projects this year cover much more of the urban transport system. Workshop facilities have been included in the program as recognition that maintenance of systems is vital to their efficiency. Improvements to these facilities also take account of the human element of the systems by including appropriate amenities for employees. We of this Government do not believe that we could provide massive funds for improvements to the standard of service offered to the travelling public whilst at the same time continuing to have the people who operate these systems work under conditions that resemble nothing so much as a Dickensian workhouse. Much has been said about the attitude of the people who operate public transport. Is it any wonder that morale is so low when conditions are so primitive? By supporting improvements to workshops and staff amenities the Australian Government believes that a significant step forward will be made in providing greater job satisfaction for our public transport employees. 
Over recent times I have received numerous representations concerning the problems being experienced by the private operators of urban public transport services. I am sympathetic to their problems and have noted the action taken by the Victorian Government to provide assistance to the private operators in Melbourne. I do not believe that I could justify to my colleagues and to the Australian public that the Australian Government should take a similar initiative at this stage. Instead I propose to have a comprehensive investigation undertaken of the private operators ' industry. At the present time I am considering the terms of reference for this investigation and the Australian Government's policy to this industry will be determined following the completion of this study. 
However, in the case of some private operators events have overtaken the Australian Government's approach. The Manly ferry and hydrofoil services were to be closed by the Brambles organisation and in Adelaide the majority of the private bus operators threatened to withdraw their services unless the State Government assumed responsibility for their services. Some 22 million passenger journeys were performed annually by these services. Rather than have these services disappear from the total urban transport system the respective States decided they must act urgently to acquire these services. To reduce the financial burden placed on the States by these rescue operations, the Australian Government has approved assistance to New South Wales and South Australia to defray the expense incurred in acquiring these services. I would add that in the South Australian case it was essential for the State Government to act rapidly to prevent the sale of buses interstate. 
I would now like to comment on a few issues that have attracted a good deal of public attention in recent time. I have often condemned increases in public transport fares and I do so again today. I had hoped that with the financial aid under the Urban Public Transport Agreement the States would have accepted the logic of keeping fares at a reasonable price. But no, we still find the Premier of New South Wales incorporating quite unjustifiable increases in public transport fares in his Budget because he considers that the Australian Government is not providing sufficient assistance. I cannot agree. It is a fact that to increase public transport fares is to cause significant losses in patronage. I must applaud the actions of the Victorian Premier to keep fares as low as possible. It is a tragedy that this approach is not more widely adopted by the States. 
Considerable comment has been made on the plans for the reintroduction of trams to central Sydney. I endorse the concept of giving the centre of the city back to the people but I am not yet persuaded that the tram is the optimum vehicle to provide this service. My Department is examining the report prepared by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board for the New South Wales Government on this proposal. The Australian Government's examination will also cover alternative means of providing this service. It may be worth while investigating whether electric buses or some similar vehicle should be used. 
New South Wales has come under fire recently regarding ferry services on Sydney Harbour. I hold the view that our natural highways should be utilised to the maximum extent practicable and would not therefore wish to see Sydney's ferry services wither away as has happened to so many public transport services. Honourable members will observe that assistance has been approved to enable the New South Wales Government to acquire the 4 hydrofoil and 3 conventional ferries which provided the Manly services. The future of one of the conventional ferries, the 'South Steyne', which has been damaged by fire, is uncertain and there seems to be a prima facie case for concern at the level of services provided to Manly. I am therefore arranging for officials of my Department to discuss the overall question of a future strategy for ferry operations on Sydney Harbour with New South Wales officials. Subsequent discussions might eventually extend beyond the immediate question of public transport to that of freight movements. 
This Government is not prepared to rely solely on the urban public transport assistance scheme to upgrade public transport in our major cities. Complementary to the urban public transport assistance scheme, the Government has initiated numerous activities which will all have a direct impact on the urban transport systems of our major cities. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has offered to construct, at no cost to New South Wales, a distinct railway system using the Australia urban passenger train- AUPT- based on Parramatta and radiating to Hoxton Park, Castle Hill and through Carlingford to Epping. Agreement has not yet been reached but in anticipation of New South Wales accepting our offer $3.5m has been provided in the Budget. On 13 September the Prime Minister wrote to the Premier of Victoria inviting him to consider the potential for a similar initiative in Melbourne. 
The Australian urban passenger train is being developed so that Australians can have the best public transport vehicles possible. The Government has been concerned that the trains being acquired in recent times ale not a great advance, technically, or in terms of passenger comfort, on those they are replacing. For this reason the Government, in co-operation with the States, has set up a design team which is developing the Australian urban passenger train, which, with the modifications, will be able to run on all State urban systems. We intend that the new train will incorporate the best in proven rail technology. For the traveller this simply means high standards of comfort, safety and reliability and an attractive alternative to the automobile. 
Good progress is being achieved with the AUPT. Stage 1, a preliminary study on the possibilities of the AUPT, has been successfully completed and stage II, the development of specifications for the train, has commenced. I expect to have a prototype on the rails in 1 976. A mock-up of the train to gauge commuter reaction has met with most gratifying success. Some 80,000 persons visited the exhibit in Adelaide and 50,000 in Perth. In Melbourne each day about 10,000 people are inspecting the model on display near Swanston Street railway station. The purpose of exhibiting the display car in the various capital cities is to show people the different carriage layouts so that a market survey can be made to assess passenger preferences. We want the people to say what type of seating they want; whether or not they prefer air conditioning or natural ventilation; whether they want more seats per train or more standing room. Public reactions will be taken into account in finalising designs. I have been gratified and encouraged by the reaction of the vast majority of visitors to date. This program also has achieved another first in that train drivers and guards are being involved, through their unions, in the design of those compartments of the vehicle in which they must operate. 
At the request of the Australian Transport Advisory Council my Department is examining the feasibility of developing a standard urban passenger bus. A basic problem is the differing legislation and regulations which apply to bus construction and operation in each of the States. With a view to developing a standard specification I hope to arrange for a conference of government and private operators and unions to be held to attempt to rationalise the requirements of each jurisdiction. The activities I have listed indicate the sincerity of this Government's determination to contribute to the quality of life in our major urban centres by improving the quality, capacity, efficiency and frequency of public transport services. We are not content merely to assist the States with finances which are desperately needed but where necessary we are also prepared to undertake projects ourselves which have the potential to vastly improve urban transport systems. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
I must admit to being rather amazed at the excitement that was shown by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  with regard to the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  But, of course, the honourable member completely overlooked the fact that if this amendment were carried it would completely delay this legislation and the payment of the benefits that will result from it. Members of the Opposition also know that other anomalies remain to be dealt with. This is not the only anomaly. They also know that this Government and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  have corrected more anomalies in the social service field and have done more to give real effect to our social service requirements in 2 years than the previous governments did in 23 years. I think that the Opposition is engaging in a hypocritical and cynical exercise. It knows that the amendment if accepted would delay the Bill. Members of the Opposition have picked out one group of people in order, like ghouls, to prey on sympathy. 
At times when I approach a debate on Bills such as the legislation before us I regret that so many divisions in the social welfare field are involved. In many cases these divisions are not inter-related. I happen to represent an electorate which contains a high percentage of aged persons and a high percentage of widows and deserted wives. This is particularly the case in the Preston and Heidelberg areas. This is because of the nature of the housing and accommodation that has been provided there. I am very grateful for the measures that have been introduced to help the people in that area. I am grateful for the branch of the Department of Social Security that has been established at the Northlands centre and the way in which that branch is conducted by  Mr Carlton  and his staff who attend to the problems of the people in my area in a prompt manner. It may be felt that the Government is just updating some of the variety of provisions which are contained in the Bill. But of course it would be quite obvious that we are broadening the scope of social security in this legislation. 
There are only a couple of matters to which I want to refer. For example, the rental allowance is to be raised by $1 to $5 a week. I was a member of the Victorian State Parliament for a number of years. During that time I remember that even when the previous Government was in power every time an increase was made in the rate of pension or in the level of allowances such as are contained in this legislation, up went the means test for tenants, including pensioners, widows and deserted wives, who were living in Housing Commission homes, and up went the rents. This resulted in the great majority of the new advantages that had been given being reduced. I only trust that in this instance the States, particularly Victoria, will not take the same action again. I think it should be realised that the States receive finance on very favourable terms, even at the moment, for housing of this kind. One of the worst features of this action is that the Australian Government gets the blame for what the States do. For example, fringe benefits in the transport field are administered by the States. We have the example of an old lady who, with the last pension increase, received a pension of $57.50 and lost her transport entitlement that was provided by the State Government. I shall cite an example. An elderly lady living alone lost this fringe benefit. She travelled quite a bit to see her doctor and her relatives. She wrote to her local Federal member for advice. The letter she got back dated 12 August this year, after the opening paragraph, reads: 
My secretary explained the problems that you are facing and the fact that you were very upset and disillusioned with life at the moment. I know it is easy when one has youth and good health on one's side to say that everything is o.k. I personally am extremely distressed at the plight of our senior citizens and I do not agree at all with the government's decision to stop the pension entitlements for public transport. 
I am constantly investigating all aspects of pensioner services in the community and whilst this may be little consolation to you, I would like you to know that you are not forgotten. 
Keep your chin up, 
Yours sincerely, DON CHIPP 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  failed to point out in his letter that it is a State Government action that takes away this sort of privilege from the pensioner. I do not wonder that he advised the House earlier in the evening to consider the way ahead and said that we must not look at the past. I have no doubt he does not want us to look at the past, out of the shame he feels for the sorts of things that were done then. The lack of effort at that stage has meant the massive increase in expenditure we see now in social services, education and health and so on. 
Other honourable members have spoken about the rent allowance and the desirability of those who own their own home receiving assistance, similar to that afforded by the supplementary rent allowance, in the payment of rates, whether they be municipal rates or rates charged by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, and so on. I have some sympathy with this attitude. I fear of course that if any action were taken, the State governments would take the advantage away from the recipients of any such benefit. Perhaps if the members of the Opposition who spoke about the desirability of such a step had given some support to the referendum proposals for a closer relationship between the Australian Government and local government bodies, more could have been achieved. Certainly State governments, particularly the Victorian Government, have made offers, but have never delivered. The same finger can be pointed, as it was pointed by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  at the situation with regard to the double orphan pension. 
I, like other members, welcome the advance made with the allowance for handicapped children. I have had in both my professions, as a medical practitioner and as a politician, a great deal of experience with handicapped children and their parents. I note with interest the proposed classification of recipients of this allowance. I think that the proposed classification is suitable as an initial one. I have no doubt, however, that a fair amount of modification will have to be made because if this allowance is to fulfil its purpose of keeping handicapped children at home in the care of their parents, who must have the full capability of giving the proper care, not only the children, but also the families of the children will have to be assisted. I think the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  referred to some of the strains that occur in the families of handicapped children. Somewhere along the line we will have to try to assess not only the handicap of the child- this is the starting point- but also the disability of the family, the alteration that a handicapped child makes to their way of life and the conduct of their household, and the effect it has not only on the mother and the father but also on the other children in the family. It is a most complex position indeed. 
I welcome the start that has been made and I welcome the way in which it has been made. I know that with the attitude to social security of this Government, refinements will be made to take into consideration all these other factors. We can see that there may be a blurring of handicap, either physically or mentally. A child could have a learning defect which, if not detected early, creates a psychological or even psychiatric or behaviour problem requiring not only remedial education, but also remedial treatment in specialist clinics. This may mean virtually 2 households. I have a letter from a lady in Sydney who is in a situation of this nature. She has a boy of 15 years with a learning difficulty which was not diagnosed and who developed phychological and psychiatric problems. The boy had to be brought from the country to go to a special school and also to a treatment clinic. I know that there are other areas for help for this boy but his problem also comes into the area we are discussing. 
There is a blurring between handicap for social security purposes, handicap for educational and remedial purposes, and handicap for rehabilitation purposes. This means we must have a constant search. The Minister for Social Security indicated in his second reading speech that we should consider the new allowance in the context of a broad program of education, training and general welfare for handicapped children. The honourable member for Denison mentioned that the parents of the children who attended day centres would not be disqualified from receiving the allowance. There is also a strong argument for the provision of residential centres to be occupied for limited periods of time. If the family is to be able to maintain the handicapped child at home, there also has to be the faculty for them to have a break for a holiday, of no matter how short a duration. These are the matters that will have to be looked into. 
It is impossible in the time available to me to go through all these factors. I see this measure as a promising start; I trust that it continues and that some of the factors I have mentioned will be investigated. I hope the House will pass this Bill in its present state so that the benefits contained in it and described in the Minister's second reading speech can be paid. 
-I call the honourable member for Wentworth. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation I bring up the report of the Committee on the conservation of endangered species on Christmas Island, together with extracts from the minutes of the proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I listened with interest to the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  Really, if he is sincere in his attitude to the speeches of the honourable members for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  I think he will shortly receive an invitation to contribute to that well known adolescent magazine 'Mad' as a zany humorist because that is what he is.  His  arguments and complaints were largely concerned with his own State administration. When he talked about the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  he was talking about the State administration in New South Wales. I am sorry, but like the honourable member for Moreton - 
Listen little boy; just be quiet. You have a lot to learn. I conclude that the honourable member must have been found in a hollow tree, hatched and brought here as one of the well known pieces of bird life. Really, he has to learn that there are several levels of government that have different responsibilities. One of these days he will and he may, if he survives the next election, be able to make a useful contribution. 
-If the honourable member likes to sit and listen a bit he will learn many useful lessons. The honourable members for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  and Casey  (Mr Mathews)  spoke very well on matters relating to the expenditure on and quality of education. I think honourable members opposite ought to take a look at the reasons why the overwhelming number of people involved in education supported the Australian Labor Party in the 1972 and 1974 elections and continue to support it. They support the Labor Party because after 23 years of Liberal rule the Labor Party said that there are problems in education proper for an Australian Government to investigate. When the Labor Party came to power in 1972 it set about identifying those problems and has carried on from there. May I remind honourable members of what was done by Professor Karmel and the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission and what is being done now by the Schools Commission with  Dr McKinnon  as  chairman.  May I remind honourable members of the identification of problems in the technical field by the Kangan Committee on Technical and Further Education. May I remind honourable members of the identification of problems that exist in the pre-school and child care sphere. May I remind honourable members of the identification of problems in migrant education. 
Let me say to the members of the Opposition that they failed to attract attention in education because they failed to admit that there were problems. They failed to identify those problems. Now they criticise the action being taken to solve those problems. The identification of the problems has given indications for measuring need, on which we base our educational program. It has also given possible solutions. It has not only operated in the normal educational stream but has also gone into the field of special defects and special abilities such as the honourable member for Darling Downs talked about. The possibilities exist for these matters to be dealt with. The commissions provide on-going examination in these fields. This examination involves many people in these problems. The State governments are involved. Representatives of schools other than government schools are involved in this problem-solving process. We have a new look at the control of local schools because the very involvement of these groups I have mentioned has brought State governments to realise that there should be continued community involvement. I would like to give much more time to that aspect. It involves not only expenditure, and not only quality, it involves identification of what was needed after so many years and the action that has been taken in such a short period of time. 
The innovation program allows experimentation. Two grants have been made to schools in my electorate. One was made to a technical school in an area of some social deprivation. The grant has been given for the teaching of social biology. I think that 'adolescent psychology' might have been a better term for it. The interaction of that community and the satisfying of the need for the students to understand their development and their relationships to one another will be a worthwhile achievement. St Gabriel's School, one of the local parish schools in my electorate, also received a grant. Almost 50 per cent of the students at the school are migrants, mostly of Italian origin. A project is to be undertaken to teach the children not only in English but in their native language to try to integrate the ethnic groups by involving not only the students but also the parents. These are the sorts of innovations that will be of real value to education in the future. These are the sorts of things that the present Minister for Education and the Government have encouraged. I would like to comment also on the Minister's wide interest in education. He made recent public statements on his concern about the education of Aboriginal children in the Kimberleys. 
I am referring to the Minister for Education. He pointed out that studies had shown that there were problems with Aboriginal children at school because of possible irreparable brain damage before birth and that it was useless confining the action on this problem just to education authorities. He said that one had to go far beyond that and that in the Kimberleys there was a tremendous lack of information. This prevented the establishment of a proper policy for the whole region. He pointed out that this occurred in other areas as well. I think he has been wise in identifying this problem. I think he has already given a lead that this is not a matter for the futility of State-Federal recriminations or putting the blame on anyone else but that there is a responsibility to look at these preceding conditions. 
I mention the question of malnutrition and disease affecting the brain capacity of the child before birth because malnutrition does not occur only in areas such as the Kimberleys. The abandoning of the free milk scheme did not affect a large number of school children nutritionally, but there were areas where to many children the free milk provided their breakfast for the day and where their educational performance was affected by the abandonment of the scheme. It is not just an educational matter; it is a health matter. At the Preston North East State School in my electorate a large number of the children come from socio-economically depressed families. I think that in our education programs we will have to look at some schemes that will not only identify schools as deprived schools that need educational facilities, but will also identify them as deprived schools that need help in other ways. Just last week a report from the Preston North East State School stated that of the 900 children in the school 400 suffered from head lice. I think this indicates a problem that is more than an educational problem. It is a problem which with our present mechanism we ought to be able to identify, and, with a happy marriage of the educational field and the health field, solve. 
-In discussing the estimates for the Department of the Environment and Conservation I feel rather inhibited by my chairmanship on the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I feel hesitant about moving in to controversial areas because they often involve matters which have landed on the plate of that Committee. Therefore I cannot say too much about the recycling propositions raised by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt). 
I congratulate the honourable member for his thoughtful contribution to the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Environment and Conservation. I have a great deal of sympathy with him in relation to a number of the matters that he has raised as far as the activities of the Department are concerned.  His  attitude is a refreshing change from that of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who I believe has, unfortunately, unfairly criticised the activities of the Department. The criticisms which have been made of the activities of the Department have shown a lack of appreciation of its present role, which involves so many departments, and its function in guiding and serving those departments. As I have said, it is a diverse involvement which covers a number of the matters listed by the honourable member for Gwydir. Because of that diversity, these matters are not presented in a way in which the Parliament can discuss them comprehensively and can have the opportunity to take an overall look at the work of the Department. 
I have welcomed the establishment of the Department as a separate entity instead of being, as it once was, part of a collection of bodies. There is a developing realisation throughout the world that governments and parliaments must play an active part in the field of the environment and conservation. So it is regrettable that the local content of the work the Department does cannot be given an overall look. Another thing which is hidden from the Parliament is the international role that the Department plays for the Australian Government. One sees in the appropriations for the Department mention made of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources and the contribution to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation 's Convention for the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage. They are a couple of examples. 
Really, this Parliament should be able to discuss the role that officers of the Department are playing in the United Nations environmental program, where Australia stands with regard to the Earthwatch program and what Australia is doing about the exposition on human habitat; yet, because of the very nature of the way in which things have been presented, this Committee does not have the opportunity to examine those programs. They are very worthwhile ones because they involve the exchange of information from many countries. This Parliament has had representatives at the 3 interparliamentary conferences on the environment over the last 4 years; yet we have no mechanism by which the Parliament can follow through the sorts of matters that are raised there. I have no doubt that the Department of the Environment and Conservation does so, but what it does is not brought forward so that honourable members can examine what has happened. 
It has become trendy amongst governments throughout the world to talk about environmental impact statements. The other day the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  the honourable member for Gwydir and I heard a gentleman who is very skilled in the field express his concern about the use of the word 'impact' in the term 'environmental impact statements' because it has some connotation of force, confrontation, the adversary principle in examination and so on. Arising out of that type of impact statement, I want to raise the query of whether the Department should not be interesting itself in another area of investigation. For example, at the Third International Parliamentary Conference in 1971, with regard to action to be taken by governments, that Conference 56 12recommended in the following terms: 
The completion of an international agreement (with provision Tor the standardisation or testing procedures) requiring each nation (a) to test specified products and processes particularly those containing  non-degradable,  nonrecyclable or toxic components, for their potential effects on the environment and (b) to publish the results of these tests before the products are introduced on the market. 
Three years later, inquiry found that the following actions had resulted: 
In many countries tests or products are carried out. The Federal Republic of Germany is establishing within  UMPLIS  -  which is the environment planning information system:  a special data bank on such information. In the federal republic the new emission law establishes for the first time such obligations on producers concerning the production process. A European convention restricting the use of nondegradable detergents is now in force. 
The following comment was made on Australia 's actions on this matter 
Australia participates actively in the work of WHO, ISO and the CODEX Alimentarius commission. 
Arising out of this year's conference, with regard to international agreements in this respect, the summary was: 
No such comprehensive international agreement has been concluded and the necessity for one remains. As a first step Parliaments may wish to debate the desirability of the testing of certain products and processes before such products are put on the market. If such are found to be environmentally unsound or harmful to health such information might be attached to the product in much the same way as the smoking warning. Interested organisations with the support of parliamentarians may hold public hearings on selected products. A product's environmental effect (in itself or through the process required to produce it) might be included in consumer guides. 
This takes that so-called environment impact statement quite a deal further into the situation of examining products. It does show an international unanimity for countries to examine this aspect and to exchange information. Nowhere, through looking at the operations of the Department of the Environment and Conservation, can I see that thread that allows members of the Standing Committee to be able to discuss what is going on or to receive guidance as to what is going on. The matter concerns not only those products and processes used in production in developed countries. It is very important also in respect of developing countries. We still have a situation where it is quite easy for a developed country to put its dirty, environmentally unsound and contaminated processes into developing countries because of the economic carrot on the stick that developed countries can offer to developing countries. I raise this subject in the hope that we may devise some procedures to get the overall picture on the matters that are dealt with by the Department of the Environment and Conservation and, in fact, in the hope that that Department will develop further and into a better, and better understood, role. 
I agree with the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  when he suggests that the Department of Science should be a focal point for a number of matters in the scientific field. He placed rather heavy emphasis on the scientific needs of industry and technology. I agree that there are heavy needs in that area. I think there are also very heavy needs for the same aspects in the consumer field. But the biological science field should not be forgotten. Knowledge in this field is important because it may deal with the problems of land use and give indications for the proper use of biological resources such as forests etc. I have no doubt that one important aspect is the question of a biological survey. I come back to this matter briefly because I was a member of a committee in a previous Parliament which heard evidence from many eminent bodies and persons who stressed the urgency of a biological survey in Australia. So it was with some disappointment that I noted that of the appropriation of $120,000 in 1973-74 only 25 per cent was expended. 
I welcome the increase in grants for study in Australian biology resources to $358,000 this year, but I have some concern about this. A biological survey must have some central point which is able to indicate where the sources of information are. This will be a long term process. The projects that I have read about so far do not seem to have a great deal of joining thread between them. It is difficult to get an overall picture. The projects seem to bear more a taxonomic character than an ecological one. I think that in a biological survey one can become too much wedded to the taxonomist. There should be an examination of this matter but there has to be a balance between taxonomy and the survey of the ecosystem going right from the vertebrates to the micro organisms. We also need specialist units to look at some specialist areas. 
For example, an examination was recently carried out of the endangered species on Christmas Island. It was amazing to learn that although that island has been commercially exploited for so many years only 2 scientists have much knowledge of the flora and fauna of the island. Those honourable members who have taken the trouble to read the report will know that this was pretty important information to have because Australia subscribed to an international convention which it was obliged to recognise, and we had insufficient information to be able to carry out exploitation of that island's resources properly. I trust that that report will do something about the matter. It brings out the problems that Australia has with its off-shore islands wherever they may be placed. 
I would like to move briefly to the estimates for the Department of the Media. Like the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  I recently visited the Department and was impressed with its development in its various facets of operation. With the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  from the Opposition, I serve on the Advisory Committee to the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Victoria and it is about some of its operations that I would like to comment. I recall the enthusiasm that was being displayed some time ago by the team concerned with producing programs for the ABC. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  commented on the increase in the content of locally produced programs. In fact the ABC in its annual report says that in television the content of locally produced programs rose to 54.6 per cent, of which 52.7 per cent was produced by the ABC and 1.9 per cent was provided by independent Australian producers. This sort of increase was brought about because of Government policy- Labor Government policy- and I thank the honourable member for Bradfield for his congratulations on it. Even the much criticisedat its time of introduction- point system for Australian content has been effective in increasing the Australian content in the commerical area. Another thing that the ABC was able to do is referred to in this report. It states: 
The Commission is proud to report that again all television drama scripts used during the year were purchased from Australian writers. 
Once again a policy of encouraging local talent. During the year production began on a series called 'Rush' for transmission in the next financial year. It was a series of 12 episodes and was set in the 1850s. I believe that those who have viewed it would welcome the excellence of this Australian production. I think this comment should be made, because it followed up previous successful productions in the preceding 12 months. The Commission is to be congratulated on what it has done in its increase of excellent Australian productions. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Like the honourable member for Batman, I refer to reports and comments in reaction to the Prime Minister's statement on the economy. In this statement the Prime Minister referred to the proposal of the Government to compensate wage and salary earners for price increases during the December quarter by means of a cut in taxation. Although I believe the statement on this issue was perfectly clear, I ask the Prime Minister to give further information on this proposal so that the House and also Australian wage and salary earners may confirm the exact nature of the concept contained in the statement. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? 
Has the Prime Minister received a request for privileges and prerogatives for an additional party leader arising from the emergence of a fourth party in this chamber? If not, has he any reason to anticipate receiving such a request? 

Order! The word 'hypocrisy' is unparliamentary. I ask the honourable member to withdraw it. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian delegation to the third International Parliamentary Conference on the Environment which was held in Nairobi between 7 and 1 1 April 1974. 

 -Mr Speaker, on behalf of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, I bring up the report of the Committee on the Environmental Impact of Freeways, together with the extracts of the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I am conscious of the fact that the House wishes to deal promptly with these Bills so I will restrict my remarks to the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill. Those honourable members who have examined volume 2 of the Kangan report will know that in the electorate of Scullin there is probably the greatest concentration of technical institutions leading to technical and further education than in any other metropolitan electorate in Victoria. I have had long years of association with some of those institutions. We have heard a lot about Cinderellas and a lot of other comments from honourable members opposite. The hare was started by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  as a subject of a political naturalist's interest. They scampered across the landscape. In the last speech that he made on education he suggested that the Labor Government would destroy private education. The States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill has the Government funding private teachers' colleges to the extent of about $6. 5m, plus living allowances and fees of students. There is no comment from the honourable member for Moreton. That deals with that area. 
Let me take the minds of honourable members back to 24 April this year when a Federal election campaign was in progress. I read from a news release issued by the Technical Teachers Association of Australia. It states: 
Technical teachers reacted strongly against the education policy announced yesterday by the Opposition spokesman,  Senator Rae. 

 Mr R. B. Dedman, Secretary of the Technical Teachers Association of Australia, described  Senator Rae's  statement as a death blow to post-secondary technical education. 

 Senator Rae intends to shelve the recommendations of the Kangan Report indefinitely. Postponement of its recommendations until inflation is controlled amounts to that,  Mr Dedman  said. 
Technical education has always been the Cinderella area,  Mr Dedman  said, because it is the area of education used most by working class people. 
More students attend these colleges than attend all the universities and colleges of advanced education in Australia combined. 
The report of the Kangan Committee has been welcomed by everybody associated with post-secondary technical education because, for the first time, its importance gained recognition at the national level and the Australian Government has already committed itself to accept its findings. 
The statement by  Senator Rae  is a bitter blow to technical education that cannot be excused under any guise,  Mr Dedman  said. 
Yet we see the attitude displayed by honourable members opposite. During the last Federal election campaign- such a short time ago- they would have given this matter no priority whatsoever. Some concern has been expressed that there has been no legislation for a permanent Australian Commission on Technical and Further Education. Indeed, the Technical Teachers Association of Australia sent the following telegrams on 6 November 1974 to both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and  Mr Beazley,  the Minister for Education: 
TTAA concerned at delays in legislating for Australian Commission on Technical and Further Education STOP Particularly concerned at rumors that ACOTAFE will be merged with other Commissions STOP TAFE must retain its separate identity STOP TTAA urges you to ensure legislation immediately STOP Please advise 
Dedman, 
National Secretary, 
Technical Teachers Association of Australia. 
This telegram came from the Technical Teachers Association of Victoria: 
TTAV gravely concerned that TAFE's Cinderella image will be reinforced if the Australian Commission for Technical and Further Education is not legislated STOP Please inform re your government's intentions on this matter. 
I raise this matter to accentuate what the Minister said in his speech. He pointed out that the pressure of legislation has been great and it has been impossible to put the legislation for the permanent commission forward. He emphasised that the most important task is to get the money flowing into the technical colleges and therefore priority has been given to this Bill. He made it quite clear that the work undertaken by the Kangan Committee, and now carrying on under the chairmanship of Professor Richardson, is a living thing, that it will be legislated for and that there will be a permanent commission. Today we have the confirmation of this with the presentation of a further report. There has been criticism, and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  dicussed that criticism, of the way the money is to be distributed. The report presented today, and the amendment proposed for a later stage in these proceedings, will take due notice of the provision of supplementary general purpose recurrent expenditure and bring it up to the appropriate level. Even more than that, in that supplementary report put forward today by this continuing committee are questions relating to the proper procedures and the proper type of indexation to adjust recurrent grants for cost movements during the period of the program, and these are to be applied to capital grants as well. So the criticisms made in that area have been well and truly answered. 
I want to move to the question of the types of shortages that are occurring. I want to move to the apprenticeship area. I have shown a copy of a question and answer which appeared in the Victorian Parliamentary Hansard of 25 September 1974 to the honourable member for Moreton and I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. The honourable member for Moreton has agreed to the incorporation. 
This question relates to deficiencies for apprentices in Victoria. The answer indicates that at 25 September there were 1,708 apprentices who were unable to gain access to courses in schools conducted by the Education Department in that community. They will be admitted in February 1975 when it is expected that the shortages for apprenticeship placings will be even worse. In addition to those 1,708 apprentices unable to gain access to courses there were 433 apprentices from country areas who were unable to obtain technical training in local schools, and these have had the same problems. I am surprised that our friends in the Country Party corner have not taken this matter up because these figures show the grave state of technical education for trade training in Victoria. Hopefully the sorts of measures that have been carried out and the grants that are being made by the Australian Government will overcome these problems, because they are important. Unless we have skilled tradesmen we will not be able to supply the employment for those that work in support of them. We must take this point most seriously and trust that the grants given under this legislation will ensure that opportunities abound for them. 
Just briefly, I think honourable members might refer to the original Kangan Report. I refer them to pages 32 and 33 where the question of how the change should come about, and the needs, are expressed. Paragraph 6 states: 
The Committee believes that well balanced development is better served by gradual rather than abrupt changes. Probably the most difficult change to achieve is in deeply entrenched attitudes; these are modified only over time, and in some cases only after elderly influential administrators retire from the scene. Nevertheless, attitudinal considerations are implicit in a quest for well balanced development. 
Well may those remarks apply to legislators in the field of education. For too long has the technical field been neglected. For too long has the attitude to technical and further education been patronising. That attitude does not take account of the fact that this area trains more people to skills and gives more people opportunities than does any other area of post secondary education. I welcome the legislation that has been put forward. I am sorry that the honourable member for Moreton has been so ungenerous as to move the amendment he has moved, particularly in view of the statements made by his Party's former official spokesman on education so few months ago. 
-It is a new broom that looks as though it is losing some of its bristles. Perhaps bids for leadership helped that. I should like to raise just one final matter on which the Minister may have an opportunity to comment It is in an unrelated field of further education. I receive a number of queries from students and parents of students undertaking training at bible and theological colleges. They want to know why thenfees cannot be paid as those for students in other post-secondary institutions are. I realise that there is the general principle of the separation of church and state. I understand from the Minister I hope he will correct me if I am wrong- that if the State governments and the universities accepted these training institutions as theological faculties of universities it would be possible for the fees of the students to be paid. 
Or if they were recognised as colleges of advanced education instead of faculties of universities. I believe that one principle should, be enunciated in this case: No religious test should be placed on students entering such courses. I mention this so that it can be clarified because there have been a number of queries on it. If I have incorrectly interpreted the matter I am sure the Minister will correct me. I commend the Bills that are before the House and urge thenprompt passage. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Killen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? As there is no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The level of conversation in the chamber is far too high. The business of the House will not resume until the House comes to order. 
Order! I ask honourable members to observe the Standing Orders and to take their seats. I ask them not to stand in the aisles and not to conduct conversations at such a high level that the honourable member for Hotham cannot be heard. 

 Mr CHIPP Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask for your protection. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! On 3 occasions I have asked for the House to come to order. I will issue no further warnings. I will name the next honourable member who offends. 
I express some regret that these 2 Bills are being discussed in cognate debate at this particular stage of the sittings of the House because I feel that they are far too significant in their content to be allowed only perfunctory debate. One of the problems is that with regard to national parks and wildlife conservation there seems to be a general attitude amongst legislators that only 'eco nuts' are interested in this sort of situation. Of course, closer examination reveals that there is far more to it than this. There is not only the matter of enjoyment of life and enjoyment of these factors by the community but there is on analysis, a very complex economic structure involved in these matters, and not just involved with preservation of the areas but involved with people who visit them and all the things that flow from them. I hope I will get a chance to expand on that a little later in the debate. 
I have no quarrel with the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  when he says that Commonwealth-States co-operation will be essential. Of course it will be essential, but his approach seems predicated on the premise that the Commonwealth is already deeply involved in this field and has an overriding influence, and that of course no service established by the Commonwealth and administered centrally could be effective. May I remind the honourable member that in the United States of America the first national park was Yellowstone, which was established in 1872. Since then, through successive Congressional enactments a system has developed containing 250 parks in the 50 States and in Puerto Rico and in the Virgin Islands. Along with that there has developed also a system of State parks, and not only is the service well conducted at both levels but there is significant co-operation. We in fact are a very late starter in this field of national parks and their coordination. I think the honourable member has failed to realise that. The National Park Service in America, which operates on a national basis, has now been in existence for 58 years and we are just getting around to the same sort of organisation and to getting the same sort of pride in service as America has. If we are going to consider the question of national parks and wildlife conservation, I should like to quote from the foreword to a book titled 'Criteria for Parklands ', which is published by the National Park Service of the United States. The foreword states: 
One of the vital elements of conservation in any country in any time is the preservation of those places of beauty and history which give meaning amd substance to the national character. 
This is neither antiquarianism nor barren pride in past glory or scenic wonders. 'It is something that gives us deep assurance and a sense of destiny and a determination to hold on fast to the great things that have been done through valor and imagination by those who have gone before us.' 
If, in our time, we are to conserve the great cultural and natural resources of this Nation, it will demand the combined efforts of Federal, State, and local governments, citizens' organizations, and individuals. 
It is that sort of national aspect that I want to emphasise. We must not overlook the fact that States already have established national parks. The Government is seeking to see that further areas are set aside in a proper national system. In his amendment the honourable member states that the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory was not consulted. I know that the honourable member, with his experience as a Minister, knows that legislation such as this is not produced in a couple of weeks; it takes some time. In fact, the truth of the matter is that in the Northern Territory on 6 November 1973 senior officers of the Department of the Environment and Conservation attended a meeting in Darwin of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The Government leader in the Council at that time drew the Council's attention to the availability of these officers to discuss the proposed National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill. Only 2 members of the Legislative Council took the opportunity to have these discussions with the officers. Discussions on this Bill took place with the Secretary of the Department of the Northern Territory and with the Reserves Board. Further, senior officers of the Department spoke at a public seminar in Darwin on 27 April of" this year. So I think it is drawing the long bow and aggravating the situation to suggest that there was lack of consultation. Legislation is not created overnight, and when we are already 50 years or more behind most of the developed countries of the world in this respect it is time to get a move on and get this legislation before the House. 
In the period from 1969 to 1972 the Joint Committee on Wildlife Conservation made representations to the Parliament on this matter. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  was a member of that Committee and will know the feelings that it expressed. It wished to see that a national policy be initiated and that we acquire such portion of the total land area of each State and Territory in the form of secure national parks and reserves to ensure that all habitat types will be preserved. 
This is a co-existent matter, a matter not only of the national service but of the State or Territorial services as well. In particular, the Australian Government had a responsibility to get under its control such areas in its Territories- the A.C.T. and the Northern Territory. The States Grants (Nature Conservation) Bill is a Bill which will provide finance for the State governments to become further active in this area. To suggest that the Bills imply an antagonism to the established State parks and wildlife services is, I think, drawing the long bow in the extreme. 
The question of land use generally arises along with this and with the recommendations of the Committee, and the honourable member for Gwydir made some mention of this. There is developing a system of land use authorities in the Territories and in the States, and here again I shall refer honourable members to the report for 1973-74 of the Australian Biological Resources Study Interim Council, which honourable members received last week. There are 2 sections in the report which concern land usage. The first section at page 4 is headed 'Ecologically oriented studies' and the second section at page 5 is headed 'Relationship to Funding by the Department of Environment and Conservation'. The report points out that although the biological resources study has started - 
Debate interrupted. 
-When the debate was interrupted last night I was referring to a section of the Australian Biological Resources Study Interim Council report which had some bearing on land use. I think this is referable to the national parks and wildlife legislation because it says, amongst other things: 
However, the fact must be faced that adequate  taxonomitdata  may not be available before decisions about the use of land need to be made. This underlines the importance of extensive collections for taxonomic purposes in little-known areas and of basing land-use decisions on ecological surveys in which the native flora and fauna are given high priority us a national resource. 
I think this illustrates that if the National Parks and Wildlife Service is to function properly there must be a stimulation of the activity in the biological resources study field. 
In some ways I regret that this legislation is so narrow in its scope. I have seen national parks I think on every continent except the South American continent. There are 2 things which impress one about these national parks. One is the national nature- not the State rights oneand the greater scope of control which is exercised. They do not just cover national parks. They cover national monuments which are land and water areas of lesser acreage than national parks but have great significance, usually of a scientific nature; historical areas; recreational areas- (Quorum formed)  Mr Speaker,  when I was interrupted I was listing a number of things that are under the control of national parks and wildlife commissions overseas. The commissions are also responsible for such things as national land marks and historical land marks. Of course, in Australia many of these areas of responsibility reside in departments other than the Department of the Environment and Conservation and will be covered by authorities other than the National Parks and Wildlife Service. I think that this Bill is a start. Perhaps with experience many of those other areas will be added to the responsibilities of the Service. I certainly hope that we will continue a reviewing process in this area. 
I made some comment in the early part of my speech to the economics of the national park and wildlife procedures. I referred to the fact that it is not just a matter of looking at this from the point of view of econuts- the term which is used nowadays. But there are strong economic reasons for developing these systems. I refer honourable members to a paper 'Travel and the National Parks- an economic study', by Emeritus Professor Swanson who writes on the United States national parks. While I cannot discuss this paper in detail, because I know that we wish to get this Bill through, I would just quote one portion of what he has to say about the national park system in America. He said: 
The National Park System with appropriations of around $102m contributes at least 45 times this amount to the American people in the way of increased income- or more than 55 times the appropriations when income is stated as gross national product. Add to such amounts the indeterminable but probably large values growing out of the cultural and historical contributions, as well as the stimulation of economic growth, we then see in our National Park System an asset structure few others may eclipse. 
I hope that some consideration will be given to that aspect and perhaps we may see the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  at some stage giving the same son of economic assessment of what the national park setup in Australia means to the Australian economic system. I welcome the Bill. I hope that the parks will be developed. I hope that appropriate commissioners are appointed to the service and that they will not be satisfied with its present form but will seek a constant examination and development of it in the future. 
The honourable member should move it as an amendment to the amendment. 
After sub-clause ( 12) (b) add the following paragraph: 
where operations or future operations for the recovery of minerals or excavations or other works are contemplated provide an environmental impact assessment related to these operations prepared by those proposing to engage in the recovery of minerals, excavations or other works. 
The Minister could quite rightly claim that he has introduced environmental protection legislation which gives the Minister power to call for environmental impact assessments. This makes other Commonwealth departments responsible for the submission of environmental impact assessments in areas where there is Australian Government involvement. Very wide powers and very wide powers of discretion are given to the Minister. While I have no doubt that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation who is sitting at the table would, in fact, as a matter of course demand that an environmental impact assessment be provided with regard to any operations that may be contemplated within a reserve or a national park another may not. 
As I said in my speech in the debate on the second reading, I and I am sure a lot of people do not like the thought of mining or other works taking place in national parks or reserves. Certainly I would not like to see this take place in wilderness areas. Of course, that has been prohibited in this legislation. 
The point has been made that unless mining and other works are provided for within national parks, the likelihood of establishing national parks is a lot less. It is the thinking of many well informed environmentalists around the world that it is probably better to allow mining to take place where there is mineralisation and where it may be considered to be in the national interest provided the mining is undertaken according to very strict guidelines and under the codes of the plans of management. However, before any consideration is given to the possibility of mining I think it should be mandatory that those who are going to take part in the mining exercise, whether it be done by the proposed Petroleum and Minerals Authority, by private enterprise or in association with an authority of the Australian Government, should undertake an environmental impact assessment to ascertain the likely effect upon the environment within that park and the area adjacent thereto. 
Many things have to be considered. We have to consider the ways in which the minerals are taken from the area. It does not involve just the digging of a hole in the ground. It probably requires the construction of railways and port facilities in the region. It may require extensive highway development and so on. It could require the establishment of an infrastructure such as villages in the Northern Territory. Probably we would see the development of quite a substantial town adjacent to the proposed national park, or perhaps within it. I do not know what the position would be but whatever is contemplated in this area I believe that there should be an environmental impact assessment that relates to these operations. It should be prepared by those proposing to engage in the recovery of minerals and should be taken into account before approval and authority are given. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation, I bring up the report of the Committee on deposits on beverage containers, together with extracts of the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond -Leader of the Australian Country Party)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if there has been any misrepresentation it has been by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  By innuendo he suggested that I or my Party might have borrowed from the Australian Industry Development Corporation. I can assure him that there is no association whatsoever, and the Labor Party can try as it likes to - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! 

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197412052_13_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="092131197412052_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

was because of extremely bad seasonal conditions.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the movements in the usage of superphosphate from 1947 to 1971. 
Can the Prime Minister provide the House with any further information on the issue of the proper and democratic manner in which casual Senate vacancies are filled? 
I wish to address myself briefly to the Australia Council Bill. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  made some comment about the delay in this Bill coming before the House for debate. I think that in fairness he would admit that the delay in bringing the Bill forward for debate has not interfered with the function of the interim Australian Council for the Arts. In fact we have received reports from the interim Council and so many of the functions have been going on that the criticism could scarcely be made that this delay would reduce the effectiveness of what will be the Australia Council. I think in many ways the delay has been something of an advantage because we have been journeying into what is rather a new field of endeavour in a rather volatile group. It is volatile because of the very nature of its activities. The delay has given us the opportunity to hear their opinions, their fears, and their hopes as to what might eventuate. For those of us on the Government side who are concerned with legislation dealing with the arts it has been a very fascinating period because of the submissions that have been made to us. I think that even the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  with his wide experience in this field, has appreciated the opportunity to discuss so many of the matters that have been brought forward. I do not accept the fact that there has been a delay in the passage of this legislation as ground for criticism. I think that it has been an advantage in the case of the Australia Council Bill. 
I think that it is very easy to accept that the functions of the Council are to promote excellence, and so on. There are 9 functions of the Council listed in the Bill. I would like to mention three of them that might be overlooked by many of those who are interested more in their application to the arts. The third function postulated in the Bill is the promotion of the appreciation, understanding and enjoyment of the arts. That is a very wide statement of principle. What do we do in that area? Are we going to wait for established artists to go forth and sell their talents in whatever field they are interested, whether it be ballet, theatre or painting, or are we going to use them to get down to those people in their formative years in not only the practising of the arts but also the appreciation of the arts? I believe that this is something that we have been missing in Australia for a long time. 
Those honourable members who have spoken on the Bill have agreed that we are entering into a new era with the establishment of the Australia Council. It will be a new era. The Council is going to have very important effects on the practicing of the arts. I think that it is unfortunate that in accepting that we are entering into a new era we may forget that much has been done in the field of arts in Australia in the past and may forget those excellent practitioners who have laid the foundations so that we now have an established community, irrespective of whether the members of it have had to go overseas to get further experience. That community is proud to say that it is representative of various fields of Australian art. So I trust that we will look very thoroughly at how the Australia Council carries out its function of promoting the appreciation, understanding and enjoyment of the arts. 
The Council is also required to promote the general application of the arts in the community. I think that it has shown some facility for doing that. In fact, one of the actions in this respect got me into a little bit of trouble in my own area. My own city has been very active in this field, having had a symphony orchestra, a brass band, performing arts groups and play groups established for many years. One thing in which it is lacking is sculpture. So it was announced that an award would be made for a piece of sculpture to be placed outside the library in our community centre. In the announcement it was said that Preston was a culturally deprived area. That was meant in the sense of sculpture. It is very rich in other areas of the performing arts. If we are to promote this application of the arts we must handle it with some care because in that case a modern piece of sculpture was introduced into a community in which the majority of the people are not accustomed to modern sculpture and it was done without proper preparation. I am afraid that I have heard it expressed that the attempt to promote the art form in this way is wasted. So that is another area in which we will have to take care. 
I direct the attention of honourable members also to the fact that the Council is required to encourage the support of the arts by the States, local governing bodies and other organisations and persons. Let that not be forgotten. Do not let us see a situation arise in which the Australia Council is expected to be the sole stimulating body in the encouragement of support for the arts. The other bodies must carry out their appropriate functions. 
The main criticism of the functioning of the body has been that elitism might arise. I think a lot of members have received from interested groups submissions on this matter. I have some sympathy with this argument. I think that 'elitism' is probably the wrong word. When one is not of the establishment it is easy to criticise the establishment. When one is of the establishment it is easy to ignore those who are outside it. The success of the Australia Council will be determined by how its boards function and how the Council functions in bringing in those practitioners of the arts who have to be encouraged and who have to prove themselves. I do not think that raising the criticism of elitism is a very bad thing. It makes us conscious of what we are looking for. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  spoke of promotion of community arts. I think he illustrated the problem that one faces at the outset with a body such as this in giving encouragment. He compared the expenditure that went to the established art forms with the small amounts which local groups received. This is only because the Council is in its initial phases. I commend the form of the Council and its boards which will allow that anomaly to be corrected in future and which will allow local groups to receive encouragement and due recognition. 
I think one other factor of which honourable members should take note is that the functioning of this Council will be well under the scrutiny of the Parliament. The Council is required to report annually to the Minister as soon as practicable after the end of each financial year, reporting on the operations of the Councils, revealing the financial statement. Following presentation to the Minister, the report shall be laid before each House of the Parliament within 1 5 sitting days of that House after having been received by the Minister. This is always a safeguard in that what has been carried out by a statutory body such as this is capable of examination and interpretation as to effectiveness and the expenditure involved. I am pleased that all honourable members approve, despite some minor criticisms, the principles of the Australia Council BUI and wish it well. I hope that much of the accent of its work will be in educating the community to enjoy the arts and to recognise talent in these fields. 
-In deference to the desire to have these Bills passed through this House as quickly as possible it is my intention to abbreviate very much the remarks that I had proposed to make. I have expressed myself on a previous occasion on my regard for and concern about the important economic problems from which Australia suffers arising from overseas circumstances. During the parliamentary recess I visited a number of countries. While we have inflation and unemployment, I am satisfied that we have by far the best inbuilt government mechanisms to soften the effects of these problems. It is with some regret that I have to say that I did not observe any indication of short term improvement in overseas conditions. I feel that the problems will persist for some time. 
However, the remarks that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  made on this issue in the House yesterday would bear studying by honourable members. I think he placed this matter on a common sense basis. The base of these Appropriation Bills of course is to provide the finance necessary to deal with the Darwin and Tasman Bridge disasters. These have been dealt with by honourable members closely associated with those areas either in this or in other debates. It is with regard to grants to the States that I want to pass some brief comments. I find it regrettable that the House has very little opportunity in a comprehensive way to discuss the financial relationships between the Australian Government and the State Governments. We do deal with grants Bills in various specific areas, otherwise the amounts that go to the States are allied with other matters such as they are in these Bills. 
I note with some regret that the Constitutional Convention which was so widely lauded not so long ago has fallen by the wayside. In the area of State and Federal finances there was much to be done. However, the Senate has obstructed the make-up of the Australian parliamentary delegation to that Convention and interest seems to have been lost. Every time there are Premiers conferences the Press and media are full of the threats of Federal and State confrontation. This arises from the basic problem of having a system that started with the inception of the Federal Parliament, which saw some few changes in the 1 940s and has made very little progress since in the mechanisms that are used. We have not had an opportunity to discuss what submissions were made at the last conference. We certainly have notes on the conference. We have the Prime Minister's opening statment to that conference and we see the results in the amounts that are to be paid to the States. They are amounts which in the main are to try to combat some of the economic and unemployment problems we are suffering from at the moment. 
At this stage of the debate and with the necessity for these appropriations to go through, it would be idle of me to try to go through these amounts in detail. They are substantial. They are to work in appropriate areas for relief. Welfare housing, roads, and the question of various council programs for employment are adequately covered. However, I make some comment that we should consider as a Parliament how these amounts are presented in carrying out the works and how it should be known that this Parliament and this Government accept their responsibility in areas. I get a little fed up at times when I see road programs with signs which say: 'Your taxes working for you'. The States are entirely claiming the credit for such projects. I believe that we should make known just what we are doing. I am not going into the Federal and State relationship too deeply. I use this as a vehicle to express my concern that this whole matter seems to have been dumped in considering the constitutional relationships and the desirable changes. It is about time that we woke up that a lot of our problems are concerned with this area. 
I welcome the added appropriations that are made with regard to the National Employment and Training scheme and the national apprenticeship scheme. But allied with this I must speak, with regard to my own electorate, about the amount that is appropriated to assist starling in those organisations or in the Department of Labor and Immigration which have so much responsibility in these matters. In the electorate of Scullin I have a high content of unskilled and semi-skilled workers and of industries which are allegedly affected by the tariff alterations. The staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service in that area has been under excessive strain in dealing with the problems. The added allocation of finance in the Bills will relieve this strain. I take the opportunity of paying a tribute to the work that the staff has done in recent months. 
My friends comments are addressed to the amounts that are to be made available for medical research. Last year a number of workers in the medical research field expressed concern at the funding in those areas. On this occasion a payment of $2m is to be made to the Medical Research Endowment Fund. Both the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research and the Howard Florey Institute of Experimental Physiology in Medicine in Melbourne will receive grants of half a million dollars. I trust that this will go some way towards relieving the concern that was expressed by research workers in the field who make considerable material sacrifice in order to carry out an essential community procedure for the benefit of mankind. I commend the Appropriation Bills to House. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. It arises from the declaration of the Japanese Foreign Minister at the last session of the United Nations General Assembly that Japan was making the necessary preparations for the ratification of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In view of Australia's interest in this matter, can the Prime Minister inform the House of the measures being taken by Japan to give effect to its public statement in favour of ratification of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty? 
-In the case of social issues such as this Bill I believe it is important for honourable members to express where they stand. This is my reason for entering the debate for a few brief minutes. I make it quite clear from the outset that I support the Bui. A voluminous amount of correspondence has been landing on my desk- some for, some against, some from people in my electorate and some from people in all parts of Australia. A minority of the correspondence has been hectoring and threatening in tone, which I regret. A proportion has been pleading. Some letters have been well informed and constructive in putting a case for or against the Bill. Others though sincere have been ill informed, not informed or deliberately misinformed. Still others are just of the chain letter type. 
I accept the right of people to express their views to me as a member of the Australian Parliament. I was rather perturbed initially at some comment that was made with regard to the length of discussion to be allowed for the Bill. This Bill came from the Senate where it had been the subject of Committee examination. In fact it had been the subject of hours of examination by that chamber and many amendments came forward as a result of that examination. I am also perturbed at the bland assumption by some that this Bill strikes at the very roots of marriage and that all evil flows from it. It is said that this Bill makes divorce easy and will allow people to enter marriage carelessly. This seems a ridiculous argument as any couple prepared to take this attitude would not bother about marriage but would simply live together as that is not illegal. 
It has been said that this Bill will destroy happy marriages. Let us face it, legislation does not lay the basis for happy marriage. The basis for happy marriage lies in the character of the people concerned. Many factors contribute to this such as home background and upbringing, education and opportunity, religious belief and training, and the sort of moral code, ethics and attitude that has been inculcated in individuals during their lifetime. This legislation serves to attempt to preserve marriage through the mechanism for conciliation and reconciliation. I think adequate provision is made in this held. But when the break up is final the legislation makes the process as sympathetic and humane as possible. 
I am surprised at some of the high emotion that has accompanied the discussion on this matter. One of the opponents of the Bill described a happy marriage as hard work. After 24 years experience of happy marriage I do not believe this. I think it is an entirely wrong concept to say that happy marriage is hard work. Nor can I accept the amendment that has been put forward as I believe the Bill is fully relevant to the majority of points made. I see no virtue in increasing the time for separation from one to two years as is suggested in paragraph (g) of the amendment. In fact, if the question of time is to be discussed, surely this would be better done in the Committee stage of the Bill. What virtue is there in 2 years as against one year? Surely after 12 months it would be obvious whether a marriage had irretrievably broken down. 
I am also concerned about the attitude expressed in paragraphs (d) and (e) of the amendment, namely, that full and proper recognition be given to the status and rights of a woman as a wife and mother and that there should be full and proper protection of the wife and children in the event of the dissolution of a marriage. Why should the husband, the father, the male, be excluded from the same sorts of considerations? Those who have experience in counselling in these situations know that very often the male is the one left with the children, accumulated debts and all sort of problems. It seems a little hypocritical to me to concentrate on just that phase. As a medical practitioner, a former member of a State parliament and a member of this Parliament, I have frequently been called upon by one or other or both parties to a broken marriage to do some counselling. 
One of the most distressing features in this area has been the concept of matrimonial fault and what flows from it. The need for one to be the guilty party carries all sorts of distress. For example, the husband is forced to use private investigators to provide evidence of his wife's adultery, or the reverse may be the position. Even worse are the stratagems that have been used so that one party can be seen to be at fault or can be seen to be guilty, although in fact no guilt may attach, or the situation when a marriage has irretrievably broken down and the procedures could have been gone through quietly and with the rninimum of ill will but the concept of matrimonial fault has led to an extreme adversary situation which results in a lifetime of ill will and which is reflected on any children of the marriage. This Bill takes a far more compassionate attitude. 
A further important factor is that there will be reduced financial strain on the parties because of the cost of proceedings in dealing with a break-up of marriage. It seems to me that the Bill places the welfare and custody of children on a reasonably enlightened basis. It is obvious that in the past there has been an inbuilt bias with regard to maintenance and property in such proceedings. I believe that this Bill makes adequate allowances in that area and that the new principles are commonsense ones. I do not believe that they place either party to a broken marriage at a disadvantage. Those who allege that they do so do not seem to have studied the guidelines that are laid down in the BUI, particularly those in clause 75. 1 think they spell out in some detail the factors that are properly to be taken into consideration and that will lead to a reasoned and reasonable result. 
At this late stage in the second reading debate it is difficult to raise anything that is new. Most things that ought to have been said have been said. I can only affirm my support for what I believe is a socially responsible Bill which preserves human dignity and lessens the trauma for those forced to make use of its provisions after the irretrievable breakdown of marriage. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  on his appointment as the Opposition spokesman on education in this House and I wish him many long and interesting years in that capacity. I think that much of what he has contributed on the Bill provides legitimate areas for nonpartisan discussion. What he had to say was quite useful commentary. There are 2 areas that he has raised with which I cannot agree. Firstly there is his amendment which shows the obsession that he has that the States should as of right have a representative on the Technical and Further Education Commission. This is a procedure that we have not followed with other commissions. It is a procedure which would open the way to all other sorts of interest groups demanding that their rights for representation should also be written into the legislation. I think that this would produce a situation of inflexibility and would lead to results which we would not desire. If the honourable member is worried about what will happen to the State systems of education, I suggest the recommendations and reports of this Commission and the States' attitudes to them and, I am sure, acceptance of them, will be full answer that they will be satisfied with the way that it operates. 
As to the honourable member's suspicion of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  as being the last of the Tasmanian devils. I think that the Minister answered by interjection the argument that the honourable member put for a very specialised committee which would look into a very restricted area. One welcomes the fact that finally the legislation for the Technical and Further Education Commission has reached the House. The other related commissions- the Schools Commission, the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education- are all well and truly established and functioning as permanent bodies. Admittedly the Technical and Further Education Commission has been functioning in an interim manner. It is to be hoped that, although this is the last of the major educational commissions to attain permanent status, this fact will not mean that the Commission will be the least or the Cinderella of the group. 
Honourable members will recall that the Interim Committee on Technical and Further Education was appointed by the present Australian Minister for Education on 26 April 1973. On 5 April 1974 this Committee, known as the Kangan Committee, presented its report. It is only proper at this stage that I should invite honourable members to reflect on the extent of that report. The Committee had had over 200 submissions from organisations and individuals covering a very wide scope. Trade unions, teacher organisations, employer organisations, government bodies, etc., felt it worth while to make submissions to that Committee. Underlying the submissions was a general concensus that in this field educational opportunities should be specific and meaningful. It was of the utmost importance that these educational opportunities should be accessible at whatever time or stage of life they would be of use. 
Historically those in the technical field have always been the battlers of the education system. In Victoria there developed rather earlier than elsewhere a large technical system. One of the problems of this system was its too early streaming. One can note historically with some satisfaction the development of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology whose original function was delineated in its early name, the Workingmen's College, then becoming the Melbourne Technical College, and finally becoming the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, a member of the Victorian Institute of Colleges. This institution played a magnificent role in bringing hundreds of thousands of full and part time students whom it trained into appropriate occupations and gave them further education generally. It represents one of the systems of development in this country. 
Different systems have developed in different States and this sometimes leads to a misunderstanding of systems that are operating. The Commission proposed by this legislation may break down some of the existing conventional barriers. There are 4 factors that will lead to the increased use of technical and further education. There is the present youthfulness of the population of which some 46 per cent are under the age of 25 years. Secondly, there is the spreading concern that educational effort should be linked with the particular goal of securing satisfying occupations. Very noticeably there is the still growing participation of married women in the labour force. They offer a potential for increasing the proportion of the population with formal training. 
The final factor was adverted to by the Minister. The rapid rate of technological change during, say, my lifetime has seen a growing need for a number in the work force to be retrained for other occupations. There has also been a growth of aspirations in those of mature age who seek greater intellectual satisfaction and job opportunity and satisfaction. It will be certain that a high proportion of those now entering the work force will need and indeed will seek retraining during their working life. 
There is another factor that we should not overlook. If one examines the activities of bodies such as the Council for Adult Education in Victoria one sees that there is also a need among people for the opportunity to do some study just for study's sake, for intellectual satisfaction. Greater flexibility in the field of technical and further education will mean that this field will carry the brunt of demand from the factors that I have listed. One has only to look at the functions proposed for the Commission which are set out in clause 6 of the Bill to realise just what possibilities there are in the functioning of this Commission to provide opportunities for the community. 
There are a- couple of features in the educational field that disturb me. It seems to me that we are orientating the aspirations of our young people to seeing the possession of a piece of paper stating that they have a degree, diploma or certificate in some specific area as the ultimate end of the educational process. It will be difficult to reverse this attitude. The educational first phase should be to prepare a well adjusted individual with a developed community sense and an attainable job aspiration. This individual may not need to have any formal piece of paper. He may have gone through a series of disciplines or portions of disciplines. At the end of this phase there should be the opportunity to take education further in a particular area or series of areas. This could be done immediately or at any stage of life. 
My other concern is that when this Bill is passed and four Commissions are set up, the Parliament should not just leave this as a static arrangement. The Commissions have considerable potential for innovation and ongoing reviews. I welcome this. However, their reports and their progress should be a matter of continuing examination by the Parliament. Ultimately Parliament must accept responsibility for educational change. It must not be afraid, with changing circumstances, to adjust the nature of the Commissions and the interplay of their functions. For example, technical teachers' organisations have expressed some disappointment about this Commission, the Technical and Further Education Commission. This probably arises because, as I have said before, it is the last of the educational commissions to be ratified. As yet, the finance processes and recommendations of the Interim Commission have not become obvious. 
Two of the criticisms are concerned with communicationthat is, knowing what is going on and what is expected of the organisations- and also the question of teacher participation in the programs. I think that this question of communication is probably one of the problems that most Government bodies have; that is, letting those interested in the field concerned know the intentions and what is going on. I do not speak only of teachers' organisations in this regard because there are many other bodies concerned. Factors such as this are proper matters for us to consider in the future when we see the progress that is being made. 
I warmly support the setting up of the Technical and Further Education Commission. We will watch with interest the make-up of the Commission and the programs it recommends for initiation. I am sure that the procedure laid down for reports to the Minister and for his presentation of those reports to the Parliament will allow members of the Parliament to examine these matters closely in the future. We wish the Technical and Further Education Commission well when this legislation is passed. 
I am somewhat diffident at entering this debate when I notice the number of legal luminaries from the Opposition who are addressing themselves to the question. I think that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  did himself a disservice in rather overstating the case of the influence of the Party of which he is a member- the Liberal Party of Australia- in introducing this sort of reform. One can understand his desire to boost its flagging fortunes. But I think that in honesty he would have to admit that in dating the origins of the Administrative Appeal Tribunal Bin to just 5 years ago and the action of a LiberalCountry Party government he completely ignores the activity in countries with our system of law and our system of government. I refer to the Canadian, United Kingdom and New Zealand experiences. As a member of a Party that talks about State rights, the honourable member completely ignored the activities that have been carried out by individual Australian States in this area of reform. I say that without much heat because I think the honourable member has done himself a disservice. 
In some ways I regret that it was not possible for this Bill and the ombudsman Bin to be considered together in cognate debate. The reasons for such Bills have common origin. I think it worth while to examine some of those origins. What we are faced with is the problems that have occurred with the development of our legal system and the development of our parliamentary democratic system. It has become increasingly obvious with the development of modern technology, the changed way and pace of life and the increasing acceptance on all sides of the welfare state that there has been increasing government involvement in the citizens' daily life and a dramatic expansion of the Executive 's power. In our present way of life our community planning, the developing interrelationships between individuals and between the individual and public bodies, the standards we enjoy could not have been achieved without giving powers to certain public bodies or to have certain controls and rights to protect the community but which of necessity affect individuals. People have come to accept that in certain circumstances their private rights may have to be subordinated to the claims of the community at large. However, it is important to ensure that a citizen who believes his rights have been unduly infringed has the opportunity to have his grievance considered. 
The delegation of legislation from the legislature by conferring regulation making powers is another factor. I am constantly reassured that we are adequately protected since such regulations may be disallowed by the Parliament. This has always seemed to me to be a fairly negative procedure and in the absence of positive examination and decision unfair regulations may get through. Of course, in saying that I may be underrating the performance of the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  in a preceding debate referred to the Subordinate Legislation Committee of the Victorian Par.liament in which members of both Houses of Parliament and of aU political parties examine the regulations as is necessary to ensure that they are properly within the relevant power. Histori.cally the protection available to the citizen against administrative procedures really started with the prerogative writs which the honourable member for Bennelong mentioned, those of mandamus, certiorari and prohibition being the significant ones in this administrative field. While our legal system has shown a considerable ability to modify and adapt, a limit is reached with the prerogative writs. The situation has been reached where the argument becomes not so much whether the administrative act or decision was legal but rather whether the method of review by use of the prerogative writ was or is proper. 
The honourable member for Bennelong mentioned another alternative, the appeal through the member of Parliament. This I think is becoming an increasingly impossible task for individual members of Parliament. In Australia, the system of administrative courts and tribunals sprang up on a disorganised basis and grew in an ad hoc manner. It did not occur because our procedures and officials were particularly malevolent; it was a human problem of different interpretations being made by different individuals. Many other countries had parallel experiences in which their development arose out of the British legal system. Other countries whose origins lay in Roman law had a different experience. I quote from 'Ombudsman' by Geoffrey Sawer when he deals with the French Council of State. He wrote: 
But the theory of separation of powers adopted by the French at the time of the Revolution included a view that the ordinary courts should not be concerned with characteristically governmental acts. The Council of State, an institution inherited from the old monarchy, was used by Napoleon mainly as a means of organizing and controlling the whole field of government administration, both central and local - 
Then, amongst other things, Professor Sawer goes on to say: 
But since citizens could not take grievances against government, even local government, to the ordinary courts, they petitioned the Council of State for redress. . . . 
Under that system, there have developed these judicial tribunals to deal with administrative problems. But unfortunately, because of the differences in the development of our systems, their transplantation is rather difficult. 
Despite what the honourable member for Bennelong said- he referred to the Kerr Committee and to the Bland Committee; I am not in any way detracting from the excellence and content of those reports- there has been a wide variety of committees of inquiry into this matter. Indeed, my interest in appeals from administrative decisions and in the ombudsman arose from my membership of a committee of the Victorian Parliament which, in the early 1960s, was entrusted with an examination of these areas. Fortunately, with respect to the work of committees that Parliament was more enlightened than is this Parliament. If it was necessary for a committee of the Victorian Parliament to travel outside Australia to assist its deliberations, it was permitted to do so. This allowed us to meet some of those persons who were concerned in their activities on administrative appeals tribunals and indeed as ombudsmen. So, one could see the development that was occurring in other countries long before 5 years ago which, according to the statement by the honourable member for Bennelong, was when this move started in Australia 
For years it was said that concepts such as administrative appeals tribunals or ombudsmen were proposals which oppositions advocated and that governments avoided as they provided a means of overseeing the administrative acts of governments. However, now the barrier is broken. Whatever the honourable member for Bennelong might say, the barrier is broken and action with respect to these matters is being implemented, not only here in the Australian Parliament but in the Australian States as well. 
That stage having been reached, I express some regret that this Parliament does not have a proper legislative committee system to a committee of which, comprising representatives of all sides of the Parliament, this legislation could be referred for examination. I am not suggesting that this legislation is perfect in its ambit. I think that matters such as these require prolonged and detailed examination by all honourable members. 
I recall being rather impressed in the course of the inquiry I mentioned by a draft BUI from the International Commission of Jurists which, amongst other things, provided:  ... the  President  and the Court shall act according to equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case, without regard to technicalities or legal forms, and shall not be bound by the rules of evidence but, subject to the requirements of justice, may inform his or its mind on any matter in such manner as he or it thinks fit. 
In searching the BUI, I find that there is perhaps some parallel to that provision in clause 33 which provides in sub-clause ( 1 ): 
the proceedings shall be conducted with as little formality and technicality, and with as much expedition, as the requirements of this Act and of every other relevant enactment and a proper consideration of the matters before the Tribunal permit; and 
the Tribunal is not bound by the rules of evidence but may inform itself on any matter in such manner as it thinks appropriate. 
I think that those provisions fall somewhat short of the expression by the International Commission of Jurists. Further, if clause 33 is read in conjunction with the remainder of Part IV, it seems to me that the proceedings could be too rigid and, indeed, rather more orthodox and legalistic than one would have hoped. 
I suppose that it is only natural that some of the reservations that will be expressed from both sides of the House have common ground as the sources of information are common. There has been some criticism of the requirement that the presidential members shall be appointed only from persons qualified for appointment to the judiciary. I do not share that reservation as I feel that this would seem essential if the presidential member is to be entrusted with the interpretation in matters of law. 
A further criticism has been that the Tribunal's jurisdiction- the honourable member for Bennelong says that it has no jurisdiction- is limited to those administrative decisions which arise from powers derived from a specific enactment. It has been properly pointed out that there is a substantial body of government programs which provide rights and benefits both to organisations and to individuals which do not arise with the backing of specific legislation. In general, they arise from the 'Other Services' or 'Ordinary Services' appropriations in the relevant appropriation Acts. 
Honourable members will recognise that schemes such as the National Employment and Training scheme- the NEAT scheme- grants in aid to child care centres and so on are examples of these. Of course even with respect to these matters, rules are adopted which define or regulate access to the programs and benefits. But these rules are not of a legislative character and so do not fall within the ambit of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I would hope that, subsequent to this Bill being passed, action may be taken to correct this apparent lack of flexibility in the matters can be examined. 
Another problem is that, although the Bill tries to give an applicant access to as much information as possible, a Minister may, by certifying that the disclosure of the contents of a statement of reasons for decisions would be contrary to the public interest, effectively block access by the applicant to the reasons for that decision. This has always been a grey area not only in the legal field but also in the parliamentary field. I will not examine the proposition in depth but will merely express my uneasy feelings and concern about it. I do however recognise that the Bill is quite helpful to the Tribunal itself in the case of such documents as dealt with in clause 36. It seems to me that there is an evenhanded approach here. It seems to be a halfway house between the Privy Council decision in Robinson v. South Australia and also the House of Lords decision in Duncan 
Cammell Laird &amp; Co. in that the Appeals Tribunal can examine the documents and decide for itself how they should be used. 
The honourable member for Bennelong mentioned the question of jurisdiction. I think quite another view can be put on this aspect. The honourable member mentioned the large number of existing appeal bodies. I have not had time to count the number that are on the chart which is before me and which I now show to the House- it is extracted from another report- but it seems to me that, in setting up this Tribunal, we would be wise to hasten slowly. We would be wise to provide that future enactments will state the avenues and reasons for appeal. We would be wise to bring over the appeals from past enactments in an orderly manner instead of in a flood. Consequently I cannot support the concept the honourable member puts in that regard, although I regret that the jurisdiction does seem such a blank area at the moment. I am sure that will very quickly be corrected. 
The Minister has asserted that in the future the ad hoc appeal tribunals will no longer be constituted except in very special circumstances. One can only say how grateful one is as an ordinary citizen that this is going to occur and that one no longer will have to try to find one's way through the maze of appeal tribunals that exist to have grievances noted and determined. Hopefully, once the Bill becomes an Act and the Tribunal is in existence, we will have the chance to transfer the functions to it and to build up a body of administrative law which in the process will also give the indications that may be needed for modifications of procedures and practice in this area. 
I do not think there is any heat in this matter between the parties in the House. I think what is being done is a logical evolutionary process. Many private citizens wish that the legislation had been introduced long ago. I welcome the Bill and hope in the future to see its successful functioning. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I ask: Is it correct to claim that the Medibank program, which is Australia's universal health scheme which will be operational from 1 July, has been radically altered to discriminate against private bed patients in public hospitals in comparison with public bed patients in those hospitals? If so, when and why was this so-called radical change made? 
-I join this debate briefly to support the Bill. During my membership of the Australian Parliament, my greatest job satisfaction in the 26th Parliament has been to be  Deputy Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation and in the 27th Parliament and the 28th Parliament to be  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. Those parliamentary committees have examined many of the matters that are mentioned in the reports of the 2 committees that we have to date. In fact, early in the life of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate,  Mr Justice  Hope was good enough to hold informal discussions with me so that the work of the 2 committees would not be confused and so that they would be looking at different areas. I believe that his Committee of Inquiry produced in rapid time an excellent report. Since then, I have also had discussions with  Mr David  Yencken who has been  Chairman  of the Interim Committee on the National Estate. I believe that he has most capably gone about the job that has been given to that Committee. Consultations such as these between similar bodies are important. 
It is obvious that the Australian Heritage Commission will have a great task of identification of the National Estate and of its preservation, whereas other committees, such as the one or which I serve, are problem oriented in more specific areas. I quite like the statement by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  about the broad aims of this Bill. I think it worth quoting. The Minister said: 
In broad terms, the aims of this Bill are these: 
To set up an Australian Heritage Commission on a broad and representative basis to advise the Government and the Parliament on the condition of the National Estate and how it should be protected; 
To establish and maintain a register of the things that make up the National Estate; 
To require that the Australian Government, its departments and agencies, and those acting on its behalf respect the National Estate and do all that they can to preserve it. 
One finds it very easy to support a Bill with those broad aims. One hopes that the Australian Government, its departments and agencies will indeed show respect for the national estate. 
It had not been my intention to be controversial. It had not been my intention to mention the statement that this Government had inherited a national estate which had been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. Indeed, it has been very much downgraded and neglected when one compares it with the situation in some of the more advanced countries. But I was provoked into mentioning this aspect by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who used it as a vehicle to attack the Government. The honourable member belongs to the National Country Party, the same Party as the Premier of the State that handed out mining permits for Fraser Island and allowed the sand dunes there to be destroyed for the purpose of the mining of the mineral sands. I have not heard the honourable member criticising  Mr BjelkePetersen  on this matter. The same honourable member for Gwydir, when he was Minister for the Interior, had some responsibility for the Northern Territory- I think I am right in saying that as I would not want to do him a disservice. 
I had occasion to look at the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga National Park and to see the problems which arose there because our national estate had been downgraded and neglected. I saw Woolwonga and the damage that was done there by feral animals because of neglect of the national estate. I will not go on with those examples. I had not been going to speak of this aspect until the honourable member for Gwydir started making accusations against the Government Party to which I belong. I warn him that the past and his associates will often catch up with him. Otherwise, I respect the comments he made about this Bill. 
I sense that the very setting up of the Australian Heritage Commission may lead a number of other bodies, such as State governments, to refrain from efforts in the area of our national estate. This Commission cannot operate unless State and local government bodies, industrial organisations and voluntary organisations increase rather than decrease their efforts. Nor should there be any diminishing of effort to try to reduce the adversary principle which exists in the matter of the national estate. I have been shocked at the extreme polarisation of views which occurs in many of these areas- that industries must take the absolute attitude that economic growth and profit are their sole measure of environmental effect, that some of our conservation groups and /or preservation groups are prohibitionists and that they do not want us to enjoy a number of benefits that there are in our national estate. There is too defined a polarisation. I trust that this Commission will provide a vehicle that can solve some of those problems. 
One of my fears also is that so great are the demands for action that it is unlikely that this Government or any other government could supply adequate finance in the short term to satisfy the requirements. For example, report after report, whether parliamentary or otherwise, has emphasised the need for land use councils or bodies. In his second reading speech the Minister referred to the studies of land use patterns which are proceeding. But there are real defects in the land use bodies that exist. They are still not adequate. We still do not have mechanisms which would allow, say, the English style national park to be set up where people can still reside, carry on their occupations, whether they be agricultural or otherwise, and preserve the necessary features of the national estate there. We just do not have the bodies which can handle that sort of thing; nor do we have the sorts of land use bodies that can take on the environmental considerations of commercial activities- for example, forestry activities- and determine how they fit into this scheme. We may in some States have bodies which can deal with the State aspect. But we have no way of controlling or influencing what is done privately in this area. Some of the greatest sins and ravaging of our environment are done in the private areas of land use in destroying a national estate. 
Time and time again we find this problem to which the honourable member for Gwydir referred. To complete an ecological survey of the wetlands alone will take 3 years. I refer in this respect to the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation with regard to the biological survey. This Government has made some start on it. But the Australian Heritage Commission will be unable to define clearly areas which should be preserved for their scientific value, their unique flora and fauna, because information on these ecosystems just does not exist. It worries me that the Commission cannot, on its own, see that these ends are achieved. A lot of lip service is paid to the setting aside of national parks, particularly at State level. At the present time we have nowhere near sufficient national parks to give a representative group of Australian ecosystems. Nowhere in planning national parks at the moment is any notice taken of the economic impact of such parks on surrounding areas, nor is an assessment made of the tourist potential of such areas. Hopefully, the Commission can give some incentive in this field. 
The honourable member for Gwydir mentioned the question of compensation. Here we get into another troublesome area. If historic buildings and sites are to be preserved, the matter of compensation is going to arise. Perhaps we should find incentives other than just compensation for private individuals to ensure that historic sites are preserved. One sees, for example, in the United States of America a number of historic sites that have been handed over to the National Estate by private individuals for the enjoyment of the nation. One would hope that that will occur more and more here under the listing and encouragement given by the Australian Heritage Commission. 
I trust that the Commission will provide a public forum for expression of viewsin many areas of the National Estate. I hope it will be able to deal with the complexity in some aspects of the National Estate. I mentioned the Ayres Rock Mount Olga National Park before. This is a typical example of the conflict of interest that the Heritage Commission may find. In that area there is a conflict between the interests of tourism, the management of an arid environment and the needs of the Aboriginal people, to whom that area has tribal significance, and so on. These are some things that hopefully the Australian Heritage Commission can solve. 
Further, this Commission will report to Parliament. I trust that when the Commission reports to Parliament there will be opportunity for full debate of its reports because, as I pointed out previously, I have fears that the mere setting up of the Commission will lead to a relaxation of effort on the part of other bodies. I believe there may be more polarisation of persons interested, and I believe that only if the Australian Heritage Commission in its reports can meaningfully raise issues that can be debated by this Parliament will we find solutions to the problems that exist. I applaud the introduction of this Bill. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, I bring up a report of the Committee on the operation of the Softwood Forestry Agreements Acts 1967 and 1972, and I move that the report be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I have quite a deal of agreement with most of the remarks that have been made by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  I welcome the introduction of the Ombudsman Bill. I think it is a Bill that is long overdue. I regret that it is being debated in what are almost the closing hours of this parliamentary session because I feel it is a matter that should be fully debated by members of the Parliament. Members of Parliament as a whole have been one of the greatest delaying forces in the introduction of legislation of this type. I think we can illustrate the thinking by quoting a dissenting paragraph of the report from the Statute Law Revision Committee of 1968. One member of that Committee wanted the following paragraph inserted:  . . . the Committee maintains that one of the best guarantees that Parliament and people are in effective contact is the continuing of the expression of grievances through a Member of Parliament. 
The links between Members and their constituents arc strong and the ways they deal with the affairs of their constituents are closer, more intimate, and very much greater in volume than can be achieved by an Ombudsman. 
The Committee believes that it would increase the power of the Executive and reduce the power of Parliament, if grievances were to be put in the hands of yet another department, with the Member simply being a person to transfer grievances to it. 
I am happy that honourable members have now rejected that attitude and have accepted the situation that because of increasing administrative acts, while the member of Parliament will still be able to use his grievance procedure, there is need for something more. I think we all realise that the success of the Ombudsman will in many ways depend on the type of person who is appointed to the position. The honourable member for Bennelong cited the case of New Zealand which has  Sir Guy  Powles a man of wide administrative experience, legal experience and diplomatic experience, who was ideally suited to the role he had to play. In fact, he was consulted by both Canada and the United Kingdom with regard to the role of ombudsman. One hopes that we will be just as lucky in Australia in getting somebody of that stature. 
Another factor that has delayed the setting up of the office of ombudsman is the attitude of the Public Service to the position. In all countries that have our system of government and have our type of Public Service, there has always been a fear in those public services that the ombudsman would disadvantage them, that he would reveal their deficiencies and their human mistakes. Of course, experience in those countries that have an ombudsman of this naure has shown that the reverse is the case. The ombudsman plays a protective role, a clarifying role, for the Public Service against many unfair complaints that are made against it. However, to be seen to do that one feels that the ombudsman should be seen to be entirely separate from the Public Service. I think it is unfortunate and a matter that should receive further consideration that under this legislation the ombudsman has the status of a permanent head and his staff are employed under the Public Service Act. Presumably their promotions will depend on the normal Public Service procedures. If they are engaged in investigations in certain areas where they have to point out defects one wonders whether their future may not be somewhat tarnished and jeopardised by the investigations they make. With experience it may be as well to have some reconsideration of this attitude and to give the ombudsman a much more separate identity from the Public Service with which he will need to have so many dealings. 
The next thing that concerns me is the appointment of an ombudsman and 2  deputy  ombudsmen in respect of the wide number of problems covered by this legislation. Let me quote from a rather old text on ombudsmen by Sawer in 1 964. He said: 
In the federal case, however, the extreme centralisation of some parts of the administration and extreme decentralisation of other parts creates considerable difficulties for maintenance of the regular personal contact between Ombudsman and administration which is essential to his success; probably more travelling would be needed, perhaps a division of functions between a head Ombudsman who stayed in Canberra and a deputy who travelled extensively. Assuming that eventually there were a number of these officers, federal and State, it would be easy for them to establish informal contacts and to refer to each other cases which fell within the other's sphere of administration, or to make joint inquiries where administration was joint. 
In the 11 years that have passed since that was written the administrative structure has changed even more. I think that these problems pointed out by Sawer are aggravated even further. 
I question whether the set-up of an ombudsman with his 2 deputies will be effective on the present scene. Most States have now appointed or are in the process of appointing ombudsmen. We may require deputies in each of the States. It seems to me that the legislation does not necessarily give an avenue for co-operation and for joint consideration of matters in that hazy area between Federal and State administration. I do not believe that either State or Federal bodies give any consideration to the many problems of local government where the citizen feels aggrieved and has no real redress. I accept the Bill as it is. I hope that in these sorts of areas there will be a rethinking I hope that if we get an ombudsman of the stature one would like to see as the first Australian ombudsman he will make a number of these recommendations so that changes are made. 
I have some doubts also whether administrative acts of Ministers should necessarily be exempted in this case. One can appreciate that where they are policy decisions there is reason for exemption, but with straight administrative acts I would expect that it is not impossible for Ministers of the Crown to make mistakes that disadvantage the citizen. Then of course he has the reserve power of certification. I think that the Bill gives the Minister a great deal of latitude 
With  the certification. It is not only a matter of defence or security but also matters which would otherwise be contrary to the public interest. And 'otherwise contrary to the public interest' is an all-embracing expression. I hope that the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  will have something to say on this matter when he moves some amendments in the Committee stage. 
A further matter of concern is the ability of the Ombudsman to report to the House. In the original Bill this is restricted. I understand that amendments will be moved which will give the Ombudsman increased opportunity to make reports at such intervals as seem appropriate and fit. I think that this is wise when we realise that that is the power to publicise and report reveals the issue. I am not certain that this Parliament should not give some consideration to the procedure that is adopted in the United Kingdom where the House has ordered that there be a select committee to examine the reports of the parliamentary commissioner for administration. Members of Parliament who handle grievances, who have agreed to the setting up of the office of an ombudsman to look into acts that they feel should be looked into, also have a right to examine the reports that that ombudsman makes. I commend that as a thought in the gradual, natural evolution of this legislation. 
I am also concerned that under the legislation a person, department or head of a department complained against may be required by the Ombudsman to appear before him in order that he may obtain information about certain acts. I am rather worried that under these circumstances the complainant does not have some right in this matter and although the examination is a private one the complainant should have some opportunity of hearing the version that is placed before the ombudsman. As I say, I mink that this is a piece of legislation that probably warranted discussion by a lot more honourable members than those who are taking part in this debate. Improvements can be made to the legislation, but thank goodness it has started. The Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill was passed only recently. We now have the Ombudsman Bill to deal with. I am prepared to accept the good faith with which it has been brought forward. Obviously the Opposition has accepted this good faith also. I think we all should realise that this is part of an evolutionary process which will show up some of the defects, or what appear to be defects, in the ability of the ordinary individual in the community to obtain his proper rights or at least to have his rights and role examined. I welcome the Bill. I look forward to its operation in the future. 
-I have received from the Senate the following message: 
-Is it the wish of the Committee to adopt the procedure suggested by the Attorney-General? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
-We are in the House at the moment. 

 -Mr Speaker, it is with some humility that I thank the House for the honour that it has paid me in electing me to this position. I thank the honourable member for La Trobe and the Minister for the Media who put forward my name to the House. I am grateful for the words they had to say. I am even more grateful, after having chaired committees of which the Minister for the Media was a member over the years, to find he admits that there may have been occasions when I had to place a rein on his exuberance. I thank you,  Sir, for  your congratulations. I thank the Prime Minister for the words he had to say. Of course I must also thank the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia for their remarks. 
As was indicated, I have been a member of parliament for a good many years. I have seen fortunes wax and wane. I am under no illusions about what happens in parliaments. I am grateful, however, that the Leader of the Opposition made some remarks with regard to the question of parliamentary procedures. I believe that we are facing an era in which changes have to be made. I trust that the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System, which he mentioned, will very soon be able to make worthwhile, sensible and dignified suggestions. To the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia I say that term of office does not worry me. The thing is that the task is ahead and that the task should be properly carried out. I trust that, the House having given me its confidence, I will be able to carry out my duties, to maintain the dignity of the parliamentary institution and to allow the proper conduct of its business, the business for which we are all here. I thank the House. 
-Before calling the Minister, I ask him: Are we taking these 2 amendments together? I understood that there was some general agreement. If there is not, I will have to put separate questions. 
Opposition, as indicated by my friend the honourable member for Bennelong, but oppose amendment No. 4. 
-Order! The Committee is considering clause 9 and circulated amendments Nos 1 (a), 8 and 9 moved by the Attorney-General on 5 June 1 975. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 10. 
Where- 
under an enactment, a person has a power to do an act or thing in the exercise of a discretion or otherwise; 
there is no enactment that prescribes a period within which the person is required to do or refuse to do the act or thing: 
an enactment provides that application may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for the review of decisions made in the exercise of that power; and 
a complaint has been made to the Ombudsman concerning a failure to do the act or thing in the exercise of that power, the Ombudsman, after having investigated the complaint, may, if he is of the opinion that there has been unreasonable delay in deciding whether to do the act or thing, grant to the complainant a certificate certifying, that, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, there has been unreasonable delay in deciding whether to do the act or thing and, if the Ombudsman does so, the person required or permitted to exercise the power, shall, for the purpose of enabling application to be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal under the enactment referred to in paragraph (c), be deemed to have made, on the date on which the certificate is granted, a decision, in the exercise of that power, not to do the act or thing. 
-I suggest that perhaps both amendments could be moved together, by agreement. There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
At the end of sub-clause (2) add 'or 19a'. 
In sub-clause ( 3 ) after ' 1 7 ' add 'or 1 9a  '. 
I need say no more about these amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 24 to 32- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 33. 
Subject to the jurisdiction of the High Court under paragraph 75 (v) of the Constitution, an investigation under this Act, a report or recommendation of the Ombudsman under this Act and an act done by the Ombudsman in connexion with such an investigation- 
shall not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed or called in question in any court; and 
is not subject to prohibition or injunction in any court, except on the ground that it is not authorized by this Act. 
-I think it is a matter of whether you have reached any agreement with the Opposition. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 
-Order! It being half past 10 o'clock p.m., and in accordance with the order of the House of 1 1 July 1 974, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-I have considered the point of order raised by the AttorneyGeneral. The honourable member for Bennelong will appreciate that I allowed him quite a lengthy explanation in speaking to the point of order. I will have to uphold the point of order. As the honourable member for Bennelong says, the Bill deals with a certain category of persons. It deals also with the protection of property of certain organisations. The amendment takes the category of persons and then extends the resultant questions to other than the certain organisations that are contained within the title of the Bill. As such, I would have to rule the amendment out of order. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
-As there is no objection to that course it will be followed. 
In Clause 3 in the definition 'principal officer' omit paragraph (c), substitute the following paragraph:- 
in relation to a public authority other than a Department 
i) if the regulations declare an office to be the principal office in respect of the authority- the person holding, or performing the duties of, that office; or 
in any other case- the person who constitutes, or is acting as the person who constitutes, that authority or, if the authority is constituted by 2 or more persons, the person who is entitled to preside at any meeting of the authority at which he is present;'. 
In Clause 3, omit the definition of 'public authority', substitute the following definition:-  "public authority" means- 
a Department; 
a body corporate, or an unincorporated body, established for a public purpose by, or in accordance with the provisions of, an enactment, other than- 
an incorporated company or association; 
a body that has the power to take evidence on oath or affirmation and is constituted by or includes among its members, a person who is a Justice or Judge of a court established by a law of Australia or a person who has, by virtue of an Act, the same status as a Justice or Judge of such a court; and 
a body that under sub-section ( 1a) or the regulations is not to be taken to be a public authority for the purposes of this Act; 
any other body, whether incorporated or unincorporated, declared by the regulations to be a public authority for the purposes of this Act, being- 
a body established by the GovernorGeneral or by a Minister, or 
an incorporated company in which Australia has a controlling interest; 
the person holding, or performing the duties of, an office established by an enactment, other than such a person who under sub-section (1b) or the regulations is not to be taken to be a public authority for the purposes of this Act; or 
the person performing the duties of an appointment declared by the regulations to be an appointment the holder of which is a public authority for the purposes of this Act, being an appointment made by the Governor-General, or by a Minister, otherwise than under an enactment; '. 
In Clause 3, in the definition 'responsible Minister', omit paragraph (c), substitute the following paragraph: - 
in relation to action taken in relation to a matter for which a public authority other than a Department is responsible- 
if a public authority referred to in paragraph ( b ) of the definition of 'public authority' is responsible for dealing with the matter- the Minister administering the enactment by which, or in accordance with the provisions of which, the public authority is established; 
if a public authority referred to in paragraph (d ) of that definition is responsible for dealing with the matter- the Minister administering the enactment by which the office is established; or 
if a public authority referred to in paragraph (c) or (e) of that definition is responsible for dealing with the matter- the Minister declared by the regulations to be the responsible Minister in respect of that authority, '. 
In Clause 3, after sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following subclauses: (1a) An unincorporated body, being a board, council, committee, sub-committee or other body established by, or in accordance with the provisions of, an enactment for the purpose of assisting, or performing functions connected with, the Defence Force or a public authority shall not be taken to be a public authority for the purpose of this Act, but action taken by the body, or by a person on its behalf, shall, for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to have been taken by the Defence Force or that public authority, as the case may be. ( 1b) A person shall not be taken to be a public authority by virtue of his holding, or performing the duties of- 
an office the duties of which he performs as duties of his employment as an officer or employee of a Department or as a member of the staff of another public authority; 
an office of member of a body; or 
an office established by an enactment for the purposes of a public authority, but any action taken by or on behalf of such a person in his capacity as the person holding or performing the duties of the office concerned shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to have been taken by the Department, body or other public authority, as the case may be.'. 
In clause 3, after sub-clause (5), insert the following subclause: (5a) Where- 
action is taken by a person in the exercise of a power or the performance of a function conferred by or under an enactment; 
the person does not exercise the power or perform the functionbyvirtueofholding,orperformingthe duties of, an office established by, or in accordance with the provisions of, an enactment; 
the person is not an officer of a public authority for the purposes of this Act; and 
the person is not authorized to exercise the power or perform the function by reason of his being a Judge of a court of, or a magistrate of, a State or Territory, the action shall be deemed to have been taken, for the purposes of this Act, by the Department responsible for dealing with the matter in connexion with which the action is taken. '. 
In clause 3, after sub-clause ( 10) add the following subclause: 
On and after the date fixed by proclamation under section 2 of the Defence Force Re-organization Act 1975 as the date of commencement of section 7 of that Act, a reference in this Act to the  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff Committee, shall be read as a reference to the Chief of Defence Force Staff.'. 
In clause 5, page 6, omit sub-clause (4). 
In clause 9, add at the end of the clause the following subclauses: 
A person who is detained in custody is entitled, upon making a request to the person in whose custody he is detained or to another person performing duties in connexion with his detention- 
to be provided with facilities for preparing a complaint under this Act and for enclosing the complaint in a sealed envelope; and 
to have forwarded to the Defence Force Ombudsman, without undue delay, a sealed envelope delivered by him to the person and addressed to the Defence Force Ombudsman. 
Where a sealed envelope is delivered to a person under sub-section (2) for forwarding to the Defence Force Ombudsman, neither the person in whose custody he is detained nor any other person performing duties in connexion with his detention is entitled to open the envelope or inspect any document enclosed in the envelope. '. 
In Clause 1 1, leave out sub-clause (4), substitute the following sub-clause: 
Notwithstanding the provisions of any enactment, a person is not excused from furnishing any information, producing a document or other record or answering a question when required to do so under this Act on the ground that the furnishing of the information, the production of the document or record or the answer to the question- 
would contravene the provisions of any other Act, would be contrary to the public interest or might tend to incriminate him or make him liable to a penalty; or 
would disclose legal advice furnished to a Minister, the Defence Force or a public authority, but his answer to any such question is not admissible in evidence against him in proceedings other than proceedings for an offence against section 35. '. 
In Clause 1 1, leave out sub-clause (6). 
In Clause 16, leave out sub-clause (4), substitute the following sub-clauses: 
For the purposes of an investigation under this Act, an authorized person is entitled to inspect any documents relevant to the investigation kept at premises entered by him under this section, other than documents in respect of which a Minister has furnished a certificate under sub-section 1 1 (3), at a reasonable time of the day arranged with the principal officer of the Defence Force or public authority concerned. (4a) Sub-section (4) shall not be taken to restrict the operation of section 11.'. 
In Clause 20, sub-clause (3), leave out ' 1975', substitute 1976'. 
After clause 20, insert the following clause in Part II: 20a. ( 1 ) The Defence Force Ombudsman may, from time to time, submit to the Minister, for presentation to the Parliament, a report of the operations of the Defence Force Ombudsman during a part of a year or a report concerning a particular investigation or particular investigationscarried out under this Act. 
The ombudsman shall not, in a report submitted to the Minister under sub-section (1), refer to an investigation in relation to which he has made a report in accordance with sub-section 17 (2) unless he is of the opinion that action that is adequate and appropriate in the circumstances has been taken with respect to the matters and recommendations included in that report. 
The Minister shall cause a report submitted to him under sub-section (1) to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after its receipt by the Minister. 
Where the Defence Force Ombudsman refers in a report submitted under sub-section (1) to an investigation made by him under this Act, the Defence Force Ombudsman shall not, in referring to the investigation, set out opinions that are, either expressly or impliedly, critical of the Defence Force, a public authority or a person unless the Defence Force Ombudsman has complied with sub-section 10 (5) in relation to the investigation. '. 
In Clause 33, sub-clause ( 1 ) leave out ' 19 or 20 ', substitute 19, 20 or 20a'. 
In Clause 34, sub-clause (1) add at the end of paragraph (c) 'or who is an authorised person'. 
In Clause 34, sub-clause (2) leave out 'except in the performance of his duty as an officer, '. 
In Clause 34, after sub-clause (2), insert the following subclause: (2a) Sub-section (2) does not prevent an officer- 
from making a record of, or divulging or communicating to any person, information acquired by him in the performance of his duties as an officer and for purposes connected with the performance of the functions of the Defence Force Ombudsman under this Act; or 
from divulging or communicating information to a person- 
if the information was furnished by a member of the Defence Force or an officer of a public authority in the performance of his duties as such member or officer- with the consent of the principal officer of the Defence Force or authority or of the responsible Minister; or 
if the information was furnished by a person otherwise than as set out in sub-paragraph (i)- with the consent of the person who furnished the information. '. 
After clause 35, insert the following clause: - 35a. Civil proceedings do not lie against a person in respect of loss, damage or injury of any kind suffered by another person by reason of- 
the making of a complaint to the Defence Force Ombudsman under this Act; or 
the making of a statement to, or the furnishing of a document or information to, a person, being an officer within the meaning of section 34, for the purposes of this Act.'. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clauses, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The table read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197508264_54_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_55_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_55_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508264_55_2.jpg"></graphic>

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 120. The Department of Health quoted the British experience which suggests a correlation between patient contribution and prescription volume. 

<graphic href="096131197508264_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

121. The relevance of the British experience to Australian conditions is suggested by the initial reaction to the increase in the local patient contribution from SO cents to $1.00 in November 1971. The number of prescriptions dispensed under the Scheme in December 1971 -January 1972 was 7 021 000, a decrease of 6.7 per cent compared with the 7 522 000 prescriptions dispensed in the comparable period of 1970-71. By contrast, pensioner prescriptions, which were free throughout, increased by 3.4 per cent, that is from 3 513 399 m December 1970-January 1971 to 3 631 974 in December 1971-January 1972. 
There are 2 possible minuses but these need not take place. Both flow from the possible removal of prescriptions costing less than $1.50 from the pharmaceutical benefits list. If those drugs are removed as they were in 1971 they become private prescriptions and the price to the patient is pushed into the $2 to $3 bracket because the private dispensing fee, coupled with the different markup on private prescriptions- 50 per cent instead of 33  lA  per cent- pushes the cost into this more expensive bracket. I ask the Minister whether he will look at this aspect. I suggest to him that he devise ways and means of seeing that the pharmaceutical benefits that come to a total of less than $1.50 remain on the pharmaceutical benefits list. Ultimately it is cheaper to the public. It might mean a little less money in the pockets of my colleagues and myself, but I am interested in why the pharmaceutical benefits list is provided. It is to enable those who would otherwise be deprived of receiving the benefit of certain important drugs because they could not afford them. That is the prime objective. I would like the Minister to study that suggestion carefully and see whether ways and means could be devised to have those drugs that total under $ 1.50 remain on the pharmaceutical list. 
Another minus which could possibly flow is that if these drugs are not available there could be influence upon the doctors to prescribe a 'free' drug if possible rather than for the patient to pay for a more expensive one, even though that drug may be more expensive and not the most suitable drug to use. Before I conclude I think it is opportune and proper that I should make a few comments on the matter raised by the honourable member for Murray who criticised the Government for paying an increase to cover underpayment of previously dispensed prescriptions by the pharmaceutical profession. I point out incidentally that this Government has given far more palatable increases to the profession than the honourable member's Party ever did. Instead of 8c, 9c and miserable amounts like that, we now find reasonable increases that are more consistent with current costs. 
It is arguable whether the question of goodwill should be taken into account in establishing the costs of a pharmacy operation. We did not accept it. The evidence has been put to us rather forcibly and effectively by the people who do the book work for the pharmacists, the accountants. These are the people who demonstrated to the Government that it was totally incorrect to base a rationalisation of cost in the pharmaceutical industry on a disputable, arguable and figurative calculation. It is for these reasons that I utterly refute what the honourable member for Murray has said. I support this Bill for an increase in the patient's contribution to costs of pharmaceutical benefits from $1 to $1.50. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. The Leader of the Opposition has stated that his Party in government would sell the Pharmaceutical Corporation which the Government would operate only at a loss. Can the Minister inform the House of the effect of the proposal of the Leader of the Opposition? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Order! The Committee will come to order. 
Under this Bill the whole of the defence expenditure, including all current expenditure, could be chargeable against the Loan Fund up to the limit of the total deficit in the Budget. Of course, the total deficit in the Budget is likely to be far higher than the total of the defence expenditure, so that limit does not really have any practical significance. But what the Government is doing- I do not want to describe it as underhand because it does not seem to me that the Government has really made its position clear in the matter- is in some way giving itself the opportunity of charging the whole of the defence expenditure against the Loan Fund and thus fiddling the accounts. It is open to the Government to do that under this Bill; it would not be open to the Government to do that if this Bill were not passed. So I am worried about it. I am worried about it particularly when I look at the implications of section 81 of the Constitution. No doubt the Minister will be able to tell us more about these things in a moment. 
One of the peculiar effects of this legislation may be that it will limit the power of the Senate later to call the Government to account by refusing Supply. Before the Bill passes through the Senate I think that that aspect of it will have to be very carefully considered by honourable senators. Of course, they would not want to have limited in any way their power to act in the future against a government which, to some of us, seems to be misbehaving, financially and otherwise, in such a terrible fashion. So let us just ask the Minister for some explanation of these things. Why is it necessary for clause 4 to be included in the Bill? It does not seem to be necessary because the money will be paid to Consolidated Revenue anyway and it cannot be taken out of Consolidated Revenue except by an appropriation. Why is it that the Bill seeks to give a facility to charge the whole of the defence expenditure against the Loan Fund? 
If the real reason for the inclusion of clause 4 in the Bill is to satisfy the conditions of the Financial Agreement, may I point out to the Minister in all respect that the Government was not so sensitive about satisfying the conditions of the Financial Agreement when it proposed to raise either $2,000m or $4,000m for temporary purposes, because in that circumstance the Government thought, whether rightly or wrongly, that its mere avowal that the moneys were for temporary purposes would in some way take the matter outside the ambit of the financial agreement. If that is so, why would not the mere avowal that the money is for defence purposes similarly take it outside the ambit of the Financial Agreement? Many things need to be explained by the Minister in regard to this Bill. I am just wondering whether there might not be a little bit of concealed subterfuge, even perhaps concealed treachery, in its seemingly innocent clauses. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197508275_46_10.jpg"></graphic>

As for expenditure- and unhappily I will not have time to go into this- I think it is not the quantity of expenditure which matters so much currently as the quality of it. We know that there has been immense waste on the part of the Government. Expenditures have been undertaken for which there is no real productive return. We know that there have been abuses of the money in the Treasury. AU of these things are true. We should be concentrating on improving the quality of expenditure and cutting out the waste and the extravagance. We should remember that private enterprise, which at the present moment is faltering because of the Government's POliCY, is still to a great extent dependent upon public expenditure. That being so, we should be ruthless in the future in cutting back public expenditure when there is a competition for real resources with private enterprise. Private enterprise must receive preference. 
For the present we need to maintain our capital works and to improve their quality. This is another of the avenues in which the Budget falls down. It will be said: 'If you are going to reduce charges and taxes, if you are going to maintain expenditure, what about the deficit?' At first glance that is a reasonable criticism, but let me point out that at the present moment the deficit is not of prime importance. It is true that the deficit adds to the money supply, but if the money supply becomes too great and if it is desired to cut it back, it is easy to do this by the simple expedient of increasing what is known as the statutory reserve deposits- the SRD. If by reason of a deficit the money supply becomes too big- this could happen- the increase in the statutory reserve deposits will cure the trouble, and the money supply does not enter into it. I believe that as soon as the economy recovers we should go from a deficit to a surplus and we should once again go back to normal financing. But at the present moment, as I have said, it does not seem to me that the deficit is of prime importance, particularly as there lies in our hands the instrument to correct any over-supply of money by increasing statutory reserve deposits. 
There are 2 things I have to say in passing. Firstly, I believe that one of the prime mistakes of the Government has been the tariff slash. This was ill considered, ill conceived and has had disastrous consequences. Any tariff changes that have to be made should be made gradually. We now have to retrieve the position of Australian industry which has been undermined and invalidated by Government policies. Some reconsideration of the Government's tariff policy is necessary if we are to have any kind of Budget equilibrium combined with stability, full employment and an increase in productivity. The second thing that I would say is this: We have to make certain that the pressure of wage increases does not overwhelm us. The irony of the situation is that the present rate of money or real wages could easily be maintained without inflation if only we could get rid of the unreasonable restrictions on productivity which we see all around us imposed by industrial action through the trade unions. This is happening in Australia It is happening on a bigger scale in Great Britain. If only we could get rid of the strikes, the industrial dislocation, the planned stoppages, the feather-bedding and the unreasonable impediments to production it would be possible to maintain the full present wage without inflation, and it would be possible to increase productivity and to go on to higher standards of living for the whole Australian community. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197508286_97_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508286_98_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508286_99_0.jpg"></graphic>

Australian Bureau of Statistics 
Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
<para pgwide="yes">NOTE. Inquiries concerning these statistics maybe made in Canberra by telephoning  Mr C.  H. Squair on 52 791 1 extension5331 or, in each State Capital, by telephoning the office of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 

<graphic href="096131197508286_99_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508286_100_0.jpg"></graphic>

Australian Bureau of Statistics Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Note: Inquiries concerning these statistics may be made in Canberra by telephoning  Mr B.  O'Loghlin on 49 02 1 1 extension 4 1 5 or, in each State Capital, by telephoning the office of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-I allowed the honourable member the latitude of answering a disorderly interjection but I invite him to return to the matter before the Committee. 
I think I have said enough,  Mr Chairman.  There are no more interjections. Obviously the honourable member for Wilmot is delighted with the answers he has received. I await the Minister's response with as much anticipation as I can possibly muster. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for Health is supplementary to questions which he answered last week. As it has been reported that customers of Fawnmac Industries Pty Ltd have been directing their business elsewhere in protest against the Australian Government's decision to purchase the company, can the Minister assure the House that Fawnmac Industries is operating satisfactorily? 
-No point of order arises. 
There is no question that industrial disputes were partly responsible for the high unemployment figures released last month. The building disputes in Victoria undoubtedly played a significant part in those figures. I said that at the time; I repeat it now. I say further that there is a need for union responsibility. In fact, the trade union movement is based on the premise that individual unions will not take strike action without consulting the central trade union body if a proposed strike action would affect the livelihood or the employment of other trade unionists. I hope that this principle will be more closely followed in future months than it has been in recent years. I well recall the time when it was followed to the letter. I believe that there is a heavy responsibility on trade union leadership today, more so than at any time in the last decade, to act responsibly in the national interest and in the long term interest of the members of trade unions. 
Of course wage restraint has some problems. Of course wage indexation principles present problems in respect of individual employees. But we are seeking to convince the trade union movement of the worth of wage indexation. We are putting our views frankly and forcefully before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This is more than the Government of which the honourable member for Corangamite was a member ever did. It is much more than he did when he was the Minister Assisting the Minister for Labor and National Service. That Government adopted a vacillating approach before the arbitration tribunals. It lacked the courage to do what needed to be done. 
-I remind the honourable gentleman that while interjections may be intelligent they are also disorderly. 
It is appropriate to include in  Hansard  that petrol prices in Mt Isa have increased over and above the 16c a gallon mentioned by my Leader, by another 5.7c a gallon. At Birdsville the price of petrol a gallon has increased by an additional 24.8c. This follows the abolition of the petrol prices equalisation scheme. 
We express concern that no longer are established procedures and practices to be continued. We accuse the Labor Government of taking the easy way out and of hiding its responsibilities behind the barricades of statutory authorities to shield it from the just demands of the public. The Government has created monsters which have no concern for service and which forever are concerned only with balance sheets. Where will this end? Already the drums of the Postal Commission are rumbling that a rise in the price of an ordinary postage stamp to 20c will not be unreasonable because of the amount of money that that Commission will lose if unions do not cooperate. Trade unions, many of which are irresponsible, are the fourth arm of government in Australia since December 1972. It is unreasonable to divorce the just demands of a service factor in postal and telecommunications matters. The Government has a solemn duty to fund part of any communications deficit because those who pay taxes and live outside the metropolitan areas can in all justice expect the national government to contribute to their welfare. 
There was no need for these mammoth increases in postal charges. They will be a contributor to economic hardship for businesses and professions and will strike right at the heart of the rural dweller who has to have his newspaper posted to him, who has to pay his accounts by mail and who has to ring up his orders. He is not like the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  who can ride around his electorate before breakfast on a push bike. The rural area is being victimised and throttled. However, we hope that time is on the side of the rural dweller and that before bis position is beyond saving we will have a change of government which will have its priorities right. The latest public opinion poll figures prove beyond doubt that the Government is not trusted. It has caused the greatest gloom in the political history of this country. It has glazed the truth. We, the ordinary citizens, are left to lament the nation's economic excesses after decades of economic ease and public sanity. 
In the Budget the Government had a glorious opportunity to remove the festering suspicions permeating the nation but it did not grasp the nettle It has become the herald of despair. What we term small business has not even rated a mention. The Government has done nothing to remove the iniquitous tax on the retained profit of small business. It has paid lip service to company taxation with a reduction of  2Vi  per cent at a time when companies have all time low profits and are paying very little, if any, tax anyway. We believe in private enterprise, the owner-driver concept, which has been the real developing thrust in Australia's progress up the economic ladder. Overhead costs with wages ever spiralling, postal and telecommunication charges and fuel and freight costs increasing have made the earning of adequate reward almost impossible. Obviously this is all part of the grand dream, the sinister plot. 
The socialist planners realise that their iniquitous philosophies have no appeal to the level headed Australian who is interested in developing this country and improving the quality of life. Consequently they have resorted to artful and deceitful devices to strangle the people into submission by throttling their financial bloodstream, and small business is the bloodstream of economic activity in this country- not socialisation. Indirect taxes in the Budget plus increased postal and telephone charges are estimated to add 17 per cent to overall consumer prices in the December quarter of 1975. No wonder we on this side of the House are worried; no wonder we are concerned about the future of Australian society. No doubt these increases will have a continuing effect on the wage price spiral if wage earners receive savage increases based on increases in the raw consumer price index, including the effects of indirect tax increases. If this is the case, the CPI increase will lead through wage indexation to wage increases which will add to costs at a time when business profits are already low and will tend to be passed on in higher prices. This will lead back to higher wages through wage indexation and so the spiral will continue. No brake is applied anywhere in the system. 
Small business which will bear the full force of cost increases must be encouraged for social and economic reasons. Probably the two most important functions performed by small business are providing a means of entry into business for new industries and new entrepreneurial talent and providing the basis for new large companies which will grow to challenge and stimulate established large firms. 
When finance is available to help the private sector, small business in industry and commerce has generally received unequal treatment. No doubt potential borrowers often have difficulty in demonstrating to financial institutions that they are a viable proposition or have reasonable prospects of continuing to be or becoming a profitable undertaking. However, the history of Australia shows that many undertakings have succeeded due to the get-up-and-go philosophy of the owner-operator, even though he has been given sewing machine terms- threepence down and threepence a week. There should be more of it for the young Australians who want to get out and develop Australia. Relief from the savage rates of tax on retained profits in private companies would provide, an internal source of finance but profits are probably accumulated too slowly in the early stage of development to provide sufficient finance to accommodate the pressing needs of the very fast rate of growth in production which is sometimes demanded by the market. Tax also has to be paid by the individual member of a small business while death duties cause special problems in family firms which are usually small businesses. The requirement to pay a substantial proportion of the value of the business in death duties makes it most difficult for the father to pass on the business intact to his descendants unless long term arrangements for financing the required cash flow are made or evasive measures are taken. 
As we on this side of the House have done on many occasions, I make a plea to the Australian Government to withdraw from levying death duties, the most savage and iniquitous of duties. The amount of revenue raised this way by the Government is small but the cost of collecting it is high. The benefit of this money to the taxpayer involved would be of great significance. Management expertise is a problem with small business and I like the idea adopted by the Queensland Department of Primary Industry with its extension services. The Department allocates a special sum of money to allow officers to go out and acquaint farmers with new techniques. I believe it would be an excellent incentive if the Government created a secretariat of established people who would be able to go out and advise small businesses on the best way to conduct their enterprises. Of course, we cannot expect much better than we have got from the present Government which is led by a Prime Minister who in his own arrogant and egotistical style on a recent television program told the truth for once when he described himself as an armchair economist. This is the Prime Minister of this country! It was rather strange to have a statement like this from the Prime Minister but at least he was truthful for once. 
Small business must be encouraged. In a climate where the usual approach of the community is to be destructive, we on this side of the House advance positive policies to help in this area because we are concerned at the viability of small business. We fund trade union colleges so why cannot we fund a secretariat to help small businesses? It would be doing exactly the same thing in a different environment. We are on the side of helping private enterprise in this respect, just as we agreed to help the leadership of trade union organisations in that way. We castigate the Government for the Up service it is paying to overcome unemployment. How better could it be done than by encouraging small business? 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition, because if the policies of the Labor Party are to be carried out in the full they Will sound the death knell of the Australian quality of life, which already has been flattened into the dust. It Will be our job to pick it up from there. In particular, rural industry has not had any consideration whatsoever from those who occupy the treasury benches. I was most disappointed to read of the recent statement by  Senator Wriedt.  He is the man who promises the lot, but he is yet to convince Cabinet of anything. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197509045_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Is the honourable member seeking leave to have it incorporated? 
-In accordance with standing order 226 the Committee will first consider the Second Schedule of the Bill. 
-Order! I have previously asked the honourable member for the Northern Territory to cease interjecting. I suggest that he do so. 
-Order! I have to inform the Committee that we have present in the gallery this evening members of the Swedish Parliament's Standing Committee on Social Affairs (Welfare) led by  Mr Goran  Karlsson,  Chairman  of the Committee. On behalf of the Committee I extend a very warm welcome to the members of that Standing Committee. 
-Order! The honourable member will come to order or I will give him a little time. 
I turn to the question of gags and guillotines. I know that that is a matter which has bothered the Parliament for years. Again I refrain from being partisan about it except to state that the statistics of recent years show that the McMahon Government did not use the guillotine once in its final year. The Minister for Services and Property has told me that that meant that honourable members had to sit right through the night. The honourable members for Ryan rightly said that this is an improper thing to ask of members of Parliament when they are supposed to be efficient and on the job. The number of gags moved from 68 in 1972 to 103 in 1973 and to 1 14 in 1974. 
The Australian people are sceptical of their politicians. For some reason they do not regard them as doing a serious job of work. At the same time they put their faith in them. They elect them every 3 years and they wish us to have a system of parliamentary democracy. If we are seriously to place parliamentary democracy in the hands of elected members of Parliament we should certainly give them better accommodation, not sharing rooms two and three to a room, interrupting each other by way of telephone calls, interviews and other things, with inefficient systems of work and a lack of staff support. It is time the Australian people realised the difficulties under which members of Parliament labour arid the difficulties under which they confront increasing inroads on their time, increasing slabs of power in legislation, and increasing delegation to statutory corporations. There is need for a reallocation of the work of parliamentarians, for more committees of the Parliament and less social welfare and diplomatic work in the community by parliamentarians unless further aid is forthcoming. 
-Is there any objection to that procedure being followed? There being no objection, I shall allow that procedure to be followed. 
That the requested amendment be made, with the following modifications: 
omit 'at such earlier time as legislation is passed', substitute 'on such earlier date as legislation comes into operation'; 
at the end of the requested amendment add the following sub-clause: 
Sub-section (1) does not affect a liability to pay, or the recovery of, any amount of charge in respect of employment that occurs while this Act is in operation and any such amount shall be paid and may be recovered as if sub-section ( 1) had not been enacted.'. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The documents read as follows)- 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.40 p.m. until the ringing of the bells. 

-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-When I first saw the subject of this discussion of a matter of public importance I thought that the House might have the opportunity for a full-blooded debate on science and research in Australia. But what have we had? The debate was restricted first of all by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  who was the first  speaker,  to 2 areas- the National Health and Medical Research Council and the Australian Research Grants Committee. The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who was the second  speaker  on the Opposition side, concentrated on the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. This reveals their lack of understanding of the history of science and research in Australia. 
The honourable member for Murray talked about the gradual improvement that went on in scientific research under the previous Government. It was very gradual indeed. I can remember carrying out projects funded by grants from the NHMRC at a time when the Liberals were in government and I can remember what pittances they were and how much encouragement was given. The matter of public importance is a very wide one. Those honourable members who have brought the discussion forward have shown a complete and utter lack of any appreciation of the other things that have been done that provide the basis for research. What about the progress in general terms? Have they looked at what has been done in the field of tertiary education in the last 3 years? The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  would know that academics in tertiary institutions rely on the proper functioning of the teaching side for them to be able to carry out their independent research; they rely on the facilities that are used to produce the circumstances which enable proper research to be carried out. There has been a considerable advance in this field. No longer do researchers have to do as I did and be tucked away in a little ten by twelve room with one electric fight globe trying to carry out research. Now they have a decent basis of buildings and facilities in these tertiary institutions. What about questions of the environment, which was a ragtag attachment to a Minister who had a number of things to deal with? 
Through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will talk in terms of the matter of public importance which the honourable member for Murray put forward and did not speak to. If he wants to put forward matters of public importance he should speak to what is contained in them and not just on narrow matters. What about the environment- the impetus that has been given to research in this field and to the biological research in a number of other fields? 
This is something that was ignored by the last Government. Even if we cut expenditure in half we would be streets ahead of the situation that existed in 1972. An attack was made on the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The Ministry of Science in the last 3 years has brought scientific research into a great deal of practical application to the community. Mention was made of the CSIRO. I suggest that if honourable members want to talk about this body they should do so during the Estimates debate. They will find that there has been a pretty substantial increase in this field. They will find that this Government has given a pretty substantial stimulus to the CSIRO in many areas of research. 
The honourable member for McPherson mentioned the brouhaha that went on in regard to the transfer of sections of the CSIRO concerned with energy. What he did not say, of course, was that due to the stimulus that has been given in this area solar energy researchers in the CSIRO are recognised as equal to anyone in the world. They are leaders in this field and are respected as such. The CSIRO can claim that this is happening because of the stimulus that has been given. I was concerned with an investigation in a previous Parliament which was looking at a biological survey. This investigation had not been carried out under the previous Government. It is now a survey that is being well stimulated by finances from this Federal Government. And the Opposition says we have failed in science and research and its administration. The trouble is that members of the Opposition restrict themselves to narrow areas the whole time. The introduction by the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs of standards for consumers is very much a scientific research project where standards are being laid down so that consumers can know the quality of things that they are receiving 
So I could go on talking about the number of other general areas in which stimulus has been given. We heard criticism that the Government's in-house research activities were being looked after at the expense of others. The honourable member for McPherson mentioned the joy of boards of directors in various areas. A lot of the countries the Opposition is comparing Australia with get substantial private endowment from such boards of directors. By golly there is not too much private endowment in the research area from large companies in Australia. But private enterprise will accept the benefits of the research that is carried out. Nor do State governments play their proper role in stimulating research in either government of other institutions. Places like the Baker Institute and the Walter and Eliza Hall- those sorts of institutes- have had to battle over the years to get any assistance from successive Liberal-Country Party governments. 
We have not heard much about this basic argument of economic restraint from honourable members opposite. Do they accept it? If they are going to give this undertaking for increased expenditure are they going to abandon economic restraint? The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has already explained what has occurred with the triennial funding of the 2 organisations, the National Health and Medical Research Council and the Australian Research Grants Committee, which have been mentioned by the supporters of this matter of public importance. The Minister has explained the problem that occurred because of this calendar year aspect. He promised that there will be a review and a discussion when the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  returns. I think he has taken a proper attitude in that way in giving that understanding and not being like honourable members opposite who stab their executives and their officers in the back. The Minister has accepted that the proper person to talk about this problem with is the Treasurer. I am sure that when the Treasurer returns and the Minister for Health and the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs have discussions with him and point out an anomaly that has occurred- we accept that there is an apparent anomaly that needs examination- that the fears of those concerned in the field of medical and scientific research will be proved groundless. 
The triennial budgets have been restrained. They have not been reduced as has been suggested. A stimulus to the scientific research field has been given since the Labor Government came into power by its promotion of so many other institutions than those narrow ones that honourable members opposite have put forward. I appreciate their concern for those 2 committees. I have a great deal of sympathy for that. But I do not think that they do the case any good by magnifying it in the way they do and by making an attack on the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs. He is not here. The Minister for Health can quite capably handle the problem. It is part of his responsibility. To ask for reconsideration in the absence of the Treasurer is so foolish. I think the matter put forward is ridiculous to be raised at this stage. Common sense will prevail and the researchers in the field will find that the drastic results they expected will not occur. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)The discussion is concluded. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197509104_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

Recent events have highlighted the problems of the Australian waterfront. 
The rising cost of idle time due to a slow down in trade, and the alarming effects on exporters of increased freight rates have made it a national problem. 
Accordingly, the Liberal and National Country Parties have decided to urge the formation of an all Party Parliamentary Committee of both Houses to investigate the stevedoring industry and bring forward recommendations by 30 June 1976, when the existing Temporary Provisions legislation expires. 
We believe that the issue should be approached on a bipartisan basis. The important thing is to get the best solution possible, and we trust the Government will respond to our suggestion. 
That was a genuine attempt to offer constructive help in solving one of the nation's most difficult, most intractable industrial relations problems. I think the Minister would agree with that description. It is a matter of some regret to the Opposition that the Government has not responded to our offer. As I understand it from the Minister today, the Government has come up with the proposal that it will investigate in depth and with some speed the problems facing the industry. So far as it goes, this is welcomed by the Opposition. Honourable members on this side of the chamber will be seeking to see what contribution we may be able to make in this respect, even though the Government did not see fit to accept our proposal for a committee. 
In considering the future of the industry I urge that 2 principles be kept in mind. The first is that the most efficient elements of the industry must not be called upon to pay for the most inefficient. That would merely delay the change to the most effective and cheapest way of handling cargo. The second principle is that there must be some degree of flexibility in permitting people to come into and go out of the industry, to cope with the variations in trade which I mentioned a moment ago. The smaller ports have already moved in this direction. I believe that it is essential, in the light of the figures which I cited earlier, that some similar arrangements be made in the major ports. This problem is now urgent. Australian exporters cannot be expected to bear the burden of the rate of increase in costs which we have seen over recent years and the galloping increase in costs which we have seen over the last 6 months. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.13)-When the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott was discussing the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs he mentioned the wastages that he had observed and spoke about the great number of bureaucrats handling Aboriginal affairs. He mentioned something about inefficiency in the Department. The honourable member for Mallee (Mr Fisher),  when first addressing the Committee, spoke along much the same lines. I have heard all these accusations previously but I have never had a specific case pointed out to me. As a matter of fact, in all my associations with the members of the Department I have found them dedicated and efficient people. Most of them were performing thenwork long before the Labor Government came to power. But I am prepared to accept the suggestion made by the 2 honourable members that in setting up the Department of Aboriginal Affairs perhaps a few mistakes were made in the personnel selected. Maybe there is some inefficiency. I believe that could really be sheeted home as the responsibility of the LiberalCountry Party coalition when it was in government. 
I support the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I am pleased to note that they provide a 30 per cent increase on last year's appropriation. I believe that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  should be congratulated for being able to convince the Cabinet and the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  that such a large appropriation is necessary during a period when most of our departments are cutting back on their expenditures. In my opinion it shows the determination of this Government to give justice and equality to our Aboriginal population. It does not surprise me that the Minister has been able to do this. He showed his compassion for the Aboriginal problem long before he was a Minister of this Government. I have travelled hundreds of miles with the Minister to look at Aboriginal situations in many parts of Australia. This was carried out at the Minister's own expense. There is no doubt that his appointment as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs received endorsement by our Aboriginal population. 
I am a little disappointed that this large appropriation has not received the electoral support that I consider it is worthy of receiving. It seems to me that many sections of our community, when seeking financial assistance and unable to obtain aU they want, say that we should take the money from the Aboriginal appropriation. Yet I have never heard anyone deny that the gap between the average real living standards of Aboriginal life and the life of others in the community is not a real and widening gap. I have never heard anyone deny that the relationship of power or authority between us and the Aborigines in the main has always been with the European population having authority over the Aborigines. 
It is unfortunate that because Aborigines are a small ethnic minority- I believe that it is projected that they will represent 2 per cent of our population by the end of the century- they will remain under this disability for many years. I can see that this will have a detrimental effect on our relationship. Looking at the problem from our position I suppose we would not be very concerned but if one were to look at our relationship from the point of view of the Aborigines one would understand that this relationship must have an effect on the Aboriginal population, especially on a young Aborigine going to school with his companions. In my opinion this type of relationship must corrode old Aboriginal attitudes to living. 
I believe that the problem, as we become more affluent, will be that we will have to make a greater redistribution to the Aborigines. This situation will be the prime condition of their livelihood. No one could deny that this greater redistribution is well justified. But the unfortunate aspect of this approach is that it seems to generate a greater resentment towards Aboriginal welfare. Because of this I think it should be remembered that the circumstances in which Aborigines now live were not caused by Aborigines; I believe that they are the end result of our own settlement, our own investments and the effect that our communications and transport had on Aboriginal society. I believe that these things have forced Aborigines into a position of involuntary dependence. For this reason alone I believe that this appropriation is justified and that we have an obligation, a responsibility, to lessen the hurt to and to lighten the burden of Aborigines. 
I have had the opportunity of examining Aboriginal life styles in many parts of Australiacentral Australia, Queensland, Palm Island Western Australia and of, course, in the large Aboriginal population in my own electorate. One thing that I can say is that nowhere have I found an Aborigine who wanted to live a life style in which some elements of our way of life did not exist. Because of this fact, I believe that we have reason to expect a degree of co-operation from the Aborigines themselves. It does not matter how we look at these matters; we cannot expect any great credibility in world forums, especially those where the developing nations are involved, if we allow Aborigines to live in the conditions in which they live at present. Aborigines are human beings. When one is examining their situation, they keep referring to this point. They continue to remind us that they are human beings. It is an indictment of the European population that Aborigines should feel it necessary to remind us that they are human beings. The husbands and wives and the families to whom I have spoken seek the same things for their family groups as any one of us would seek for our families; that is,  education, decent housing and health services, to name a few. 
Let me refer to the situation that I found at the end of the 1973 floods when the Aborigines at Wilcannia were flooded out as a result, I suppose, to some extent of the weirs and water schemes constructed lower down the river which caused a bank-up of water which flooded the grounds on which Aborigines had camped for many years. Most of their houses were under water. We had to make an appeal to the Government for assistance. Then we rigged up tents. When the Aborigines were living in tents the situation was much better than it was before the floods. Unfortunately a promise was made to the Aborigines that permanent houses would be built. The problem is not an easy one. By the time we returned to them, the Aborigines were very disappointed and a good deal of resentment was generated against the Government. 
At Wilcannia, we have joined in many discussions with Aborigines and their committees, including their housing committee. I was surprised that the Aborigines not only allowed us to express our opinion on what the remedy should be but also went to a lot of trouble to point out where we went wrong. Instead of my convincing the Aborigines that they should accept something else, they convinced me that what they wanted to do was quite right. I accept the view of the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that the road ahead is not easy but every one concerned will benefit if our critics realise that the intentions of this Government are as honourable as the cause of the Aboriginals is just. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FISHER (Mallee)-Mr  Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the honourable member seeking leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard? 
All we are insisting on is that Australia gets at least a fair deal out of it. If Woodside-Burmah wants to stay on the coast and drill for gas and produce gas, well and good. But the areas it cannot decently handle, that is cannot explore to a reasonable ratio of holes to acres should be given to other companies in conjunction with the Government of Australia to let them carry out the exploration. The Opposition policy is working exclusively for Woodside-Burmah and is making sure that that company with a puny drilling program of 5 holes a year, keeps its grip on 70 000 square miles of sea. That is the Party policy, and shame on the Party for it. When the Minister outlined his course of action to get approval of the High Court for the Bill to give this Parliament sovereignty- large elements of the Opposition agree with that- Opposition members berated Mm for it and tried to disparage his policy. 
This Government has brought to Australia a decent minerals and energy policy. We have been in office for 32 months, and in 32 months a Party cannot achieve everything. The point is that a good start has been made and the Minister has put the development of these policies on a course which no Liberal-National Country Party government will be able to turn back at any time, because the Australian people will not tolerate the selling out of Australia's interests to foreigners or to anybody else. It is time that the people of Australia got a fair share of the national wealth and that these projects were developed sensibly under the right auspices and with the right sovereignty. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! No point of order arises. 
The achievements of this Minister need only to be compared with those in the mining area under the previous Government. In the 1960s and early 1970s, 34 major mining projects were commenced at a total cost of $6,000m. What have we seen since December 1972? The only significant mine to come into operation is the phosphate project costing $40m. This was discovered in the mid-1960s. To prove that the resources are still available, we need only to look at the projects which have been deferred or lost. They include 5 uranium projects, 3 coal projects, 3 bauxitealumina projects and a number of others. There is a total of nearly 20 projects which have been lost as a result of the policies of this Minister. We have seen a virtual collapse of drilling in the search for and development of oil and natural gas. There were 322 wells drilled in 1969 as against 16 wells so far this year. That is the magnificent achievement of this Minister. In fact, there were no new production wells drilled in the first quarter of this year. The number of oil drilling rigs in operation is down to three whilst fourteen remain inactive. Furthermore, the vast decline in seismic survey miles covered since 1973 paints a gloomy prospect of any reversal of this trend. 
The future is filled with uncertainty because the Minister continues to conceal his real plans for the industry. But we all know what they are. He wants to buy out every cent of private ownership. We only have to recall the events of the loans affair to understand this. What an attempt at deception that was, from the very first events of drafting the Executive Council minute which was supposed to authorise this deal. The parties to that minute chose to ignore the Loan Council. They chose to ignore its advisers, including the Reserve Bank of Australia. What of the loan itself, a loan for an amount of $4,000m? If it were left to the Minister, it may have been double that amount. Repeated attempts to have the Minister and his Government divulge the details of that loan were met with a dumb response. What is this Government that preaches open government? When we finally extracted sketchy details of the loan, there were conflicting statements of the purpose for which the money was to be used. 
What were the purposes? We had a number of statements on the matter. On 23 April of this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that the loans would not be used for the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. On 8 May, the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said that the Petroleum and Minerals authority would have the highest priority in the allocation of funds. On 20 May of this year when asked, 'What is the purpose of the loan?', the Prime Minister said, 'For matters related to energy'. The Executive Council minute carries a notation, consistent with the Constitution, that the borrowings were to be for temporary purposes. I repeat that they were to be for temporary purposes. Here we find the master stroke of deception. When the details of the purposes to which the loan was to be applied were released only a few days ago, we found that the money was to be spent on a number of projects that the Minister outlined, not one of which could be regarded as temporary. What national development project could be regarded as temporary? The Minister for Minerals and Energy smiles. He deceived this Parliament he deceived the Executive Council and he deceived the GovernorGeneral. He continues to think that this matter is of no account. He is the Minister who should be ashamed - 
-I will oblige,  Mr Speaker,  by addressing my question to the Minister for Education. Will the Minister inform the House of the respective amounts of capital grants for technical education in Victoria from the Australian Government and the Victorian Government in this financial year? What is the effect on the technical education program in Victoria of the disparity in these grants? 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
-I would be happy to have the Minister address the Chair. 
-Order! The honourable member has not raised a point of order. If those sorts of remarks are repeated, I shall take action. The time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. The question is, 'That the Bill be agreed to'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Order! The time allotted for the committee stage of the Bill has expired. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Order! The time allowed for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Order! Even with an added minute, the honourable member's time has expired. 
-I am so pleased that the honourable member is satisfied by the definition. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; reported adopted. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! Last night the honourable member for Robertson expressed his admiration for this institution. I suggest he demonstrate it by obeying Standing Orders. 
The Henderson report by inference criticised the Government by saying inflation created poverty through unemployment and other ways. The dispensing of welfare under this Government has been centralist. The Budget gives no indication of the stance or direction of social welfare. It says it attempts to take stock of our programs and consolidate our aims. In fact it is an inadequate attempt to patch up existing flaws and a failure to commit the Government to a philosophy or specific measures. It is another Band-Aid. 
The Henderson Report again clearly documents the failure of the welfare policies of this Labor Government and clearly documents over pages and pages of its report the dissatisfaction of recipients of those policies. The Australian Assistance Plan was a novel, exciting and progressive idea. It has failed because of maladministration. Members of the Government have even broken the undertaking that they would try to put forward this exciting new concept in the form of experiments and pilot schemes. What was supposed to be an experiment and a pilot scheme they have made a permanent feature of welfare and possibly have set back this exciting area of human progress a number of years. 
Let me refer to lone fathers. That is an area in which Government members have palpably turned their faces against what is probably a need above all others. They supposedly champion the working man. Where do they turn to hit him? They hit him with indirect taxes. We know that with imposts on beer, cigarettes, petrol, telephones and postage the so-called working man is put at a direct disadvantage. What does it matter to the man on $20,000, $30,000 or $40,000 a year if he has to pay another 6c a packet for cigarettes? But it does mean a great deal to the man on average weekly earnings or less. I think that hundreds of people in nursing homes tonight are desperately anxious about what their future will hold. This Budget does not solve their problems. People who are building aged persons' hostels and aged persons homes do not know where they are. 
I will have the honour in a few weeks to unveil the Opposition's social welfare policies. I believe that these policies will correct the mismanagement and the chaos into which this Government has turned this most important area of welfare. I finish as I began: What this appropriation does is spend a billion dollars of taxpayers' money. It bothers me to leave that amount in the hands of men of the character of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and their contemptible ilk. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I did not hear it. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! I would suggest that the honourable member disregard all disorderly interjections. 
One must give most serious consideration to the effect that consumer protection activities may have- that costs get out of hand. If there is one thing which this Government is noted for, it is that it has allowed cost to get out of hand in every field. As an example of how this can happen in the area of consumer protection, I will quote from an article written recently and which refers to the situation in America: 
Consumerism does not come cheaply. In fact, Americans are just beginning to realise what it can add to the cost of a product and to inflation. 
For instance, the cost of supporting all the Federal regulatory agencies created to monitor consumerism, anti-pollution and so on works out at an average of US$2,000 a year for each American family. 
Those figures are frightening. Knowing the propensity of this Government with respect to costs and the way in which it handles its departments, I am very much afraid that the cost of consumer protection could get out of hand if it is not watched carefully. I wish the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  well in his new portfolio. I suggest to him that he look at the cost of .consumer protection pretty carefully and that he take on board what I have said and what the honourable member for La Trobe has said when giving consideration to the assistance and encouragement that might be able to be given to the private groups that are so worthy of commendation for their work in consumer protection. 
I turn to the section of the estimates dealing with Science. I wish to refer to the work that is done by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The CSIRO has a worldwide reputation and deservedly so. This was mentioned by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson).  It has been my privilege to work with some of the very dedicated experts of the CSIRO in what is now the Division of Wildlife Research but which was the Division of Wildlife Survey. Let me make this point in connection with the work that the CSIRO has done. The CSIRO is a very big organisation. Approximately 7100 people are on its staff. It has more than 100 laboratories and some 37 research divisions. I am aggrieved because the work of these dedicated scientists is not fully availed of as their recommendations are not always implemented by the Government to the extent that they should be. 
One classic example concerns the former Division of Wildlife Survey, now the Division of Wildlife Research. I refer to the report that it made on the controlled harvesting of kangaroos. In the life of the previous Government a select committee of this House- the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation- investigated that aspect as part of its terms of reference. In the period that the present Government has been in office it has ignored the recommendations of CSIRO scientists backed up by the fauna authorities of Queensland. No doubt exists that if the Government had taken notice of what the CSIRO experts and the Queensland wildlife experts said in this respect we would have a more sensible approach to the matter. This is an example of what should be done to examine very carefully expert advice that is tendered. 
If expert advice is not accepted from a body such as the CSIRO, a responsibility rests clearly on the Government to demonstrate why it has not accepted the advice given. Very often the Government would not be able to do that. But it goes blindly on. Amongst other people, a representative of this Government encouraged the American authorities to refuse to import kangaroo skins to the United States of America. This meant that a great deal of employment was lost where that employment was sadly needed. The benefit to country towns which would have resulted from the continuing export of those skins was lost because of the delay. 
Another angle with which I wish to deal quickly is the amount of scientific research that goes into horticulture. State and Commonwealth authorities work in this area also. Legislation was recently passed through this chamber to establish the Apple and Pear Corporation which will undertake research work. In Queensland the Committee of Direction on Fruit Marketing does similar work. I hope that the activities of those 2 bodies will not overlap. My concern is that the benefits of this research in that industry will not be able to be utilised by fruit growers whose viability will be affected by the cost of supporting not only the Apple and Pear Corporation but also the COD. 
I hope that the Government will take some cognisance of this aspect and will note the heavy burden that will be imposed on these people in relation to the net returns that they receive. It has been estimated in Queensland- the position is even worse in Tasmania- that the figure is approximately $2,000. I am told that in many instances some $500 will be paid to the new Apple and Pear Corporation. The contribution to the COD is a couple of hundred dollars. That amount is likely to rise, even to double. How can these fruit growers be expected to carry on and to make use of the scientific advantages which are obtained for them? We must examine very closely the utilisation of scientific discoveries to ensure that people are in a position to take advantage of them. 
We must look at the cost of consumer affairs activities. I do not wish my earlier comments about the American situation, when I mentioned pollution, to be construed as meaning that we are against consumer protection and also against pollution control. Such a view would be entirely wrong. All I am suggesting is that a very careful watch be maintained on the expenditure in these very important and necessary aspects of Government activity to ensure that people receive the full benefit from them without the need to pay unduly for those advantages. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! I would remind the honourable member for Shortland that the estimates before the Committee are for the Department of the Media. He can make passing reference to some matters, but he is prolonging it a bit. 
After all, is not the principle that the public ought to be entitled to have information on all points of view? Is that not what the Department of the Media is all about? Is not the purpose of the Press to see that the public has full information about what is happening? The entitlement that the Opposition has now is something that it never gave to the previous Opposition; it is something to which it has not objected when it receives it. 
In considering the estimates of the Department of the Media, the Opposition should have drawn a proper parallel between the cost to the Australian taxpayer of the Department of the Media and the services that it provides, and the cost of the department of propaganda that operates from the Premier's Department in Queensland. That is the best propaganda machine in Australia. Members of the National Country Party do not do the public of Queensland a service when they fail to acknowledge that that is the best propaganda service in Australia. It has no comparison. The taxpayers of Queensland pay for all its activities. Information is fed straight out of the Premier's office in Queensland. 
In this context, I mention the situation that is developing in New South Wales. The Premier of New South Wales, a disciple of the Queensland Premier, is in the process of establishing a similar operation in New South Wales. Again, the Opposition does not make reference to that fact. To be fair and reasonable and to act in the best interests of the taxpayer, one surely would have to draw a comparison between the cost of the department of propaganda in Queensland, which federal Opposition members in Queensland are utilising themselves, I would imagine, the cost of the services provided in New South Wales, and the cost of running the Australian Department of the Media. The Australian people are entitled to the fullest information and they are not getting the fullest information from the media of this country. 
Over and over again, there are outcries against the Press. Yet a ludicrous situation arose a few weeks ago following what I thought were the most lukewarm proposals put forward by the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  for the establishment of a press council. The basis for such a council has support from the community as a whole. People are sick and tired of reading in one newspaper that 54 people were injured in an incident, of seeing in another paper that 3 1 people were hurt in that same incident, and of reading in another paper that no-one was injured in that incident. There is nothing more disturbing for people in a suburb than to read that there has been an accident or disaster of some sort as a result of which several deaths have occurred in that suburb and then to read in a later edition of the same newspaper that the report is changed to one death or no deaths. Depending on the newspaper, one can get a different set of statistics. 
The Press has a responsibility to report accurately. The public is not receiving accurate reporting. One would have thought that the Opposition would support the Government's proposition fully and that the newspaper proprietors also would give full support to the proposition. The strange aspect is that the AJC- no, I mean the AJA; the newspaper barons are connected with the AJC and that is how I came to draw the connection- was in full support of the establishment of a Press council. 
Ultimately, this system will change by itself, one way or another, and the community will get an accurate and comprehensive reporting coverage. It is not getting that now. If honourable members talk to media men and to reporters in this Parliament, they will know that those persons have all had their winges to every member in this chamber. They have complained that the story that has appeared in the newspaper is not the story that they submitted. They say that they are not responsible for what is published and that the story published certainly was not the story that they filed. Such claims are only a condemnation of the newspaper hierarchy itself. 
Let us look at the structure of the newspaper industry. I draw attention to the monopoly strength of the John Fairfax organisation, the Melbourne  Herald  group,  Mr Murdoch,  what is left is the legacy of  Sir Frank  Packer, the newspaper knight, and  Sir Reginald  Ansett. Between them, those people and organisations control our newspapers and feed us the diet that they choose. The honourable member for Gippsland mentioned what is printed in other countries such as socialist countries. He drew a very good parallel in my view with communist countries and the forced diet that is fed to people of those countries through the media. That diet is little different from the forced diet that is fed to the people of this nation by the 4 newspaper barons. 
The Australian people do not have freedom of access to information on the events which are occurring in Australia. Let me follow that point through. Newspaper proprietors in Australia forbid members of their staff to speak on Australian Broadcasting Commission programs. Ranged against the monolith of the media in this country is solely the ABC. Time does not enable me to expand more on that aspect. The ABC is the only source of access to some type of factual and impartial information that people in Australia have. If the ABC did not exist, the Press in this country would be no different whatsoever in quality of reporting from the Press in communist and socialist countries, as described by the previous  speaker. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these Bills? 
-I think I can rule on the point of order now. I think the right honourable member realises he is allowed some passing reference to matters outside the Bill and will carry on with the discussion of the Bill. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System I bring up an interm report of the Committee on a proposed system of committees for the Australian Parliament. A dissenting report signed by one member of the Committee is included with the main report. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I wish to support the Teaching Service Bill 1975. I had intended to commence my comments in rather a different vein.  (Quorum formed).  I thank the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  for providing me with a number of honourable members to listen at this stage of the debate. I was just about to say that I had intended to approach this Bill from a different angle until I heard the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  speak about the change of title of the Teaching Service. It seems to me that this Opposition is frightened of the term 'Australian'. It seems to want to apologise all the time for the fact that this is an Australian Government and that a number of the services it looks after are Australian services. In fact, I welcome the fact that the name of the teaching service is to be changed from the Commonwealth Teaching Service to the Australian Teaching Service. I trunk it is a proper thing to do. 
We recognise that there are different systems of education in Australia, some of which have State titles attached to them. Those State systems receive large amounts of assistance from this Australian Government. They do not acknowledge one bit of it. There is nothing wrong with differing systems of education in a country with different services because this can lead to a change in methods, a change in style and a change in systems. The systems should be such that teachers can be exchanged between the various services to look at each other's techniques. 
On 28 September the Australian Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in a Press release on the teacher exchange program said there was need to promote the exchange of experience between teachers in different States and educational systems. He said that the scheme was being tried in 1 975 with a view to continuation if worth while. I am sure that the Australian Teaching Service will add its quota to these methods and to this information, because the Australian Teaching Service reflects quite a worth while step by an Australian Government in accepting direct responsibility for the provision of primary and secondary education in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. This Bill serves as a reminder that that has occurred, and of the quality of education that is being built up in that system. 
Prior to this schools in the Australian Capital Territory were normally served with teachers from New South Wales and those in the Northern Territory with teachers from South Australia. Many of those teachers, with the new acceptance of responsibility by the Australian Government, transferred to the Australian Teaching Service. This Government, as it has in other fields, has complied with the promises and undertakings it gave to those people. First of all it provided special superannuation arrangements for them, which preserved their interest. This Bill provides the necessary preservation of their long service leave conditions to guarantee that they will be better off than they were under State conditions. This has been clearly spelt out in the Bill, and I am happy that the Opposition is not opposing it. Mind you, in another place the Opposition is not likely to make any money available for these sorts of things to happen, and perhaps it will explain that away at a suitable time. 
One of the other interesting factors in this Bill is the extension of the Teaching Service to make teachers available to technical colleges established in the Australian Capital Territory. I think it is only proper that the Australian Teaching Service should make provision for this instead of its being dependent on the New South Wales Department of Technical Education, no matter how much co-operation there has been in the past. It is a natural adjunct to taking over primary and secondary education that provision should now be made for technical education. 
I mentioned before that the differing services allowed for a difference in systems, methods and aims. I hope that now that technical education has been taken under the cover of this Service the Service will develop its own type and style of education in the technical field. Technical education has been in too many areas the Cinderella of the educational field. Now that we have this opportunity not to run a technical education program by arrangement between an Australian department and a State department but to provide the teachers to the Australian Capital Territory technical colleges in this way perhaps we may be able to start a program of innovation and experimentation in that field which will be of great benefit in the future. As I say, an example of this would be in a teaching exchange program, because one finds, say, in comparing the Victorian system of education with that of New South Wales that there are vast differences. Perhaps the Australian service can benefit by using the experience of both. 
I join the honourable member for Sturt in his support for the main portions of this legislation. I am sorry he is ashamed of the title 'Australian'. I think that he should reconsider this matter and recognise the unique type of teaching service that the Australian Teaching Service will give to the communities in the Australian Territories that it covers. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (1), omit  'Teaching Service Act  1975', substitute '  Commonwealth Teaching Service Act  1 975 '. 
In sub-clause (3), omit  'Teaching Service Act  1 972- 1 975 ', substitute '  Commonwealth Teaching Service Act  1972-1975'. 
The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  in his reply during the second reading debate to comments I made with regard to the Opposition proposals to amend this Bill, simply dealt with the question whether the word 'Commonwealth' should be retained in preference to the word 'Australian'. He did not respond in any way to my invitation to consider the suggestion of calling the Teaching Service either the Commonwealth Territories Teaching Service or the Australian Territories Teaching Service or in Papua New Guinea calling it perhaps the Australian Overseas Teaching Service. As we know, as of recent weeks Papua New Guinea is no longer a Territory of Australia but is an independent country where Australians employed under the Act which this Bill seeks to amend are still engaged in teaching work. Therefore, I again invite him to respond to that suggestion. 
Our purpose in seeking to delete the change from the name Commonwealth Teaching Service is to preserve the status quo whilst the Government considers the suggestions that we have put about the idea of the name of the service being related to the Territories or, in the case of overseas teachers, to the fact that they are teaching overseas.  Mr Chairman,  in the second reading debate you referred to the importance of having an Australian teaching service just as we have a Victorian teaching service but you failed apparently to understand that the impression would be created, both here and overseas, that the service that employed teachers under the title of the Australian Teaching Service was in fact a superior service and not a service of teachers of equal standard to those in the service of State education departments.  Mr Chairman,  some of your remarks gave me concern that you would like ultimately to see an Australian teaching service engaged in the employment of all teachers throughout Australia. 
We wish to maintain the distinction of roles between the teachers teaching in the services of New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia, which operate geographically in the respective States, and the teachers in the service which operates in the Territories of the Commonwealth or, in the case of those teachers engaged in Papua New Guinea, which operates overseas. So I invite the Minister again to give consideration to the idea of the inclusion of the word 'Territories' or the word 'overseas' in the Bill before the Committee. To achieve that end we propose merely to amend the Bill to restore the present position in which the service is called the Commonwealth Teaching Service. 
-I direct the attention of the Attorney-General to the fact that the Committee is dealing with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral and the Opposition spokesman on this matter, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  whether they are agreeable to taking the remainder of the Bill, in which case both amendments could be moved and discussed together. 
-I cannot uphold the point of order. In fact clauses 6 and 7, if honourable members look at the marginal notes, cover the functions and powers of the office. 
-Once more I seek leave of the Committee for the AttorneyGeneral to move 2 amendments together. There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-No point of order is involved. The honourable member for Casey should withdraw the term 'lie' which he knows is unparliamentary. 
This is the man who, as a leader, did not even have the decency to try to get Jim Cairns out of his problems over the Morosi affair. If he was a leader's boot lace he would have gone up, patted Jim on the shoulder and said: 'Listen Jim, ease up a bit.' But what did he do? He sat back and let him be the laughing stock of the nation while he had a letter in his possession for 2 months and then used it as the excuse for dumping him. This is the man who now is dumping the former Minister for Minerals and Energy. He let him go on these operations to borrow money overseas. The former Minister believed he had the full authority of the Prime Minister. Now the Prime Minister has dumped him. 
How can honourable members opposite expect any loyalty out of this sort of man. They are blindly following him and letting their Party be destroyed. It will be destroyed because the Australian people will not allow the Senate to have its authority taken from it. If the Prime Minister wins on this issue the Senate 's teeth will be pulled out. It no longer will be able to apply the brake and the restriction which there must be if there is a government with an obsession to push its centralist and socialist views on the Australian people. If the Government diminishes the powers of the Senate by its action it will crumble its real authority as a States House. If the Government does that it will not be revolution that it will bring about in this country; it will bring about the secession of the weaker States who must have representation in the Senate in order to be able to exercise some of their authority. We will find that Tasmania will want to go on its own and, goodness me, I can understand it doing so under the present regime. I could understand Western Australia doing so and I could understand Queenland doing so. This man says that the power of the Senate should be taken from it and it should be smashed. He says that it should not have the right of being able to challenge the bad, corrupt and scandalous government that we have in Australia today. 
Well, the challenge is on. We will take this Government on if it wants to corrupt and break the Constitution because in the long term the message will get through to the Australian people. The Government might be able to engender fear and it might be able to misrepresent with the support of some of the dishonest elements in the media but we will get our story across because we will get out on the highways and byways and tell the people openly what sort of Prime Minister we have and where he is leading this country. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 11 July 1974, I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-I inform the House that the Government Printer has advised that the incorporation in  Hansard  of 36 pages of tabular and similar material submitted by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  would present technical problems and unduly delay the production of the daily Hansard. I have therefore directed that it be not included. 
-The original question was that the motion be agreed to. To that motion the honourable member for Kingston has moved as an amendment that all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting other words. The question is: 'That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Order! I wonder whether the honourable member for Griffith, when he does call attention to the state of the Committee, could speak more loudly. He is very difficult to hear from the chair. 
-Might I suggest that it would serve the convenience of the Committee if the 2 amendments circulated by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation to clause 4 numbers (2) and (3) on the circulated list were moved together. As there is no objection, I will permit that course to be followed. 
-Is it appropriate that the 2 circulated Opposition amendments be considered together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
-I cannot uphold the point of order. The honourable member so far has related his activity to the title of the Bill, and provided he does not stray from that there is no substance to the point of order. 
I truly commend the present Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  for the way in which he has obviously sought out the views not only of the various State governments but also of the travel industry. It is remarkable that we have at least one Minister in the present Government who has had the foresight and the brains to seek out the views of others. The fact that we on the Opposition side are simply proposing amendments in the Committee stage indicates that, when Ministers of the government are prepared to seek co-operation and the views of others, they have a far greater chance of success than those who simply bulldoze their way along the path. I trust that the Minister will take into consideration the various amendments that the Opposition will move during the Committee stage. There are a number of weaknesses in the Bill that was presented and read for a first time in this Parliament on 6 March. I know that amendments are now proposed by both sides. We must have healthy discussion and, furthermore, after this legislation has been operative for some time the Parliament should be prepared to bring it back, to see where the weaknesses exist and amend it accordingly. 
-When this Bill was first introduced into this House and the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Stewart)  made his second reading speech I felt that this was a matter to which I should speak. I think States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bills in recent years have given us some chance of examining the financial relationships that exist between the Australian Government and State governments. However, history has rather overtaken us in that period and one finds that this is certainly not a time when one can discuss the complexity of this relationship. 
I commend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  for his effort in the debate yesterday to relate his discussions to the point of this Bill. Many of the comments which he made had great relevance to it. However, there were some with which I do not agree and which I question. It seemed to me that he was conducting the debate in somewhat of a state of euphoria. He was conducting it in a circumstance where we are talking about financial assistance for the States at a time when his own Party has put forward the proposition that financial assistance to the States could best be satisfied by imposing a system of double taxation. I know that such a system was previously suggested in Victoria where an attempt was made to introduce what was the equivalent of another State income tax. This suggestion received a resounding raspberry from the Victorian public. The honourable member for Lilley forgot to mention that. He expressed surprise that the Minister in his second reading speech said that because we are in a period when we are trying to show economic restraint the adjustment was about 20 per cent. This is what would be needed to maintain the programs at roughly the same real level as in the previous year. 
The honourable member for Lilley went on to complain about the lack of growth factor that was in that. The same honourable member belongs to an Opposition which has suggested that there should be a 12.5 per cent cut in government expenditure across the board. Yet there he is complaining that restraint is being shown in this area and that no allowance is being made for growth. I find it very difficult to understand why honourable members opposite follow these lines. We have had the experience, not only with financial Bills but also with other Bills, of the Senate in this Parliament and the last Parliament rejecting or unacceptably amending more Bills in 3 years than previously since Federation. We have had complete obstruction of Government programs in practically every field. We put the matter to the test in May last year and the Government was returned. There was equality of numbers in the Senate but a majority of votes for the Government party. Since then the petulant little boys, deprived of the toffee apple of government after 23 years, have been unable to adjust to the fact that they are in opposition. 
I find it quite difficult, after a great deal of examination of Budget Paper No. 7, the details of the Bill and the Minister's speech, to think it worth while that one can be discussing Commonwealth-State relationships under these circumstances where the Australian Parliament has been dragged down to such a level by a unrepresentative House. The program outlined in the Bill has evolved over a period of years. It is one which from the States' point of view guarantees the availability of finance.  (Quorum formed)  The honourable member for Maranoa, in calling for a quorum, confirms the comments I was making about the Opposition's obstructive and destructive attitude to financial legislation which is presently before the Parliament and how it has rendered superfluous any discussion of Commonwealth-State relationships. Let me return to the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill. This is one of the most important programs for the State governments. The Loan Council program represents the major source of funds for capital works for the States. Each State has autonomy in relation to the way in which it spends those funds. The important thing about capital grants is that they are capital grants and not loans. One can see the savings that must occur in debt charges. Let us look at what has happened under the present Government. I am afraid that I will have to cite some figures here. Taking capital grants as a proportion of the total works and housing program one finds that in 1970-71 it represented 24.3 per cent; in 1971-72, 24.6 per cent; in 1972-73, 25.3 per cent; in 1973-74, 26.7 percent; in 1974-75, 32.1 percent; and the present proposition represents one-third. So under the present Government substantial consideration has been given to the financial needs of the States. 
Further than that, it should be recalled that in 1973 it was decided to provide advances for housing outside the Loan Council arrangements. These annual advances which have been determined by the Minister for Housing and Construction after consultation with the appropriate State ministries have meant a substantial, effective increase in the moneys available to the States. Of course, these advances to the State housing authorities are at low interest over a long period. I am disappointed in many of the Statesparticularly my own- which give no recognition to the assistance that has been given by this Government. I am fed up with seeing so many programs going on that have arisen out of a more enlightened attitude by this Government, 'taxes at work' and signs going up that suggest that these improvements and increases are due solely to State governments and not to any enlightened attitude or stimulation by the Australian Government. Despite obstruction on so many measures, this Government has been able to provide resources for the States to take action in many new areas, to provide services which have been required for decades and which were not even considered by previous governments. We heard loud blowing from my old friend and opponent,  Sir Henry  Bolte, when he was Premier of Victoria about the Victorian Railways and how he would be glad to get rid of them. What happened when the offer was made? There was a 'thumbs down' from the Victorian Government. At least the South Australian and Tasmanian Governments showed some wisdom in accepting the Australian Government 's offer to take over their railways which provide service particularly to outlying areas but which in themselves have caused a great deal of strain on State budgets. 
I have been able to touch on some matters only briefly. I wanted to go further and have a look at the flow-through of this program to various authorities other than the State governments. I regret that the petulant actions of the Opposition in this House and in the Senate have stifled proper consideration of the financial arrangements between the Australian Government and the State governments, that they have made it difficult for further advances to be made, that they have further clouded the issue by holding over the head of the Australian people the threat of a system of double taxation whereby they will have to pay tax under what has become accepted as the Australian taxation system and the State governments will, as they wish, be able to impose extra taxes. I think that this would be a very retrograde step. I am sure that, when in a fullness of time this Parliament expires, if the Opposition puts forward that proposition it will receive a resounding 'no' to it. I trust that for the benefit of the States the Opposition will cease its obstruction and allow finances which will flow from this and other legislation to reach those areas where they will be of most benefit. 
-I am having great difficulty in hearing the honourable member. I ask the honourable member to continue before I rule on the point of order. 
-Order! The time allotted for the remainder of the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. 
Remainder of the Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="097131197511040_24_1.jpg"></graphic>

What this Government fails to recognise is that reasonable business profits, a healthy private sector and the meaningful gainful employment of many thousands of Australians go hand in hand. Today's profits are tomorrow's investments and the day after tomorrow's jobs and increased incomes. That is what I am talking about- the meaningful and gainful employment of Australians. The Government purports belatedly to recognise this. But for how long? Who can say? At any rate, who can believe what the Government says? Only at the weekend  Senator James  McClelland from the other place, referring to the 'grievous errors' of the Government to which I myself have just been making reference, went on to say, as reported in the Press: 
It also took some of our doctrinaire members a long time to discover that unless private enterprise is healthy the whole economy is sick. 
I put it to this Parliament and to the Australian people: Have those doctrinaire members really made that discovery or is it just expedient for a short time to pretend to do so? 
What gets in the way of sound policy, in the tariff as in other areas, is not just the incompetence and the ineptitude of the Government out its very ideology- its socialist, anti-business and now, if it would only realise it, anti-employee stance and actions. That is what gets in the way of sound policy at every point. Thus, it was, as 1 have said, part of this Government's policy to accommodate an enlarged public sector that the July 1973 25 per cent tariff slash was undertaken with all the damage it has wrought. It was this ideological thrust which was at the back of the Government's illegal, dishonest, secretive, disastrous loans affair. It is this ideology which now gets in the way of sound economic policy today. There is no way this Government could so order its priorities as to accommodate in the present Budget the imperative recommendations of the Mathews Committee- the recommendations that personal income tax be indexed and that the base of company taxation be varied to improve not just the incentive but the very capacity of business to undertake that investment which will lift the level of production and the level of employment in the future. Those recommendations by the Mathews Committee now are supported and reinforced by the Jackson Committee. The failure to give effect to this priority is the fundamental, in a sense the enduring indictment of the Government. 
Who can have confidence in a government with priorities so ill-judged that the health of the private sector, and therefore the jobs- the meaningful and gainful employment of thousands of Australians- is put in jeopardy? Sometimes people say to me: 'Well, you criticise the Labor Government's economic policies but does it not get advice from the same Treasury, from expert committees and so on, just as the Liberal and Country Parties did in government?' It does get advice but it does not act on it. As I have said, reasons of ideology militate against it. The Mathews Committee was established by this Government last November; it included a leading member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions; it reported in May and its findings were endorsed in effect by the ACTU. Yet those imperative recommendations are put to one side. It is too difficult for the Government to assess their implications and to implement them at this time, so we are told. 
I have referred to the report of the Jackson Committee tabled last Thursday. This is not the context in which to debate the report as a whole but in the specific area of tariffs the approach of the report is broadly in line with the tariff policy of the Opposition side of the House. That policy starts from the fact that the tariff has been and is the principal instrument of resource-creating industrialisation in Australia. The Liberal and National Country Parties accordingly are committed to the adequate protection of appropriate industries to foster an efficient growing and diversified manufacturing sector in Australia, complementary to our great rural and mining industries. Constancy and predictability are the essence of the matter and that is what has been lacking in the Government's approach to tariffs over its period of office. As I said, this has contributed in a major way to the uncertainty and to the lack of confidence in the community, which is a major weakness in the current economic situation. 
In saying that we are committed to the adequate protection of industry in this way, we do not rest content with the level of tariffs. The Opposition side of the House is committed to the continuing systematic review of the tariff structure which indeed was instituted by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. We are committed to that on the basis that the higher the level of assistance the more frequent should be the review. We are not committed to the proposition that assistance would not be justified simply because the required tariff duty would exceed some arithmetical percentage. The whole context of these matters has to be looked at, not just the degree of protection. For instance, the degree of 'essentiality' of the industry, the prospects for growth of an industry and improved productivity through economies of scale, the industry's export potential, the extent to which it uses and enhances scientific, innovative and technological skills, and other factors have to be looked at. Nevertheless, we aver that high duties require greater justification due to the larger cost carried by the community, which means ultimately by the exporting industries and in particular by the rural and mining export industries. So higher duties require greater justification and more frequent review, and that is where the thrust of tariff change and bringing tariffs down needs to be directed. 
What is then important is that change should be gradual and that there should be consultation between the Government and industry, employers and employees, concerned. Rightly, the Jackson Committee lays great stress on this last point, on developing partnership and not confrontation between the 2 sides of industry and between both and the government. In sum, the fostering of an efficient, thriving and diversified manufacturing sector is essential for the realisation of our twin national objectives of full employment and achieving the maximum capacity of this country to meet our individual and national goals. But under this Government that capacity has been brought low. The manufacturing sector has been run down and that is a long term effect, not just a passing, short term thing.  Major areas  of manufacturing in Australia have been abandoned for ever, not just for the time being.  Major rural  industries are in a parlous state.- New investment is stagnant and thereby the basis of the future growth of national output and production is undermined. 
How were the various objectives emphasised by the Australian Labor Party prior to the 1972 election, and shared by this side of the House, in the field of social welfare, in education, urban development and in assistance to the poor to be achieved? They were to be achieved from the growth of the economy's capacity to produce goods and services which provides the means to foster, to pursue these ends. What has been the record? We find an economy in which there is no growth, in which there has been no major new development project in the last 3 years. There was a statement of intent the other month but there has been no new major development project. The investment, the new plant and equipment, the new developments which provide the basis of the expansion of national output and national product in order to enable the achieving of the national objectives to which I referred have been undermined and brought low. There are 300 000 unemployed and the level is rising. 
-I cannot uphold the point of order. The honourable member so far has addressed himself to definitions. 
-Order! I have allowed the honourable member some latitude in his introductory remarks, but he is making a speech which is more relevant to the second reading debate than to clauses 1 to 3 which are at present before the Committee. 
-Order! The Minister is debating clause 39. The Committee is dealing with clauses 24 and 25. 
have common spiritual affiliations to a site on the land, being affiliations that place the group under a primary spiritual responsibility for that site and for that land; and 
are entitled by Aboriginal tradition to forage as of right over that land: 
Clearly that is an attempt to identify the owners in terms of all the traditions; not the white man's imposed principles or concepts but in every respect having regard to the anthropological advice to which the Government and  Mr Justice  Woodward have had access. We have brought all that enlightenment to bear. It is all right to have this continual destructiveness and this disparagement, but there is no enthusiasm emanating from honourable gentlemen opposite and there is certainly nothing but negative attitudes to this legislation. Not one constructive proposal has been put forward by them as to how this legislation could be made better in respect of the rights of ownership of Aboriginal people. Honourable gentlemen opposite know of the Government's good intent on this matter and know of the good intent of all of its advisers; Ye we are treated to an incessant barrage of destructive diatribe. The fact of the matter is that clause 24 talks about the Land Council. 
It is true that there is a likelihood of disputes about boundaries and disputes about ownership. What does one do in an eventuality of that kind? I acknowledge that it could happen. I am saying to the honourable gentleman that we are aware that there could be problems and I am asking what can be done. I ask the honourable gentleman whether he has a helpful suggestion. What has been recommended by  Mr Justice  Woodward is embodied in clauses 24 and 25 of the legislation. Having referred to the role of the Land Council in identifying the owners and the boundaries, clause 25 then goes on to indicate certain things. I do not think that it would be proper to deal with that yet. 
-I would like to add my congratulations to those offered to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees and as your  Deputy, Mr Speaker.  This is the second contest between us. The score is now one all. My only regret is that the time between contests was not longer. I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your election to office today. Perhaps in the next few weeks you will realise the scope of the duties you have taken on. The new  Chairman  of Committee well knows the task that faces him. He knows,  Sir, that  when you are not in the Chair and are carrying out your other duties- other honourable members may not believe this- the  Chairman  of Committees bears a very heavy duty in the running of the House or the Committee. 
I hope that in the holiday he has had during the last 2 parliaments he has given some thought to the operation of the position of  Chairman  of Committees and that with your co-operation,  Mr Speaker,  there may be some improvement in the facilities available to him. Also in the holiday about which I have spoken, I believe that he has probably come to realise that the Committee stages, which are his particular province, have started to take on a lesser importance in the Australian Parliament, yet they are the most important stages of the parliamentary process. I hope that he will use his position, his experience and the short time that he has had to reflect over the last 3 years, to produce improvements not just for his own sake but to enable all honourable members to debate the issues in the House or in the Committee stages. I congratulate the honourable member and wish him well. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has a decision been reached to continue the softwoods agreement with the States after the legislation expires this year in either an interim or a more permanent manner? If not, why not, and how will this affect future supplies of softwoods in Australia and employment in country areas? If so, in any such agreement are environmental safeguards included? 
-He is not on the list that I have. 
I point out that the method of financing tertiary institutions, for instance, was on a formula which was of such rigidity that State governments were quite often not able to cope from their revenues with their commitments to universities and other organisations. The Commonwealth, under the now Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  eventually had to drop the practice of announcing how much it would make available prior to the States making their amounts available in order that the amount of money available to the universities would be that amount of money for which the States could provide their matching grants. 
I remember Bills being passed in this House to assist aged persons in elderly citizens clubs, with paramedical services and in a number of other ways. The Bills were subject to a minimum commitment from the States and a minimum commitment from the local councils. Without the minimum commitment no Commonwealth funds were provided. That was the freedom of choice given by the former Liberal-Country Party Government in this place. It is not the sort of fairy story we have just heard from honourable members opposite. 
There is no easy solution to the problems of a federation and fund raising where there is the type of diversity which exists between the government regions or the political units. To suggest that the responsibility will go back to the people of the States is another fairy story. In most of the States of Australia the people have very little opportunity to alter the political structure of their State governments. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  was a member of a House of Parliament in which, he well knew, the people had no opportunity to alter the political structure of that House, irrespective of how they voted. 
Labor government's were in office. I suggest that honourable gentlemen opposite would have said that the people of Queensland had very little chance of changing these Labor governments, just as they have of changing the present Queensland Government by electoral means. 
It is always a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  in debate because we always have from him flowery phrases and not much substance. At the beginning of his speech he quoted from Tennyson. Looking at the Government benches I feel like quoting from Tennyson too and saying that the coalition parties remind me of Tennyson's  Charge of the Light Brigade- Into  the valley of death rode the six hundred '. That is what the coalition is doing. This brash group, uplifted by what occurred under snide circumstances in December last year, is charging headstrong into a situation that will lead to its own destruction. What disturbed me more though about the honourable member's speech was that earlier in it he named certain union leaders and uttered an open threat to them by saying that the people had gaoled them on 13 December. In other words, any union leader carrying out his duties is threatened by this Government with imprisonment. That is a tactic that has been used by totalitarian regimes throughout the world. It is usually done by putting a political tag on a particular union leader. The honourable member does not judge the sense of the people in these matters. 
I would remind him of the occasion when Clarrie 0 'Shea was gaoled by  Mr Justice  Kerr for carrying out the wishes of his union members on an industrial matter and not because of his political complexion.  Mr Justice  Kerr committed him to gaol and the whole industrial union movement, not just one pan with a certain political complexion, got behind him. The honourable member well knows how that matter was resolved. That was brought about by a man whom the honourable member professes to admire. When I hear a Queenslander talking about responsible Labor men taking positions I can believe only that he is referring to the opinion of his colleague the Premier of Queensland and the former  Senator Albert  Field. Apparently they represent the outstanding Labor men in whom the honourable member believes. 
Also, during his speech, he called for a committee to deal with disasters. For many years the coalition parties when in government did not have a great deal of faith in committees of inquiry even when they were comprised of persons with interest in the particular field being investigated. Just recently the Government terminated a number of committees that were set up by the Labor Government. Admittedly most of them had finished their inquiries and would not have incurred further expenditure, but I point out that the committees which his coalition Government decries- he apparently does not agree with the Government because he has asked for another one to be established- in the last 3 years have given enough basic information to government, information that was not known before, to guide governments of whatever complexion in their actions for many years to come.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I was provoked into making those comments. 
I have already congratulated you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and  Mr Speaker,  on your election to your offices. Having had some experience, albeit rather short, in your position, I know what the duties are like and I wish you and  Mr Speaker  well. We have heard in this Address-in-Reply debate a series of maiden speeches from new members. I congratulate those new members on their maiden speeches. I am one of those rare people who have had the opportunity to make 2 maiden speeches because of membership in two different parliaments. I know that they all have felt the sense of importance of coming into the Federal Parliament. If they have not got that sense of awe, that sense of satisfaction, I hope that their colleagues see that they pretty soon go out of this Parliament. I accept that in their maiden speeches there was much with which I would disagree but I accept also the sincerity with which they have put forward their point of view and congratulate them on the way they have put it forward. I hope now that they settle down to the hurley burley of parliamentary politics and what will go on in the legislation before the House. They will come to know that there is a lot of work that is not done in this chamber. They will find that members of both sides of the House in committees can co-operate and bring meaningful reports and answers to the Parliament. I look forward to working with some of them in that capacity. 
I have listened with some interest both when I have been in the chamber and when I have been in my office to the general discussion that has gone on in the Address-in-Reply debate. I have listened to what has been said by my colleagues on this side of the House and I wish now to move an amendment to the motion that has been moved in connection with the Address-in-Reply. I move: 
That the following words be added to the Address: ', but note that- 
the Speech makes no acknowledgment of the financial pre-eminence of the House of Representatives; 
the Speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure that there cannot be a recurrence of the Constitutional crisis which threatens the continuation of the Australian Parliamentary system and 
the proposals outlined in the Speech are so framed as to cause a major transfer of resources from middle and low income families to those on higher income levels'. 
In speaking to the amendment, one cannot help referring to the circumstances of the last election. I shall not go into the detail of how that election was brought about. That matter has already been quite widely canvassed by other honourable members in their discussion of the roles of the Governor-General, the roles of the Prime Minister, and so on. What I do want to say is that there is an attitude amongst honourable members that this matter is over and done with, that a decision by the people electing a government is sufficient answer to the constitutional question and the question of how this Parliament should operate. I can remember that in 1966, although I was not in the Federal Parliament then, the Party to which I belong suffered a crushing defeat in Federal elections. It suffered that defeat on the basis of its opposition to the Vietnam involvement and conscription. Despite that defeat it forced people to continue to consider the matter. It continued to put forward its arguments. It did not say that that vote was the end of the matter, and history has provided the answer. My Party was wise to have continued in that argument because country after country reached the same conclusion to which the Australian Labor Party had come. In fact, the electorate suffered some pangs of conscience, and that was shown in its subsequent voting. 
So it would be wrong not to discuss these sorts of issues, even if honourable members opposite deride us for doing so and say that we are moaning. I have won a few contests in my life and lost quite a few others and I have never grizzled. I am not grizzling now. Those members of the Parliament who know me know that over the years, despite the fact that I am given a left wing label- I do not apologise for that label, although I believe that those sorts of labels serve no purposethere has never been any doubt about my belief in the parliamentary institution and how it operates. Yet, after all those years, following the recent incidents, I have found my confidence in that institution somewhat lessened. Those incidents led me to think about these matters and decide that they are worth pushing. 
We all generally understand what the Westminster system of Parliament is. Yet I think that very few of us realise the differences there are between parliaments that are classified as operating under that system. Of those parliaments which I have visited and investigated there are very few indeed- I think most of them are in the States of Australia- that have the same system as our Federal Parliament in which can occur the situation we had last year which was brought about by the upper House having financial preeminence over the Lower House. It must lead us to think about how the Senate 's powers should be defined. It is surely accepted that the Government is formed in the House of Representatives. If that is so, that House must have financial preeminence, otherwise after each election when it came to the formation of a government the question would arise as to who can form a government. Unless a majority is held in both Houses by a party or by coalition parties, in the circumstances of last year the respective parties could no longer claim that they could form a government which, with confidence, could obtain the finance for operation. So we have to give some thought to what protection can be given, what action can be taken. Honourable members may think it is desirable that that sort of confused situation persist. All right, if they believe that is so, that is fair enough. Some of us do not choose to believe that is so. We believe that the Government should be formed in the House of Representatives, in the lower House. 
Another matter I wish to raise concerns replacements in the Senate. That matter becomes more important for those honourable members who believe that the Senate and the House of Representatives should have equal powers. If that is to be so we surely should ensure that replacements of deceased or retired members should come from the same party as the person who is being replaced. We should take action to ensure that. Other questions, I believe, need to be asked with regard to the constitutional requirements. It would seem that for a brief period in Australia His Excellency the GovernorGeneral has more power than the Queen whom he represents. I think that is something to which honourable members must give thought in order to see how it can be resolved. 
The final part of my amendment refers to the question of the economy and refers specifically to the fact that middle and low income families are going to suffer most under this Government's administration. In the Governor-General's Speech this statement appears: 
We have a unique opportunity to establish in Australia a truly liberal- 
The word ' liberal ' is spelt with a small '1 '-  and humane society- to demonstrate that independence and freedom are not only compatible with action to assist the disadvantaged but inseparable from it. 
No one would disagree with that. Those were the principles upon which the Labor Government tried to act in the last 3 years. But the actions which have been taken now are not compatible with that statement. The terms of the matter of public importance this morning mentioned some of the disadvantages that were occurring. In the social welfare field pensioners have been deprived of several million dollars because of delay and refusal to pay a benefit which they had been receiving for some time. I asked a question this morning with regard to the softwoods agreement. Many people in the rural areas in the States are concerned that there is no indication that that agreement will be continued after its expiry this year. That agreement is even more important than the superphosphate bounty in some of these country areas, because the superphosphate bounty does not benefit the small bloke too much. It might benefit the big farmer. But the proper conduct of forestry operations in country areas keeps the ordinary worker and his family in those country areas. Yet the forestry agreement is about to expire and workers in the industry are not certain of their future. No wonder the States are concerned. 
-I do not see that that is relevant to forestry agreements. 
That may be so, but I think we have to balance the transfer of resources so that the best use is obtained by the largest number. 
We are told in the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that there are no soft options. It has become an article of faith that public spending can be no use in time of recession. Not everyone agrees with that and there are differing opinions on it world-wide. Some of the expenditure cuts have been foolish in the extreme. In the Governor-General's Speech Commonwealth public servants are talked about as 'bureaucrats' and the 'Federal bureaucracy' is mentioned. Public servants need not be bureaucrats. It seems to be part and parcel of the 'Kick a public servant today ' approach. 
This Parliament and Australian governments have been served well by their public servants. There are exceptions in private enterprise as well as in public enterprise. It is about time the Government got away from this 'Kick a public servant a day' approach in order to destroy confidence in the public sector of activity when that public sector has added much to our community. Free enterprise is talked of so widely- a free enterprise in which one can trust one 's arm to get one's profit and benefit from it provided one is protected by government subsidies, bounties and every assistance under the sun. When are we going to get that into perspective? If the Government wants to talk about free enterprise and private enterprise they should be defined. Government supporters spend most of their time protecting private enterprise at the cost of the ordinary low and middle income earners. Give them a thought. Honourable members opposite should start making up their minds about public expenditure and private expenditure because a lot of their talk is hollow. A lot of that private expenditure will not go on unless there is massive Government support. That is part of what happened during the term of the Labor Government. There was a strike of capital because private enterprise could not wring the advantages out of a Labor Government that they could out of the coalition parties which they helped to finance in their campaign to gain government.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the amendment I have moved to the House. 
It gives me a great deal of pleasure to support the motion for the re-forming of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I use the word 're-forming' because paragraph 18 of the motion specifies that the evidence and records of the Committee which was operating during the last 2 Parliaments would be available to the new Committee during the term of this Parliament. I was the original Chairman of the former Committee. I chaired it for most of the last 2 Parliaments until I was forced to resign when I spent a brief term as Chairman of Committees. Chairing that Committee was one of the most satisfying aspects of my parliamentary work. The Minister  for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who moved the motion mentioned that it arose out of the recommendation of the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. The Minister himself was a member of that Committee, and he knows the work that was done. All parties realise that the recommendation of the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation for the setting up of a standing committee on environmental matters was a sensible one, and so everyone co-operated in the setting up of that committee. 
I share something of the enthusiasm for the Environmental Committee that my colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  has for the Standing Committee on Road Safety. I might try to contradict his remarks about his committee being the most hardworking one. I feel that perhaps this Committee was just as hardworking, if not more so. Something which honourable members will have to realise is related to a previous motion in regard to the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. There is sound evidence to show that members of Parliament are inclined to put more time and effort into committees such as this one, which deal with areas of special interest, because they are new, they are exciting and they evoke public interest; but they are not necessarily related to the legislative process. I have some reservations about an examination of a proper committee system for this Parliament, because it may be that regrettably many of these special interest committees will have to be limited. There are areas in the proceedings of Parliament, such as legislation committees, Bills committees, expenditure committees and so on, which, if we copy the style which is used in overseas parliaments or adapt them to local conditions, will reduce the opportunities for standing committees or select committees of this type simply because there is such a wide range of interesting subjects that we would all like to examine. However, there are not enough of us in the Parliament, nor is there the time, to be able to do it. It may be that the Committee on Environment and Conservation will have to be one of those which disappears into a more general committee. 
I would point out that the terms of reference, specifically paragraph 1(a), will allow the Committee to initiate inquiries as of right. The Committee can choose areas for investigation and inquiry and it means that the field is wide open. I am glad that the motion contains that provision. While I accept that matters may well be referred to the Committee by the responsible Minister or by resolution of the House, I believe such committees ought to have this degree of flexibility and independence in choosing some of the subjects that they wish to have before them. 
One of the interesting features of the history of this Committee has been its ability to remain independent of the relevant department. While the Committee enjoyed good relations with that Department and received the maximum assistance from it, it could never have been said to have been a tool of the Department, conducting such inquiries and making such findings as that Department desired. It has been truly a parliamentary committee investigating matters which it felt were proper for the Parliament to be informed about. 
I could not leave that matter without paying a tribute to the co-operation of the first Minister responsible and who was associated with this Committee. I refer to the honourable member for Maribyrnong, the honourable Moss Cass. When the Committee was first formed he talked to us about subjects that we might look at. He showed his interest at every stage of our examinations. He was most helpful and did not attempt to interfere. The Committee went ahead with a number of inquiries and concentrated on objective examination. So many environmental matters in the community today are judged on a subjective basis, on the emotion that they are able to raise, rather than on an objective balance of opinions and facts and working out what is the best for the present and for the future in our community. 
Here again I must pay a tribute to the members who served on that Committee, some of whom are still with us. I see the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  One of its former members,  Mr Kerin,  the former honourable member for Macarthur, was sitting in the gallery a short time ago. I do not want to list all the members of that Committee but I want to say that they showed a great aptitude for their task. They settled down and talked not on a party basis but on the basis of the problem placed before them. They tossed around the various arguments and in every case, helped by a very good staff, came up with balanced opinions on those matters. If the same atmosphere continues in the new Committee it can but be of benefit with its reports to the Parliament. 
Such a committee highlights the importance of public participation in parliamentary committee hearings. One of the striking features of environmental and conservation matters is the large number of people and organisations in the community with a point of view to put forward. Some of those points of view may seem foolish and some may seem extreme but it is important that the individual or group in the community has the opportunity to discuss them at a public hearing, to put forward its arguments and to allow itself to be questioned about them. This was one of the most important features of the previous Committee. 
One matter that concerns me is how Parliament should follow up reports of this nature. I remember the first report of the Committee which was presented in the 28th Parliament and which dealt with the pressure of tourists on park areas, particularly Ayers Rock. I have made constant inquiries over the last 3 years to see what activity has taken place. A great deal of planning has been done and suggestions put forward but in the 3 years since the presentation of that report the tourist pressures on Ayers Rock have increased and the damage has increased. Time is very short if we are not to suffer permanent depredation of the environment there. That inquiry revealed general principles which should have applied to other areas. It might be noted that during those 3 years the Government was formed by the Party to which I belong but I think there was some delay in dealing with that matter. I fear that the present Government will believe that the present financial stringencies are too great to deal with environmental matters such as these. If this Government is carried away by that argument permanent damage will be done for generations to come. 
Another matter which came before the previous Committee was the forestry agreement which is to terminate shortly. I believe the report of that Committee should provide a basis for a sensible renewal of the agreement. Many other things were dealt with, including waste disposal and wildlife problems. An interesting report which we now should be able to present deals with the question of residential development pressures on areas of high scenic amenity near the cities. A particular case study was done in the Dandenongs area and a unanimous report was ready for presentation, I believe, just before the dissolution of the last Parliament. It was not presented. I hope that we will soon see that report reviewed and presented to Parliament because it again relates to an urgent subject. 
Matters such as fauna trafficking, bird smuggling and so on have been highlighted in the Press over the last couple of years. Such smuggling is a multi-million dollar industry. The previous Committee was able to examine this matter not only from the environmental point of view but to consider whether in some way we could prevent the criminal associations that go along with it. There is no doubt that simple bird smuggling is tied in with far more dangerous activities such as the smuggling of drugs and other rather more vicious criminal activities. 
In all these matters we must pay regard to our responsibility to the States, as is set out in this motion for the appointment of this Committee. Some States were most co-operative from the beginning of these inquiries but others have been highly suspicious of any examination by a committee of this Parliament. Only by the objectivity of the reports produced have we gained grudging acceptance in those areas. I hope that this Committee of this new Parliament will receive a much freer run in that way and greater cooperation in areas where there was not cooperation before. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The document read as follows)- 
The members of the new Council are, in alphabetical order: 
Professor W. D. Borrie- Professor of Demography, Australian National University, and Director of the National Population Inquiry 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
2/F/3 CLAIMANTS MUST BE CAPABLE AND WILLING TO WORK 
A claimant must be capable of undertaking, and willing to undertake, work of a class which he normal ny follows or of an equivalent kind, 
Where a person is prepared to accept only part-time work, although capable of performing the duties of a fulltime position, unemployment benefit should not be paid as the claimant cannot be regarded as satisfactorily fulfilling the requirements of the work test. 
Applicants will be considered not to have satisfied the work test if by their own actions they indicate they are not genuinely seeking employment, for example- 
they deliberately choose to make themselves unavailable for work by moving to a location where no such work is available; 
they deliberately make themselves unacceptable to employers; 
they seek only occupations for which they are not qualified or which are extremely rare and in which vacancies would rarely, if ever, be available in their area of residence. (There have been reports of people seeking to register for example as a wine taster in Cairns, a poker machine mechanic in Victoria, a hospital orderly where there is no hospital or a customs agent where there is no port or airport). 
they adopt a style of presentation (e.g. dress) which is clearly inappropriate for the employment sought. If such applicants persist in this attitude they are to be referred only to employment to which their presentation is appropriate. However, in order that they may not be subject to undue prejudice by certain employers they are to be given a second opportunity and if they refuse the second referral they will not be accepted as having satisfied the work test. 
Social Security Act which enable the Department to postpone benefit payments where a person is voluntarily unemployed. The Minister assured us that the Government would make greater use of income tax records from the Australian Taxation Office to crack down on cheats. Compare that with the attitude of the Liberal and National Country Parties to the possible use of Medibank records for other purposes. 
The latest measures regarding the work test and conditions of eligibility for unemployment benefit announced by the Government represent a substantial change from what was applied by the Labor Government. They indicate the determination of this Government to pursue its vendetta against the unemployed. The measures may overcome some cheating, but they also will have the effect of denying unemployment benefit to people who, in our view, have a right to receive it. School leavers, for instance, who under previous Liberal governments received unemployment benefit from the time they made application, now will be denied the benefit until the school year begins. The Government's amendment of the 'suitable work' definition, to extend the range of employment that can be offered so that a skilled person can be offered a quite unskilled job after 6 weeks, is nothing more than a harassment of the unemployed. If will certainly do nothing to fill up job vacancies. From this provision one would think that the vast numbers of unemployed are skilled people and that comparatively few unskilled people are unemployed. But the fact is that the picture is totally the reverse. The unemployed are overwhelmingly either unskilled or semi-skilled, with precious few vacancies for them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I support the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  for the reasons which have already been well outlined in the debate. I always have the greatest respect for the opinions offered by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in debates such as this. I give him credit for the fact that he always gives the subject a great deal of thought. I disagree violently often with the conclusions he reaches, but at least he does not pose as one of those pseudo small '1' liberals in these affairs. He puts forward his arguments as a result of having given the matter some consideration. However, despite that respect, I must admit that I have to ignore his admonition about looking into the past, because when I hear government supporters talking in this debate about the new thrust that this type of legislation brings forward I regard it as being just such a giggle. Really it is time they were honest with themselves. They might remember the 1967 Budget when the then Treasurer,  Mr William  McMahon, could not find a cent for pensioners. The coffers were empty. He expressed sympathy for the pensioners and yet before that Budget was passed $120m had been found for devaluation relief in the rural areas. There was compensation for the farmers but no increases for pensioners. 
At least the Labor Government set a target for the level of social service payments, a reference point which had some relation to purchasing power and comfort. It aimed at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. It adopted the idea of twice yearly regular adjustments to those pensions. I think that that, in itself, set an example which this Government is carrying on in the present adjustment to the pensions, although it is not following up that sort of adjustment with other allowances. I think that it has been accepted that the previous Government adopted an innovative attitude to pensions. Its job was made more difficult by the neglect that had occurred in previous years. I suppose that one must exempt the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who did try to get proper adjustments to pensions when he was the responsible Minister but, of course he could not get his way with his colleagues. 
I would like to make some comment on the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill. This Bill contains a simple adjustment of the base rates. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  referred in his second reading speech to the 
Independent Inquiry into the Repatriation System, the report of  Mr Justice  Toose, as did the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  in his contribution to the debate. This inquiry was conducted over a number of years and the report became available only recently. Before you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  remind me, I freely admit, as is stated in the report of  Mr Justice  Toose, that the terms of reference of the inquiry specifically precluded the making of any recommendations in relation to levels and actual rates of pensions and allowances. The Minister brought the matter before the House in his second reading speech and I think it was quite proper that he did so. He said that the Government would consider this matter. 
The Toose inquiry was such a wide ranging one that I believe it would be proper for the Parliament to consider its report. It contains innumerable factors that one would want to discuss. The question of entitlements under this legislation probably is one of the most vexed questions that has arisen in the repatriation field over the years but it has not yet been determined. Recently there were Press reports stating that former members of the Services felt that when they appeared before tribunals for their entitlement they were bullied or disadvantaged. I hope that this does not reflect an economy measure imposed by the Government- that restricting entitlements would restrict expenditure. I do not know the validity of those Press reports but I did read them. I am sure the Minister could comment on their validity or otherwise. 
It might be as well for the Parliament to have the opportunity to discuss entitlement. The Toose report commented that the basis of entitlement for entry to the system generally was clear but that the manner in which it was expressed in the legislation was unnecessarily complex. That has been known for decades and it is about time the Parliament got down to settle this matter. Even in the report it was stated that there must be a temporal relationship or a causal relationship. There is reference to the balance of probabilities and to phrases such as 'it is contributed to' or 'aggravated by'. All these terms are pretty indefinite. We have to get down to an understanding of those terms in ordinary lay language. We cannot afford the legalistic or medical concepts of those terms. There must be reasonable understanding of the legislation by former members of the forces and by the tribunals who deal with them. 
Failing a full debate on the Toose committee report, I want to refer to another matter related to repatriation benefits- the repatriation hospitals. The repatriation hospital at Heidelberg is not in my electorate but is very close to it I have known it for many years. I am disappointed that there are so many vacant wards and unused facilities in that hospital. Even if the Government believes that there are financial stringencies, it ought to consider the principles in the summary of the Toose report where it is suggested that repatriation hospitals be integrated with community health facilities and that to keep them viable they should be there for the benefit of the community as well. In the area in which the Heidelberg Repatriation General Hospital exists there is great strain on local hospitals. To integrate repatriation hospitals into community health services would be a darn sight cheaper than putting up with the problems that exist in those general hospitals. 
I refer now to the Social Services Amendment Bill. I was disturbed to hear Government supporters suggest in a recent debate that this sort of benefit should be a privilege, not a right. I do not accept that statement. The people who receive these social services have, in the main, had productive lives. They have paid their taxation. They have played their part in the production of this community. They have not been fortunate enough to follow employment which provided superannuation schemes to which they could have subscribed. I do not know whether they should be termed disadvantaged but many of them never enjoyed that level of income which would enable them to protect themselves in the future. 
I believe that 18 per cent of the voters in my electorate are in receipt of these payments. I think that I would probably crack even on the votes of that 1 8 per cent. Anyone who thinks that he can sway this section of the voting public has another think coming. In general these people have become fixed in their ways. We can divorce that cheap effect from the discussion of the benefits which they should receive. An example has been set by using 25 per cent of average weekly earnings as the basis for social services and having this twice yearly adjustment. 
I believe that such adjustments should apply to the other allowances as well. One of the things that happens- this is a criticism of State governmentsis that every time there is an increase in the pension, the tenants of Housing Commission houses or flats, welfare housing, in Victoria at any rate, always have their rentals raised and this generally absorbs most of the increase. I think this is something on which a Commonwealth government can have some influence. I think it is a subject on which the Commonwealth should stand up to the States and in housing agreements ensure that these people receiving the limited income from social security payments do not have the increase ripped off them by a State housing authority as soon as they get it. 
My colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  spoke about the funeral benefit and pointed out just how small it is in Australia compared with other countries and really how little it is compared with today 's costs. I think it is unfortunate that in his second reading speech on this Bill the Minister equated the removal of this benefit with the upgrading of the amount to be received by the widow or widower for 12 weeks following the death of the pensioner spouse. There are so many demands in that 12-week period that it is a bit rough to lay another load on the individual and to suggest that the funeral benefit can be removed just because the ordinary benefit will be upgraded or adjusted. 
Finally, I am a bit amused that the Government made a great deal of fuss about dole bludgers. We have just had a debate in the House on the subject. Apart from the guidelines the Government has laid down for eligibility for unemployment benefits it has adjusted the fine from $100 to $500 to try to prevent offences against the Social Services Act. What real effect will that have in the area? Surely the thing to do is to ensure that the Department of Social Security has the proper staffing and set-up that will allow detection of these offences. The Department of Social Security has the same problem, although not quite with the numbers , as the Aus.tralian Taxation Office has in picking up tax evaders. The penalty is no good unless the administrative set-up allows detection of offenders. I do not think this increase in the penalty from $ 100 to $500 will have the slightest deterrent unless administrative procedures are toned up. I know that the House is anxious to get this legislation through. I support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Oxley. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System I bring up a special report of the Committee relating to the resolution of appointment of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. What projections have been made to determine the number of taxpayers who will be deprived of the tax deductibility benefit on mortgage interest repayments as a result of the Government's decision to confine this concession to repayments made in the first 5 years by first home buyers? Is it likely that over half a million taxpayers will lose the right of tax deduction on mortgage interest repayments? Does the Government anticipate a net saving in excess of $200m in the 3 years preceding payments under the home savings grant scheme by a denial of the tax concessions to existing eligible home buyers? 
-Do you seek leave at this stage to incorporate the tables in  Hansard? 

<graphic href="099131197604294_58_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="099131197604294_58_1.jpg"></graphic>

-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. In view of recent speculations about mini budgets can the Treasurer explain to the House whether it is Government policy in general terms- I do not think he knows any other- to reflate or deflate the economy? 
-My question, addressed to the Minister for Health, is supplementary to that asked by my colleague the honourable member for Maribyrnong and is relative to the Minister's answer. Is it a fact that the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association has given notice that its members will not refer patients to nor accept referrals from salaried medical staff employed at the Canberra hospitals? What action does the Government intend to take to ensure that patients are not deprived of their rights in this unilateral fashion by some Canberra medical practitioners? Does this refusal to refer patients to or accept referral of patients from salaried hospital medical staff by private medical practitioners in Canberra constitute a potential or actual threat to the quality of medical care available to Canberra citizens- a threat to their safety and well being? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek the leave of the House to make a brief statement on the same subject. 
-I thank the House. I believe that the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation of this House is to be commended for tabling this Report on land use pressures on areas of scenic amenity, which, as my colleague the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  has pointed out, is the work of the Committee in the previous Parliament. As the honourable member indicated, this was one of several sub-committee investigations carried out by the Committee. It illustrates that with committee investigations members of Parliament generally operate better when the subject matter is interesting and there is considerable public interest. I trunk it would be fair to say that 2 members who worked in this sub-committee area would need to have declared some personal interest. When the inquiry was initiated one member of the sub-committee was the former honourable member for La Trobe,  Mr Tony  Lamb, who chaired the sub-committee. Of course, his electorate encompasses the Dandenong area. The present Government Whip, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  was concerned with the Macedon area, which is in his electorate. So when the inquiry commenced 2 members of the Parliament, one from each side, had a pretty fair knowledge of the problems being investigated because they were associated with the affected areas. 
When it is said that the present Committee cannot express unqualified support for the recommendations of the original Committee, I think it should be made clear that we are not suggesting that the report of the Committee of the last Parliament was an expression of Government attitude. Indeed, it was the result of a decision made by all parties. Of course, the new Committee cannot express unqualified approval of something it has not investigated. 
Although the attitudes of the Government to the issues covered in the report may have changed in their orientation since the original report was written, there are 2 important points which should be made which are still valid. The first is that if a co-ordinated system of land use throughout Australia is to be achieved then planning should not be on a regional basis alone. The nation as a whole has an interest, for example, in ensuring that scenic recreation areas near major cities are preserved. It is obvious that initiatives should be taken by the national Government. Regional planning bodies frequently do not have the resources to handle complex planning problems alone. The Committee's report stresses that the responsibility for ensuring comprehensive planning is a 3-tiered one involving national, state and local government. The other point is that there have been a number of attempts in recent years aimed at solving the problem of land use competition. Few of these seem to have been very successful. One of the reasons for this is that recommended courses of action have been complex and theoretical. In the report we are debating I believe that the Committee has gone out of its way to make the recommendations practical and relatively easy to implement. In this respect it has relied heavily on evidence from State and local government. Co-operation between the 3 levels of government is essential if planning proposals that will both protect the environment in these sensitive areas and preserve the rights of residents are to be found. 
Often there is resentment of investigation by a committee of the national Parliament when matters affect State or local government. With this inquiry, while there was some initial defect in communication on our part, I commend the Victorian Government and local bodies for their generous co-operation in the inquiry. None of the 3 tiers of government should worry about such inquiries. There will certainly be differences of political philosophy, but provision of a public forum, and frank exchange of views and information, will lead to constructive suggestions for solutions of problems. I believe this report will be mutually beneficial to the 3 tiers of government. I join the honourable member for Petrie in thanking the members of the Committee 's staff and the work done on this project. I commend the report to the House. 
-I seek leave of the House to present a copy of the transcript of public evidence taken before the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System in the 29th and 30th Parliaments. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the avowed importance attached by the Government to relations with Australia's neighbours, and in particular our nearest neighbours, will the Foreign Minister be attending the ministerial meeting of the Pacific Forum in Nauru next month? If he is not attending, did he previously plan to attend the meeting? Has he been informed that one of the principal agenda items is to be the alleged Soviet naval threat to the region? Has he been advised that it would be unwise to associate Australia publicly with the sabre rattling declarations on this subject made by the Prime Minister of New Zealand? 
-Last night I listened with some interest to the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  talking about the difficulties that Dandenong Hospital is experiencinga hospital where I delivered my first efforts in private obstetrics. It occurred to me that perhaps I should talk about a similar situation in my electorate, the Northcote Community Hospital, which is bursting at the seams and which carries the highest casualty load of any of the metropolitan hospitals. It can get no priority for expansion from the Victorian Government or assistance from the Federal Government. However, that is not my principal reason for speaking in this adjournment debate. 
Recently there has been considerable Press discussion about the area of West Heidelberg which happens to be in the Scullin electorate and the Batman electorate. There have been some rather alarmist reports on the sort of conditions that pertain there. This report is 2 years old but today we see a greatly changed picture in what is available there. I want to use that example to urge that honourable members respect the program of community health and welfare centres started by  Dr Everingham  when he was Minister for Health in the last 2 Parliaments. West Heidelberg is a good example of the success of these community health and welfare centres. It is an area that had problems because low rent housing was made available  en masse  to many people after the Olympic Games. 
When the opportunity was given to them to say what they wanted for medical treatment and social work and residents of the area, who apparently were downgraded in this report, actively formed their own committee, got expert advice and put up a case to the Federal Government under the community health and welfare centre scheme for such a centre. This enabled them to start originally in a couple of Housing Commission flats, with nurses and social workers who were able to visit homes, who were able to become involved with the community, a community which, despite what was said in that inquiry, was ready to be involved and was ready to play its part and help in the management of such a centre and use the facilities that were there. 
Just across the creek from it is the East Preston area which has a similar make-up. There too, despite the fact that social workers and the like would say that this is an area of great deprivation and with not a great initiative, the residents took the opportunity to ask for and receive from the last Government an appropriate health and community welfare centre which they are helping to manage and which they are using. I think it is important when we get these alarmist reports about deprived suburbs we should lock at them and ask whether there are programs available which allow these people to determine what can be done to improve their lot. In the West Heidelberg area, which has been so alarmingly mentioned in recent days that people have shown that they are quite capable of using opportunities when they are given to them. 
-Firstly, I would like to correct one matter, namely a statement made by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  when he spoke about an hour ago in the debate. The honourable gentleman is well known for his expertise in the health field. We understand that earlier in the year he was an adviser in respect of a pamphlet which was drawn up to explain the Government's changes to Medibank and health insurance, a pamphlet which proved so inaccurate that it was quite useless when it went public. The honourable member made a statement with regard to pensioner medical cards. He stated that the decision to withdraw pensioner medical cards from persons who had a part pension entitlement because their incomes went over the means tested limit when pensions were increased was an act of the Labor Government. If the honourable member had any knowledge of that health service he would know that the level at which pensioner medical cards were obtainable was a matter of agreement between the Government and the Australian Medical Association, which is the representative of the doctors. It was the doctors who enforced this limit. They said that they would not treat everyone who was entitled to some portion of a pension but set certain limits on the people they would treat. The pensioner medical cards had to be withdrawn to honour that agreement. So much for that argument. 
Before addressing myself to the general theme of the Budget I would like to make some comment on this area of parliamentary discussion which in my view is open to a great deal of reform. Apart from members from both sides of this place who make the leading speeches on the Budget it is impossible for the ordinary member, because of time limits, to make a meaningful comment on the details of the Treasurer's Budget Speech and, of course, the vast field which a Budget covers. This difficulty is accentuated in this year's Budget debate by the fact that the Budget must be considered in conjunction with the mini-Budget of May and in particular the various guidelines that were laid down in that financial statement of May. It may be said that further opportunities for debate are given when we consider the Estimates. But this has led to the Estimates debate being a mere extension of the general Budget debate when properly it should be an examination of the Estimates with particular attention to details. 
In particular the Budget debate should explain to honourable members and to the general public what the Budget is all about. It seems to me that under proper circumstances the section of the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  headed 'Economic Strategy and the Budget' should be the area in which most time is devoted. But the procedure of the House does not allow us to do this in a detailed manner. For example, earlier in this debate I listened to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who is a distinguished member in financial matters, start to develop the theme of examining the economic strategy of the Budget. However, he was unable to do so in a comprehensive manner because of the limits we impose. I suggest that at some time in the future the House should apply itself to considering an improvement in procedures. After all, the Parliament should be a microcosm of the people it represents. 
There are very few professional, although many amateur, economists in the Parliament. I find most members as confused about economic strategy as the public is bemused. 
-I am quite willing, if the honourable member for Darling Downs finds that remark offensive, to withdraw it in his case. The honourable member's economic expertise and his expertise in most matters are well known to us all. The debate should elucidate the Budget not only for the members of this place but for the community as a whole. 
I do not know how the Treasurer can find public satisfaction with the Budget, as he asserted in answer to a question asked yesterday. I find a lot of confusion about it in the community; but perhaps the Treasurer sees a different public from the one we see. Perhaps the public to him constitutes the entrepreneurs who, by their control of capital and investment, manipulate the employment, and lack of it, of human beings in the community, apply pressure to governments, require subsidies and bounties to keep them going, defraud members of the community- all in the name of free enterprise and profit- and who can manipulate and destroy small businesses by controlling supplies, applying pressures and so on. These persons, of course, are respectable and do not attract the condemnation and ire that are applied to persons who gather to demonstrate in order to press their point of view and to show their needs. The Government indeed has variable standards of respectability. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The Government hopes, by repetition of the cries that all public enterprise is bad, that increased unemployment is the most suitable tool to control inflation and that all ills arise from the acts of the previous Labor Government, all of whose acts were bad, to convince itself and others that these are articles of faith and fact which are quite irrefutable. What nonsense! I. retreat from none of the programs that the Labor Party introduced when in government. They all fulfilled a need. 
The economic program is mentioned. As my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  pointed out, the purchasing power of the average wage was increased in that time, despite all the doom that is cried by honourable members opposite. Let me remind present Government members of the years preceding 1972 when Australians became frustrated and impatient with the lack of roads, schools, hospitals, sewerage, environmental protection, health care and so on, the dilatory approach to those in receipt of or needing social services and the neglect of the Aboriginal people, which was so bad that when employment figures are quoted now they are inaccurate because at that stage there was no recording of them, or a poor recording of them and lack of attention to them. 
The Labor Government was elected to correct that situation. Despite persistent obstruction, it started to do so. A period of world-wide recession and high inflation started about that time. In Australia it appeared to be accentuated by the necessarily raised public expenditure. None of the present Government spokesmen has given real arguments for their claim that the programs that we introduced were unnecessary and wasteful. They do not identify any of them. In fact, in his speech the Treasurer, in dealing with the economic strategy, states basic assumptions without validating arguments. Honourable members quote from various of the Budget Papers. It seems to me that many definite assertions and assumptions are being made, whereas if one reads the papers one sees that there are lots of let-outs. For instance, in Budget Statement No. 2, page 24, the first paragraph, the first sentence is a let-out. It reads: 
It first needs to be said that no one can accurately foretell the path which the economy will follow. 
The Statement goes on to say: 
The following description of the  possible  path of the economy over 1976-77 may then, indeed  will,  prove to be incorrect in detail if not, hopefully in the broad. 
What a glorious let-out to all those firm assertions that are made! The Treasurer speaks of this year's ministerial council meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the agreement there on economic strategy which has as its basic premise the view that: ... the steady economic growth needed to restore full employment and satisfy rising economic and social aspirations will not prove sustainable unless all Member countries make further progress towards eradicating inflation. 
I do not know that anyone disagrees with the basic premise in the capitalist countries that inflation is the prime target. If we accept that it is the main target, we also have to accept the Treasurer's statement when he quotes from the communique '. . . because of the virulence of recent inflationary experience' and we also have to accept that that refers to all countries in the Western world, not just Australia. That invalidates many of the assumptions made. Let me exemplify that. Last weekend's  National Times  contained an analysis of the Budget. Significant with regard to the basic assumptions was this statement, which was posed as a question: 
There is an underlying theme in the Budget that recovery cannot occur until the profit share of the cake returns to more normal levels. Is there anything to this notion? 
The reply was: 
In fact the major reason for the current discrepancy between the present and historical levels of the profit share is precisely the recession. If recovery were to occur, business would find that its share of the cake closely resembled past levels. 
It went on with expansion of that statement. It seems to me that this is a chicken or egg first situation. On what basis does the Treasurer assert that the profit share must be raised before recovery occurs, when there is that conflicting view? He postulates it as an article of faith and does not argue it. However, I do not wish to proceed further on that general examination, because there is a more specific matter with which I want to deal. 
The Government has put forward the argument that we must have increased productive capacity. Some of us would say that the increased productive capacity can be obtained by using our own present productive capacity potential; that it is being utilised to far less than the full extent. Whichever argument is correct, we need skilled workers now and we will need them in the future. The real reason for failure to progress in a number of areas will be the fact that within 3 to 5 years we are going to experience a crippling shortage of skilled workers. This is not just a political party point of view, it is the view of both employer and employee organisations, of teachers and of the Technical and Further Education Commission itself. I refer to the Technical and Further Education Commission report for the triennium 1977-79 at page xxiii. 
Government supporters- We believe you. 
I am going to emphasise it to honourable members opposite. The report says: 
Australia does not possess sufficient skilled manpowereven during the current economic recession which is characterised by high unemployment. This national problem is aggravated by a fall in the numbers of skilled immigrants and too few Australians undergoing skill training. 
Time prevents me from quoting all of the next paragraph, part of which says: 
There exists an imbalance in the allocation of resources in the post-school sector which is the result of past policies of both Commonwealth and State Governments. 
We are not talking just about the immediate past. The Labor Government made a start in this area. The Kangan report was produced. A start was made. Honourable members on the Government side say that we spent too much. This was in fact an area in which we spent too little. They cannot have it both ways. I think we started too slowly. One of the problems that arises with the program being put forward by the present Government is that insufficient increase has been made in this area. The Commission comments that a triennial program based on the growth rates for Commonwealth grants of 5 per cent for 1978 and 1979 which was laid down in the guidelines of May will fail to take account of increased enrolments during the triennium. The Commission points out all the things that will now from that, with the lack of skilled persons. It has been commented on at State level. I thought that the Director of Technical Education in Victoria,  Mr Watts,  at the recent TAFE conference in Melbourne put it pretty well when he said: 
Metaphorically the story is one of 'Cinderella' returning from the richness of the ball of expectations to the rags of midnight reality. Literally the proposed grants for 1977-79 period are bitterly disappointing and are only sufficient to ensure a stunted rather than a reasonably healthy development of technical education. 
One thing is for sure; we will not fix this problem without additional expenditure and facilities. We cannot dodge this. One of the fears is that unless we act in this area not only will we be short of skilled workers but also there will be pressures to have in-service vocational training, which is not desirable in training properly skilled workers due to the effect on productivity. There are so many variables in this area that have not been thought of. Other factors come into it. 
This Government has indulged in a prime display of Public Service bashing. This will affect the career opportunities offered by the Public Service for white collar workers. The service industries, banking and finance will not take the extra unemployed. This lack of opportunity and added unemployment will lead to lack of opportunities in the blue collar field. It is really pretty useless to tell school leavers to go back to school for another year until things get better. After all, the Government is talking of an educational expenditure with about a 2 per cent real growth, which will be neutralised in part just by keeping kids at school longer. We have to bear in mind other factors as well. We have to remember developmental programs that were started and the finance that is necessary for them in the tertiary institutions; the problem of the incremental creep whereby as people go up the ladder the 2 per cent real additional expenditure is reduced. The Government forgot the Kangan report which said that vocational training should be accessible to all and that it should not only help individuals but also produce skilled persons. To me, that whole concept is dead. Under the programs that are put forward in this Budget it is not possible to achieve these aims. So while we are talking about stimulating industry and productivity one fact comes from this Budget- we are going to have a shortage of skilled labour. 
-I ask the Minister for Health: What suggestion or direction has the Minister given to Medibank for the inclusion of dental and prosthetic benefits such as spectacles in its schedules to allow it to compete on equal terms with private health funds? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. Has the Papua New Guinea Government sought a rearrangement of the Australian shareholdings in Air Niugini that would enable Ansett Airlines of Australia to increase its shareholding to 25 per cent or an even more substantial amount to the exclusion of Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd? has the Government rejected the request? If not, why not? 
asked the  Teasurer,  upon notice: 
1 ) What projections have been carried out to determine the number of taxpayers who will be deprived of tax deductibility of mortgage interest rates as a result of the Government's decision to confine the benefit to first home buyers in their first 5 years. 
Is it a fact that over half a million taxpayers could lose the right of tax deduction. 
Does the Government anticipate a net saving in excess of $200m in the 3 years preceding payments under the Home Savings Grant Scheme by denial of tax concessions to existing eligible home buyers. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer and refers to some confusion caused by alterations with regard to Medibank. Will the Treasurer inform the House why the Medibank levy exemption forms make provision for exemption from the Medibank levy for a working wife whose husband purchases private health insurance at the family rate, but make no provision for exemption from the levy if her husband pays the Medibank levy at the family rate? Is this omission a calculated attempt by the Government to make the administrative arrangements for married levy payers as complicated as possible in order to force them into private health insurance? 
-In speaking to the appropriations for the Parliament, I want to spend most of my time discussing the way the Estimates are actually presented to the Committee. I am going to make a 3-sentence remark on the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I endorse the amendment. I believe that the attitude of the Government that the end justifies the means and that the matter is over and we should forget it is wrong. I think the Opposition is right to express its abhorrence of what occurred, on its own behalf and on behalf of a lot of Australians. Having said that, I wish now to deal with the question of the form in which the Estimates are presented to the Committee. During my membership of both this Parliament and the Victorian Parliament I have tried to show an interest in the working of parliamentary committees and in the procedures of the Parliament and the Committees of the Whole in the Parliament itself. Parliament has recognised that there should be financial oversight of the Executive. The Public Accounts Committee has existed in this place for many years to serve in an auditing function. More recently, the formation of the Expenditure Committee indicated that Parliament felt it should look at other areas. Yet when dealing with Appropriation Bills, when the House goes into Committee to discuss the Estimates department by department, I feel that the form of presentation does not allow the more detailed examination of the Estimates that it should allow. The debate tends to become a general debate. 
In 1 97 1 1 had the opportunity in Ottawa to talk to officials about the Canadian approach to estimates, and I received copies of the form taken by the Estimates. In the middle of last year I had the opportunity to follow the matter up with the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. In mentioning the Canadian system, I might comment that there is one undesirable aspect of their examination of the Estimates. The Estimates are referred to committees for examination and, if a committee has not reported by a certain date, the Estimates are deemed to have been examined and reported upon. I do not think we should copy that system exactly. However, there is a provision in Canada for the Opposition, when examining the Estimates, to nominate for substantial debate a couple of the major heads of the Estimates. In our own Parliament the Government does negotiate but tends to fix time limits for the estimates of the various departments and for what it considers to be the major debate. Under the Canadian system, there is an opportunity for the Opposition to specify for debate a couple of the heads of Estimates. 
Then there is the question of the form of presentation of the Estimates. Unfortunately, the foreword to the Canadian Estimates occupies about 414 pages and I do not want to try the tolerance of the Committee by suggesting that it be incorporated in  Hansard.  But honourable members who care to read that foreword will find that the Canadian Government radically changed the presentation of the Estimates in about 1970 or 1971. Their presentation is a budgeting by programs. Paragraph 4 of the foreword comments: 
The decision of the Government of Canada to adopt a system of budgeting by programs, a 'Planning, Programming, Budgeting System', with its emphasis on defining program objectives and showing the full costs for each program, was also a determining factor. 
In other words, it is a determining factor in the way the Estimates are presented to Parliament. Other details show that, by giving the program and activities tables, they were able to identify the objects of expenditure under a number of standard headings- personnel, transportation and communications, information, professional and special services, rentals and so on. There are 12 heads in all. This allows the member reading the Estimates presented in that form to identify readily how the estimate of the department for that program is made up and to offer constructive comment on the balance within that appropriation for the particular department. After all, that is what we are all about in this Committee debate on the Estimates. We are trying to probe how the money is being applied, the method by which it is being applied, and the various factors that go to make up the cause for the expenditure. In the Canadian system, the table is clearly made out and a commentary is inserted after the table. The ordinary back bench member of the Parliament, by turning to the program, has pretty ready access to the details of the program and can, by his experience and his knowledge of what is going on, make a meaningful contribution to the free and detailed debate in the Committee stage. 
I am not suggesting that that is the only way in which Estimates could be presented to this Committee, but I believe that there are a number of advantages in that system. We as a Parliament have shown our concern by appointing committees for the general examination of past expenditure in the form of public accounts and for all aspects of expenditure generally by the recent appointment of the -Expenditure Committee. I think the Expenditure Committee would be helped by this form of presentation of Estimates. But having shown that interest I think we ought to look at the Canadian system and at systems that are used in other parliaments in order to design a new form of presentation for this Parliament. I suggest that under its committee system this Parliament could well appoint a short term select committee to investigate the presentation of the Budget and the Estimates and to report back to the Parliament. I think it should be a committee which is separate from the Public Accounts Committee and from the Expenditure Committee, because those committees, I suggest, already have inbuilt views because of the nature of their activities. While joint committees of the Parliament are always most difficult to administer, the occasion of the presentation of the Budget is perhaps one in relation to which the Senate, whose appropriation we want to reduce, should be invited to join with the House in discussions so that it has the opportunity to provide in the consideration of the Estimates any useful information it may have gained from its experience of Estimates Committees. Having had a shot on the amendment for a start, I trust that I have added, by way of my suggestion with regard to the Estimates, something which honourable members will consider with a view to improving the debate in Committee in the future. 
-In speaking to this section of the Estimates I would firstly express regret, as I suggested recently, that the Opposition does not have a chance as of right to nominate an area in which its supporters may ask for substantial debate on these Estimates. These are the major Estimates, yet the time for the debate is rather limited. It is also in this area that some of the greatest initiatives were shown in the last 3 years. In the discussion that has followed the dismantling of the original Medibank, other aspects of initiatives in health have been forgotten. I refer particularly to the community health centre program and to the hospital improvement program. It is in regard to the community health centres that I wish to speak because my electorate is one that is quite markedly affected in this way. 
The West Heidelberg Community Health and Welfare Centre has been operating for some time in temporary premises. Recently the Committee of Management of the Centre postponed its annual general meeting because of the demand by residents for an opportunity to express their support for the Centre and their opposition to the State Government's instructions that construction of a building to house the Centre be deferred, that no new staff be employed and that staff who leave are not to be replaced. Of course, the last of those directions is the one that most concerns the Management Committee in the immediate future because it seems to imply that the community health program is to be allowed to wither away in Victoria. This is bad for morale of the staff and the residents who are involved with the Centre. The long term concern of the residents is that the Commonwealth Government should continue to fund the community health program. 
It is interesting that at this public meeting that was held on 24 August over 400 people attended on a cold winter night. The comment is made in the report on the meeting that in that area an attendance of 100 at a public meeting is considered to be exceptionally high. It was said that this was the largest meeting in West Heidelberg since the area was first occupied after the Olympic Games in 1956. At the meeting the feeling was almost unanimous. The interesting part was that a lot of the argument was put by  Mr Bruce  Skeggs, Liberal M.L.A. for Ivanhoe, and Councillor Jean Baker, who was the endorsed Liberal candidate for Bundoora in the last State election. These 2 persons espoused the new federalism that is put forward by this Government and the altered relationship between the Commonwealth and State governments. Unfortunately, when the new federalism does not suit them, they say that the State Government will meet the necessary percentageafter all, 10 per cent of nothing is nothing- and they then suddenly find that the new federalism is not so good, so they assure the people that they will be asking for extra grants. Be that as it may, the tone of the meeting of residents was such that it ended up with the following resolution which was proposed by the defeated Liberal candidate for the State seat of Bundoora, Councillor Jean Baker, in the following terms. 
This meeting expresses its wholehearted support for the Committee of Management of the West Heidelberg Community Centre and for the work of the Centre in West Heidelberg and demands that the State Minister of Health: 
reconsider the decision to defer the new building for the Centre and 
b ) lift the ban on the replacement of staff and 
make representations to the Federal Minister of Health to release funds so that the Centre may proceed. 
So much for the new federalism. The other thing about the State Government attitude to this Centre - 
-I realise that the honourable member has difficulty in hearing, but if he listens he will recognise the inconsistency of the attitude to the new federalism and the assurance that there will be a request for extra Commonwealth finance. The other point I wish to make is the Government's failure to appreciate that these community health centres are not just treatment centres but are out-reaching organisations for the community that deal with many social welfare aspects as well. The same problem is occurring with the East Preston Health Centre for which a $lm building is under construction. Recently the staff for that Centre, which is in temporary premises, was frozen at an administrator a typist, 2 social workers and a nurse. Permission to advertise for a salaried doctor was withdrawn because, under the changed agreement between the Commonwealth and the State, the Centres request for a salaried doctor was not approved. It was insisted that health care must be on a feeforservice basis. 
There are other things that I want to talk about so I will have to move off the community health program. I want to refer briefly to a social service matter. In the West Heidelberg area of the Scullin electorate a project for unemployed selfhelp PUSH- has been established. The focus of the project is on unemployed school leavers because there are many in the area. In January 1976, of the 3055 registered unemployed in the 
Heidelberg zone, 1018 males and 732 females were under 2 1 years of age. The West Heidelberg Community Centre has given permission for the establishment of a voluntary 'drop in' centre in an attempt to institute a job creation program to cover community jobs such as small household repairs and actively assist the unemployed to find work in the community. There is no Government finance to assist an effort such as this. An outlay of probably less than $4,000-say, $3,000 to allow salary payment for a coordinator and a certain amount for furnishings, telephones and sundries such as stationerywould allow this voluntary group which is already operating in this area to do a very effective job in working for these unemployed persons who are under 2 1 years of age. 
In another area in my electorate, the PrestonReservoir area, in January of this year 1800 people were receiving the unemployment benefit, according to Department of Social Security figures. A Preston-Reservoir employment action group has been formed with the support of such organisations as the Intra-Church Council, a whole range of welfare organisations in the area, the unemployed themselves and local service clubs. The group desires to establish a centre with focus on community action against unemployment. The centre would be used, firstly, to inform people of their rights and to ensure that they are protected; secondly, to provide ways in which unemployed can be meaningfully involved in using their skills, irrespective of whether the inter-industry market requires them; thirdly, to act as a local pressure group on the labour market; and fourthly, to encourage the unemployed to be involved in implementing these aims. The Department of Social Security ought to encourage such voluntary action by providing financial assistance for such centres. 
In the time remaining to me in this debate I wish to protest against the decision of the Department of Social Security to cease giving financial assistance to FILEF- the Federation of Italian Labourers, Emigrants and Familieswhich does so much work among migrants of Italian origin in my own area. FILEF is to be deprived as from 1 January 1977 of financial assistance given to it by the Department. This will inhibit the very great work that FILEF is doing. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-( 1 1.33)- I wish to raise a matter which is particularly appropriate to the Scullin electorate. A very high proportion of the population in that electorate is of migrant origin. It is also one of those electorates containing the highest number of unemployed. Those 2 factors are not unrelated. Certainly the failure of this Government to stimulate any business confidence is not helping the situation. There may be many more urgent factors to be considered than the ones I am to discuss, but I believe that we should not overlook the problem of the disadvantages that the migrant worker, particularly migrant women, in the work force suffers. Under the previous conservative Government we had 23 years of a very substantial migration program which essentially provided work fodder. Certainly for most migrants the opportunities available to them were better than had been available to them previously and they made good use of them. However, no in-depth attitude was taken to satisfying their needs. 
From 1972 to 1975 there was a greater recognition of those needs and increased confidence amongst those in the community of migrant origin. However, the situation is falling back once more. 
I refer to an article in yesterday's Melbourne Age headed 'Headscarfs thin out in the fields'. This article deals with a shortage of labour in market gardens in the Werribee area, but there are some disturbing features arising from it that we should guard against. The article itself is about a 65-year-old migrant woman from Yugoslavia who is picked up at 5 a.m. by a contractor in a bus and transported to a market garden where she spends 8 hours in the field hoeing and gets for doing so $17. I think that an immigration program that leads to that sort of situation is shocking. But more disturbing than that is the comment that the fall in immigration has dried up the traditional source of labour for the farms. One of the contractors said that stepping up the level of immigration is the only way in which to provide enough workers for the market gardeners. If this sort of attitude is allowed to develop I think that the Government will attract great shame. This 65-year-old woman catches a bus at 5 a.m. and works for 8 hours for $17 but that is only one of the unfortunate positions in which many migrant women workers find themselves. 
I refer now to a quite sensitive article in the Medical Journal of Australia of 1 1 September, which deals with a report entitled 'But I Wouldn't Want My Wife to Work Here-A Study of Migrant Women in Melbourne Industry'. It was a research report for International Women's Year by the Centre for Urban Research and Action. I think that this article does a very good job in delineating the areas of concern and will lead many of us to question what Government action is necessary arising out of this report, which was essentially commissioned by the Federal Government although that Federal Government was of a different complexion from the present one. The article commences with a quotation from that report. It reads: 
Considerable changes are required at all levels of Australian society to enable migrant women and their families to have opportunities to develop their potential. ... At a societal level all structures must adjust to bring the reality of present day multicultural Australia into accordance with principles to ensure a fair deal for migrants. Changes are needed in all structures and institutions. 
It is disturbing to go on and find the following comment in this article about the work done by these women: 
These women are resigned to the fact that they often have to work in cold, dirty and foul-smelling situations. The research team found that sore eyes from poor lighting, chest complaints from heavy dusts, headaches from noise and aching legs from working on concrete floors were common conditions. Women were loath to take time ofl* from their regimented or piecework/bonus system employment to seek proper medical attention. In many instances there was a fear of accidents because of inadequate multilingual safety signs. 
I think honourable members will remember my colleague the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  raising the subject of a woman who was killed in a rail accident. She boarded an express train and was unable to read a sign, did not have warning, leapt off it and was killed. The article continues: 
The needs of the children of migrant working mothers, farmed out to relatives or friends, sent to day-care services or in some cases left alone at home, were a constant source of tension to the mother and among concerned neighbours and friends. 
Many of those conditions probably apply to the several-generation Australian working in industry. What is disturbing is that the migrant woman worker goes into that position without the protection of understanding and without the ability to communicate. This article comments that it appears basic that migrant women should be freed, encouraged and trained to articulate their own needs. But why can they not do this? It is a matter of acquiring the language to communicate those needs. English language classes are provided, but when are they provided? They are provided at night, when the woman who has been working in the factory and who has had a long day in the factory has to be at home as a housekeeper and as a mother. In any case, she is probably too darned tired to go out to those classes. It is about time consideration was given to encouraging these women in the work force by devising a system by which they can obtain this training while in the working situation, to gain a knowledge of the language that is needed for communication. Without that there is no way in which they can learn what their working conditions should be, what welfare conditions there are and what health conditions there are. They are working as a matter of economic necessity. So many of them are working because they are thrifty and industrious people. I do not knock them for that. 
In the area of child care the program seems to be running down under this Government. The program is needed to enable them to employ their talents fully and to enjoy the fruits of their labour. It is only when we have a migration program that allows the migrant woman worker to feel the confidence that she can communicate, can make her demands, can understand the conditions under which she works, can feel a position of equality and dignity in the work force that we can be satisfied with that migration program. I believe that for too long this aspect has been forgotten. I have no evidence that the present Government is taking note of these factors. On behalf of so many of the people who live in my area, I urge that urgent action be taken. 
I welcome the opportunity to say a few words on the estimates for the Department of Education. It is unfortunate that sometimes the consideration of a particular section of the Estimates is interrupted. I trust that honourable members will take the trouble to read the lucid comments that were made last night by my colleagues the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and, of course, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  but in particular the honourable member for Fremantle who answered some of the matters that had been raised. It would be inappropriate if we did not pay a tribute to an honourable member who, as Minister for Education between 1972 and 1975, saw the interest of this Parliament in education rise to a level of real meaning and real worth in the community. I think he will be remembered for many long years in the history of education in Australia. 
Having said that, I turn to an examination of the amount available in the estimates for the Department of Education. Some statements have been made about this amount representing some type of real growth. I am afraid that it is impossible to accept that any real growth is contained in these estimates. As a member of the Opposition, the most generous thing that I can say about the estimates for the Department of Education is that we have come to a standstill in relation to education finance. I suppose that there is something to be grateful for in that respect as so many other worthwhile programs have more than come to a standstill- they have been deeply slashed. 
It is unfortunate that the standstill in relation to education will not allow many of the initiatives that were taken to be developed. It is unfortunate that this Government has scrapped cost indexation and thereby placed in jeopardy the viability of the programs of many schools and education institutions. Cost indexation did give them some certainty as to what would be available. The abandoning of that, associated with this so-called rolling triennium, is to be deplored. From the outset the Schools Commission established priorities for schools on the basis of need. I regret that it is very difficult to see in the program presented by this Government an indication that it is prepared to preserve and adopt those priorities based on needs. It is unfortunate that one gets the impression from statements emanating from the Government side of the chamber that the Government is definitely committed to a system of per capita grants to all schools, regardless of need. A warning must be sounded about this for it would be deplorable if this sort of system were adopted and programs for disadvantaged schools and in so many other areas could not be maintained. 
There are some other artificial factors in the education estimates. For example, in the field of migrant education it is noticeable that the child migrant education scheme has been absorbed into the School's Commission program and that this effectively reduces the suggested real growth in the schools' program. In this area I note that whilst the funds for adult migrant education are up from $8.2m to $9.Im, this will maintain the adult migrant education program but will have no real regard to need. If one has any doubts about the need one has only to consider the telephone interpreter service. I am not criticising that service. If one looks at the number of calls for the whole of Australia relating to the major languages we see that the figures were as follows: Spanish, 12 555; Yugoslav, 11 332; Greek, 11139; Italian, 9596; English- surprisingly-6791; Turkish, 6580; and all others, 17 479. Whilst the telephone interpreter service for people facing emergencies is an excellent program, it does indicate the inadequacy of our migrant education program. One regrets that in these estimates there is no indication of development in that area. 
Referring now to the reports of various commissions, if these have been considered by honourable members they must note that the reports were prepared within the financial straitjackets which were applied earlier this year. They were prepared within the financial limits and this deprived the commissions of the power to recommend what really needed to be done. I think the commissions took a courageous stand on many of these factors. They indicated that the funds made available were not going to meet the school needs. The Schools Commission pointed out that even when the Government claimed a 2 per cent real growth in the amount, it had to be seen in the context of an expected 1.1 per cent boost in enrolments. I think the Commission made it quite clear that it could not maintain standards with the finance it was being given. Another important factor it raised was that the Government was cutting back on the capital works program at a time when the climate and capacity for economic construction was more favourable than at any time in the previous 3 years. That point is most important in view of the unemployment that exists and the lapse in the building industry. 
On a previous occasion I referred to the Technical and Further Education Commission report and the availability of skilled workers. I do not intend to say any more about what is going to happen in that area. However, I would like to comment on disadvantaged schools because there is a lot of fear in many areas about the disadvantaged schools' program. It will not be sufficient just to maintain it at the present level because so many programs have indicated the potential and the value of what will come out of it. I find it disturbing- the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  touched on this matter last night- that stories about illiterate students are being used to question the value of education outlays and even to question the value of the State school system. The honourable member for Fremantle pointed out the answer when he asked what was the level of literacy. However, even with these startling stories, literacy has not been greatly improved in recent years. 
I am the representative of an electorate in the Preston region in Victoria where, of the 35 high schools, ten are declared disadvantaged. Of the 19 technical schools, five are similarly categorised and 53 of the 140 primary schools are also similarly categorised. I have had representations from many other schools, such as the Preston Primary School, where a high proportion of the students are of ethnic origin. I believe that a lot more thought must be given not just to keeping the disadvantaged schools program at a certain level but also to developing it because of the benefit that arises from it. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and 
Community Development. Will American nuclear powered warships be visiting Gladstone harbour for rest and recreation following naval exercises? Is Gladstone equipped to handle visits by nuclear powered ships? Is there a naval nuclear ship safety organisation in the area? If not, will the Minister stop the entry of nuclear ships to Gladstone? 
I wish to speak on a matter affecting the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. I acknowledge the interest of that Department in the monitoring of pollution in our environment. I acknowledge its involvement in the worldwide process of monitoring. I acknowledge the interest that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation shows in the measurement of pollution relative to this program. But it is not much use measuring pollution if there is not a back-up that can do something about it. At the moment it would seem that in the industrial situation there is none. 
I would like to cite an example very close to home. Recently a petition of 299 residents of Keon Park was gathered objecting to pollution and noise emanating from the premises of Nonferral Pty Ltd. This problem has been exercising the minds of the Preston and Whittlesea councils since 1962. The particular industry is in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  It processes nonferrous metals. It plays an important part in recycling many of these metals and is a valuable enterprise. But since 1962, when I represented that area in the State Parliament, it has been a constant headache at all levels of government. Since then the company has installed a chimney stack so that the fumes can be carried off at a height which does not- at least should notaffect the nearby residents. Bag filters also have been installed as part of a dust collection system in response to the agitation of the residents and the action of the Preston and Whittlesea councils. 
The powers of the councils to deal with the matter have proved to be quite inadequate. Although prosecutions have been obtained under the nuisance section of the Health Act in 
Victoria the penalty of $40 imposed under the Act could not pose any threat to the continued emission of these fumes from Nonferral. The State Government, through its Environment Protection Authority, has proved unable significantly to abate the nuisance. Fourteen years after the problem became evident the residents of the area still suffer from fumes which affect their eyes and nose, soil washing on the line, peel paint off houses and cars and cause the loss of trees and the absence of birds and wildlife from the area, together with noise pollution. The municipal and State governments have been unable to give the residents relief. 
This is an obvious field in which the Federal Government must take some action to regulate the use of toxic or indestructible materials not only by the development of an adequate monitoring system, which is being attempted at the moment, and of standards of air quality, but also by carrying out a program in conjunction with the State which would allow action to be taken to stop this pollution when it is identified. On the same lines, it is not only a matter of atmospheric pollution but also a matter of noise pollution. Unless the 3 levels of government get together on this matter these sorts of nuisances will persist. While I recognise the program of monitoring that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development is interested in, it is no good having that program unless there is a back-up to it. 
In the couple of minutes left to me I move to another area, the area of community development, that is associated with this section of the Estimates. I refer to the effect that the changes that the Government has brought about in funding local areas of community development has had in my area- on the Preston City Council at any rate- despite the assurances that were given by the Victorian Government that no council would receive less than it received last year. The effective reduction in what can be used in that community, allowing for the drop of $15,000 in the finance available and an inflation rate of 14 per cent, represents a drop of 18 per cent in the community development work which can be done. The political effect of the withdrawal of the funding of the regions for community development has been the loss of worthwhile community involvement and a return to an institution-type government with decisions being made without consultation with the community. However, in the area to which I am referring- region 14- the support for regionalisation is so strong that all the committees set up under the previous 
Government's program are continuing to operate, despite the withdrawal of funds. The withdrawal of those funds has meant that projects such as the South Western Elderly Citizens Club and the Reservoir Branch Library, the sites for which were acquired from these sources, will have to be deferred indefinitely. The abandonment of this program has meant a real loss to the' area. In deference to the Government's desire to get this particular section of the appropriations through I will not delay the Committee any longer. 
-by leave-I have been concerned with this inquiry from its inception in the last Parliament. I should remind honourable members that often such inquiries are started on a very emotional basis. The alarmist reports of destruction of fauna within Australia and the reports from the United Kingdom authorities of mass deaths of birds resulting from attempts to smuggle them through Heathrow Airport brought s very emotional aspect to this investigation in its early stages. In such circumstances it is difficult for a committee of the Parliament to get down to a more objective examination of such a matter. But after interviewing a variety of witnesses, some from government departments and some who were concerned with bird breeding and trading, it was even more difficult to determine the extent of these practices. With the evidence it received the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation could not but be convinced that it was considering a multi-million dollar business. Even more difficult than determining the extent of the practice was the difficulty in substantiating many of the charges that were made. Certain it is that in such a simple sounding subject as fauna trafficking there is a very large criminal element. 
The Committee in its examination had occasion to examine the nature and extent of airport and harbour surveillance for Customs purposes. Given the number of passenger movements and commercial shipping movements through those areas it is difficult to see how adequate protection can be given against smuggling not just of fauna but of anything. As the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  mentioned, an examination of the north and north-west of Australia reminds one of the extent of the coastline, the vastness of the hinterland, the ease of approach by aircraft and boats to those areas and the multiplicity of tracks which will carry 4-wheel drive vehicles, which are a normal means of conveyance in those areas and which do not arouse suspicion. 
I ask honourable members and others who consider the report not to get emotional as a result of the Committee's recommendation for relaxation of the export policy with regard to our native fauna. I know that it is an emotional subject. The honourable member for Petrie emphasised that any such relaxation or export policy should be under strict control and, more particularly, that such export should be based on a sound harvesting policy, which is quite possible when the biology of the animals is known. Another fact that was obvious in this inquiry was the difficulty experienced by authorities in responding to information received. There is a strong reluctance, I think in government departments to disseminate means of transport such as launches and aircraft all over the place, but the Committee was convinced that the special requirements of the Customs authorities for transport facilities warranted the provision of particular aircraft and launches suitable to the task. I am sure that this will be another point on which there will be much argument and discussion but I ask those concerned to realise why it is so necessary that we have an ability to respond. There certainly is an apparent link with other smuggling activities such as drugs. No less important than the external factor is the high rate of internal traffic in fauna. This arises in many ways from the differing legislation in States and Territories. At least we, as a national Parliament, should accept our responsibilities in areas over which we have the power to legislate. We should set an example in the regulations that should be used for harvesting and keeping animals. 
Finally, I want to emphasise 2 other comments made by the Committee. These comments have been made before by other committees of this Parliament. The destruction of habitat is the greatest threat to the preservation of our Australian fauna and this matter must be carefully watched if it is not to be the reason why we lose so many of these birds, animals and so on. The other factor- it has been emphasised before on many occasions- is the paucity of biological surveys in Australia. I urge that this be considered as a matter of urgency. The biological survey progam should be accelerated. It might sound as if I am being emotional in saying this but I remind honourable members, for example, of the medical research done during wartime in producing alkaloidal substances. This would have been much more easily attained if there had been wider biological surveys of flora in this case. I join with the  Chairman  in thanking my colleagues on the Committee, in both the last Parliament and this Parliament. I also thank the staff who showed so much interest and did so much hard work in assisting honourable members to prepare the report. 
-The reference I made to air pollution under the estimates for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, leads me to refer to the same matter under these estimates for the Department of Science. Honourable members who have examined the departmental estimates will see, for example, that the appropriation for the Australian Baseline Air Monitoring Station is some $90,000. Those who take the trouble to look at the 1975-76 28th annual report of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation will have read with interest the comments on atmospheric pollution contained on page 42 of the report. The report comments: 
Research by several CSIRO Divisions is helping to provide the chemical insight needed by industry and pollution control authorities to improve their assessment of particular problems and to develop more effective control strategies. 
The report goes on: 
Increasing industrialization threatens the existing chemical composition of the atmosphere. The recent growth in the burning of fossil fuels is releasing chemical substances in quantities which may corrode building stones, stunt development of vegetation, endanger health or even affect climate by scattering and absorbing radiation entering and leaving the earth. 
Now that covers quite a wide field. Obviously a great deal of work is being done in methods of detection, about which the report speaks in some detail. The report refers to a mechanism which causes the formation of photochemical smog. In other words, there is considerable expenditure for the monitoring of air pollution and for the measurement of air pollution. I spoke previously of a case of some 14 years' duration. Admittedly the industry involved was a valuable industry producing non-ferrous metals but it plagued the area in which it was situated with increasing air pollution. Local government was quite ineffective in handling the problem. State government action was quite ineffective. Yet despite all this expenditure on monitoring and experimental work, we find that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  is reported as saying at page 1924 of the House of Representatives  Hansard: 
As to environment, I am afraid the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  is a bit difficult to come to grips with because he spoke in irrelevancies. The issues that he spoke of having nothing to do with issues of concern to the Federal Government. I understand his point of view, but the limits of my responsibilities under the Environmental Protection Act are accurately described. Matters of national significance come under my orbit and they will continue to do so, as I have made clear in this House on many occasions. What I can do for the honourable member for.Scullin is to talk to my counterpart in the State and perhaps take up the particular issues with him. 
The Minister further says: 
The criticism of the poor old honourable member for Scullin was misdirected completely. 
Well, 'poor' I may be, but I contest the use of the word 'old'. I prefer 'middle-aged'. But at least I am intelligent enough to know that the Minister is completely washing his hands of this particular matter. He could not care less. If we are to expend large amounts under these estimates on monitoring of air pollution, on further developing methods of detection and on developing methods of understanding the chemical and physical processes that go on with this pollution, considering that the other two levels of government have shown themselves quite unable to cope, surely the national government has a responsibility to take initiatives to prevent the shocking effects of this pollution. Otherwise what we will see is more and more expenditure on more and more monitoring, on more and more development of sophisticated detection techniques while the Australian population chokes to death on the aerial effluent. 
We are in a fortunate position in this country. The problem has not developed as far as it has in some overseas countries. I mention the United States. Those who have seen the problems that exist there in the large industrial cities can sympathise with the action that must be taken. Yet understandably there the national government has taken initiatives in this matter, not only in the sense of developing some of the processes we have, but in other areas. I refer to  Time  magazine of October 1 976 which refers to some of the penalties that can be applied in this area. It refers to a $13. 2m fine to be paid by the Allied Chemical Corporation for discharge of waste. Admittedly in this case it was not discharged into the atmosphere but into a stream. So it is no use the national Government washing its hands of this matter. Surely when the other levels of government have shown themselves completely unable to cope with the matter we must show the initiative. It is my turn to burn the Minister because I do not think he can wipe off this problem of air pollution by saying that a particular case was referred to. That particular case is representative of many such cases. It is represented by the smog that one sees accumulating over the great cities in Australia. Honourable members will realise the nature of this problem which has increased in recent years. 
I should now like to raise a query on a much quieter note. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  in concluding his comments on the estimates for this Department, referred to the question of .the hydrocarbon fuels that are being imported and which play so large a part in our economic set up. I wonder whether we are paying sufficient scientific attention to the use of such fuels in various areas. If we use these fuels in the domestic area- I just take this area as an example- what measures are we taking to ensure that they are burnt efficiently and that the energy they produce is used for the purposes for which it should be used? 
I was led to comment on this by a recent report of a project being carried out by the Centre for Environmental Studies at Princeton University. A unit from the Centre, working inside homes, has measured the efficiency of the use of fuels and electricity and showed that some simple processes are quite capable of increasing tremendously the efficient use of the energy delivered to households. Such things as insulation around furnaces can, for a very small outlay, prevent wastage of energy. I do not want to bore the Committee by going through all the various methods that have been demonstrated in the domestic circumstance, but I feel that there should be some investigation on this subject so that we are not wasting a material which is very expensive and a drain on our economy. That applies even to our own fossil fuels such as gas. If we use gas in the home we will get a greater energy benefit from it than if the same amount of gas is burnt in a power plant. Gas produces only one-third as much electrical energy when burnt in a power plant as it would if it was used naturally in the home. I offer these comments because of my concern at the expense to the community and the waste of available energy. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Has the Minister seen recent media reports that the Federal Government was withdrawing from the field of environmental impact inquiries? Are the reports correct? If not, can the Minister assure the House that a complete environmental impact assessment has been made of the major Coffs Harbour woodchip proposal to export 300 000 tonnes of woodchips per annum for the next 1 5 years? 
-Is leave granted? 
-It is obvious from the attitudes expressed in this debate that honourable members accept this as a holding piece of legislation and that the more vital debate will take place some time in the future. That is in contrast to the spirited debate that accompanied the 1972 renewal of the softwood forestry agreements. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  has been wise in expressing the concern he has. I believe that such concern must always be in the forefront of consideration of these matters. 
I have some concern. The Government has referred a number of factors contained in the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on the softwood forestry agreements for examination by bodies which previously had a preconceived view of the matter in that they had prepared material for the Forwood Conference and, indeed, had given evidence before the Committee. I am not suggesting that there was any conscious act on the part of those people examining it. But I suspect it would be rather difficult, having made up one's mind that a certain course of action was right and that certain facts were beyond question, to sit back and remove oneself from that opinion and express a fresh opinion because of the recommendations that were made. 
In discussing the softwood plantings, perhaps we should realise that much of the debate in regard to this matter is like much of the debate with regard to other agricultural products. The questioning in the community of the need for further clearing of land for plantings of other crops applies just as much to softwood plantings as it does to many of the grains. After all, in those crops we are dealing with material that is used for food. Many members of the community are interested in the very versatile material that comes from this crop- timber- in the building of their homes. That is a versatile material that can be put to many uses. The foresters have shown that they are extremely competent in growing the crops, particularly softwood. The softwoodspinus radiata and so on- enjoy an excellent prospect of growth in Australia because of the freedom from pests found in their countries of origin. During the course of the inquiry into this matter, the parallel was drawn constantly between the growth of eucalypts in California imported from Australia and the growth of softwoods in Australia. Eucalypts are growing very well because of the lack of their natural predators. With the rapid rate of growth of softwoods, we are talking about a 20-year to 25-year cropping instead of the 80-year cropping in trying to regenerate hardwood forests. 
Added to this concern and questioning that has built up in regard to the clearing of further areas for the growing of crops, with these agreements we have the fact that most of the growth is taking place on public land. The farmers growing the crop are public fanners. They are employees of the various State governments. There is a massive injection of public money. Of course, the end product goes into private industry. I suppose that that is fair enough in the economy where it is used for useful purposes, provides employment and so on. But it means that there must be a heightened public interest in the programs that are carried out. I  referred to the  rather spirited debate that took place in 1972 with the renewed agreement. I remind honourable members that, at that time, we were in Opposition. It was before the Australian Labor Party became the government. An amendment was moved to the Bill which sought to establish the agreements. The spirit of the amendment was not in opposition to the Bill but criticised the failure of the then Government to prepare and to publish in consultation with the States a national plan for: (a) The full use and development of Australia's forest resources; and (b) the conservation of existing hardwood forests and associated flora and fauna in relation to softwood plantings. At the time, the first Government speaker, who followed the mover of that amendment in the debate, referred to it as frivolous. I do not think that present honourable members would accept it as a frivolous amendment. What was being said was what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition put today which I think would be accepted, that is, that we cannot look at the softwood agreements in isolation from the other forestry resources. 
At some stage we have to consider what we do about the total timber industry- the total forestry industry- for economic and resource reasons in addition to the environment and conservation aspects that have been mentioned. I make passing reference to that debate. I think it is well worth reading. One point shines through in it and that is the importance of economic considerations in making judgments on these matters. The Tasmanian members of the Australian Labor Party Opposition at that time were most vocal in discussing the legislation because so much of the economy of that State depended on the softwood plantings that took place there. I think that they properly talked of those matters. 
I turn now to the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation which dealt with the reference on the operation of the Softwood Forestry Agreements Acts. It was a report in which I had a great interest as Chairman of the Committee at that time. After some months of consideration of the matter, I must admit that I was becoming pretty sick of pine trees. I would not have cared if I never saw another one. We took the trouble to see how these plantings were carried out in the various States. We examined not only the principles being used in the growth, actual farming and harvesting of the crops but also what measures were taken to ensure protection for the natural environment and the natural flora and fauna. There was a great difference among the States on that matter. Of course, because of the importance of our overseas suppliers, we visited New Zealand to look at that country's resource. I think that honourable members who have read the report of that Committee will have noted the summing up contained early in the report of the need at the time for that type of inquiry. There had been an intense polarisation between the timber industry and those who were talking on the conservation side. The Committee summed up that argument on page 2 of the report in these words: 
The Committee's report will attempt to be fairly representative of this debate. 
That is the debate that was going on at the time. 
It hopes that by placing the issues in perspective a national approach to the future legislation can be reached. Due to the complexity of the problems connected with forestry and the paucity of knowledge on its environmental and social effects, this approach may appear to be cautious. It is hoped that by considering all the elements adverted to in this report, that caution will be seen to be justified. 
I believe that that statement is just as valid now as it was then. It is a matter for caution because of the involved nature of forestry, and because of the difficulty in divorcing from a consideration of softwood forests consideration of hardwood forests, the preservation of native forest and many natural features of our environment. 
If we examine Australia's timber resources we find that Australia really has very little quality forest for its area. If we take a liberal view- I spell that with a small '1', not a political '1'- Australia has less than 6 per cent of its land in forest. I made the point earlier about public involvement, and there should be when of that 6 per cent, 78 per cent is publicly owned and some 35 per cent of that is dedicated to timber production of all sorts. So there should be still greater scope to use our native forests if we apply proper principles to that use. There must be an appeal when talking of softwood forestry plantings for consideration of proper use and the proper use of alternatives. One of the great arguments for the softwood program revolves around the demand that without softwoods would be made on our native forests which, as I mentioned before, have an 80 or 90 year regeneration cycle and would be incapable of regenerating and keeping the flow of timber going. 
Along with this we are told that there is an impending shortage of softwoods from overseas. In relation to that suggested impending shortage, the Committee was given varying views, and it depended on which side of the Tasman you were, about the availability of New Zealand softwood resources for Australian use. Because this matter is so tied up with the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement and the general economic structure of both countries the Committee was unable to make a firm decision. This is one area in respect of which the Parliament should ask the Government: What is the situation from the Government's point of view with regard to the future reliability of softwood from New Zealand? We believe that substantial encouragement could be given to Australian companies to get long term contracts for supply from New Zealand. We were assured in New Zealand that it had the capacity to supply and would look for such long term contracts. New Zealand certainly can grow softwoods very well. Admittedly it can do so because it has just about completely destroyed its native forests, in the North Island at least. I hope that we would not want to follow New Zealand's example in that sense. I would like further information about the supply of timber from New Zealand and what firm commitments we could get before we make a final decision on the new agreement. 
Arising from that would be factors which determine the extent of our future softwood planting program. Obviously when talking of a crop that takes the length of time that this takes to grow there must be a deal of forward planning to see that we would have a harvestable crop at the time when it will be needed to be used by industry. In looking at this question the Committee suggested that the predicted planting rates were too high, and here again it took the cautious approach. Against that it felt that the financial commitment under the old agreement was too short to be effective and that if the softwood program was to continue at the diminished rate further consideration should be given to more certainty of finance. Certainly more frequent examination should be made of the predictions for use, the progress of the plantings and the likelihood of the material being available. These are the sorts of things that we need to be informed about if we are to make a proper judgment on the fresh agreement when it comes up. 
I do not think that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  was being too harsh when he asked that this sort of information be made available to the House, because it is basic to the whole question of land usage and the proper financing with public monies of a public crop that will be used by private industry. My colleague the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  made some comment about the environmental hazards of softwood forestry. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to the obvious- the lack of undergrowth, the lack of secondary growth in softwood forest areas and they are the features one can see when examining these areas. The things that do concern us are more hidden; for example, the effect on, say, the quality of water in these areas. In fact, the areas might be quite stable and there may be no effect on the water quality but to date one has the impression that too little examination has been done in the way of environmental impact statements for the foresters or the public bodies concerned to be able to say with certainty that water quality, the habitat for our native fauna and a number of other matters would not be affected. So the appeal for environmental impact statements is a reasonable one. 
Another matter that arises, and this was exhibited fairly well in Victoria, is the necessity for the States to give some consideration to appropriate land use bodies. There was intense public interest in how the determination for the use of land for this and other purposes was made. I mention in passing the importance of proper land use bodies at State level which are able to specify the areas and to ensure that there is proper use. As I said earlier, we must also consider the clearing of native forest for other crops. There is a lot of land being cleared for taxation advantage and its clearing is quite ineffective in respect of the growing of productive crops. 
Reference has been made to marginal farm land as being an appropriate type of area for softwood planting and that view requires further encouragement. All in all, I welcome this legislation and hope that answers to enough of the questions that have been raised seeking further information will be given before the next agreement comes forward, and that there will be a sound inquiry into not only softwoods but also the whole of our timber resources and the general question of forestry to give us guidance in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time- 
Message from the Governor-General recom mending appropriation announced. 
I want to raise a matter before the House concerning a voluntary group carrying out effective social welfare work in my electorate which has been thwarted in its progress by the inability of 2 government departments to decide on a definition. It has been brought to my attention by  Mr Kevin  Gould, the Honorary Secretary of the City of Heidelberg Emergency Housing Group that this organisation is experiencing difficulty in ascertaining whether it is eligible to receive any financial support, either now or in the very near future, from the present Government. Very briefly, this group's history is that it commenced in September 1973 and decided to set up a shelter to provide short term accommodation for those in need. The group obtained a house for a rental of $25 a week from November 1973. It furnished the house and put the first couple into it on 2 November 1973. In the 882 days of operation until 3 1 March this year the group received 312 requests for shelter from 991 organisations seeking shelter for 1359 persons, I might add that the majority of the requests came from Commonwealth Government departments. The group was able to provide shelter for only 269 of those people which, as honourable members will realise, is less than 20 per cent of what was needed. The group has provided an average of almost 5 beds a night in the time to which I am referring. 
It can accommodate up to 10 persons in the 4- roomed house. The present problem is that sewerage must be connected to the house which the group rented, which is in the electorate of Diamond Valley. The owners, who are believed to be land developers, will demolish the house and develop the site, which is well in excess of 1 acres. The group has been offered land by the Hospital and Charities Commission for a quite reasonable price but needs some financial assistance in order to continue its charitable work in assisting, in a very positive way, the less fortunate members of our community. 
The group has already had one problem with governments in that it sought registration with the Hospital and Charities Commission in March 1975 but, due to the inefficiency of that Commission, it did not obtain registration until July 1976. The group forwarded a submission for a grant or subsidy for rent under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act 1974. This is where the strange situation starts. The group received a letter dated 3 February 1976 from the Department of Social Security which states: 
As you are aware, your Group's application for subsidy under the Homeless Persons Program was referred to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, in order to test eligibility as a Women's Refuge. The Commission has now informed this Department that 'the organisation does not come within the Program's (i.e. the Community Health Program) recognition of a Women's Refuge as it catered for deserted wives and single parents'. 
In other words, it catered for parents who were other than women. The letter continues: 
Since the receipt of this advice, this Department has reconsidered your group's proposal. However, from the information available, this Department's central office can only regard the centre as a refuge and, therefore, outside the present scope of the Homeless Person's Programme. 
So we have a situation in which on the one hand one department denies that the group is in a certain category and, on the other hand, another department asserts that it is. Obviously both departments are incorrect, and the charitable work is unable to be carried out. As this matter is urgent I am raising it tonight in the hope that one of the Ministers interested in this area will have a look at the files and not repeat this sort of brouhaha concerning definitions, which is even repeated in a letter from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I hope that some notice will be taken of this problem and assistance given to people who are doing very valuable work for those less fortunate in the community. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Did the Secretary of his Department advise me that my telegram of 7 December was delivered by Telex to the Department's Communications Centre during the evening of that date, but that it did not reach the Secretary, that efforts to discover what may have happened to it have been unsuccessful, and that he was sorry his earlier advice was incorrect. 
If so, will he make further efforts to ascertain what happened to the telegram, how the Department learnt of its contents, and advise me of the result. 
The Minister's answer to parts 2 and 3 of my question which appeared in  Hansard  reads as follows: 
and (3) See the answer to Question No. 934, part 2. The Department learned of the contents through a telephone call made by the honourable member to the office of the Secretary on 1 1 December 1975. 
That is completely untrue. On 10 December 1975 I telephoned the Department inquiring after an answer to my telegram. The officer who spoke to me gave me a message. I asked him: How can you give me a message in reply to that telegram if you have not received it'. He said to me: 'We heard it on the program  AM  on Monday morning'. I wish to make the point clear that I did not tell the department. I was told that they had heard it on the radio. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Transport, relates to his recent announcement that the Bureau of Roads is to be amalgamated with the Bureau of Transport Economics. Did the Minister give an undertaking last August to the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and to the Australian Public Service Association that they would be kept informed about developments associated with the amalgamation of the Bureau? If so, what action has he taken to honour this undertaking? Were the associations given, as promised by the 
Public Service Board, the opportunity to comment on proposals concerning the amalgamation? Is he aware of the serious concern of officers of the Bureau of Roads as to their future? Finally, will the Minister give these officers, whom he has so often praised, an undertaking that they will not be disadvantaged in any way as a result of the Bureau of Roads being absorbed into the Department of Transport? 
I am very conscious of the effects on the electorate that I represent of the economic mismanagement of this Government. My electorate, while it contains substantial industrial and commercial areas, is predominantly a working class dormitory area. 
-I thank the honourable member for suggesting it is well represented. What is causing me increasing alarm, as the electorate is such a working class area and as there is such a high number of young people about to leave school, are the reports that are reaching me and shocking me from voluntary organisations in the area and from the individuals who call at my office in the electorate stressing the hopelessness of school leavers in obtaining employment. The editorial in this morning's Melbourne  Age  which, as I intended to raise this matter today, I noted, is significant for it sheets home a lot of the blame where it lies. It reads: 
The Federal Government has scarcely begun to recognise the extent of youth unemployment now, let alone take measures to cope with the long-term structural problems. There is still afeeeling within the Government that as only 22 per cent of the total unemployed are family breadwinners, unemployment is not so serious as it seems; besides, it is a useful discipline to enforce wage restraint in the -fight against inflation. Other Western countries, by contrast, have pursued much more active policies to reduce unemployment by job creation schemes, emergency employment by public agencies, subsidies to employers to take on jobless young people, and large-scale manpower training schemes. 
All we get from this Government are programs such as the community youth support scheme which will give young people a bit of pocket money for fares if they go and do community service work. The editorial reminded me of an article which appeared in  Newsweek,  the overseas magazine, about 6 weeks ago which emphasised the point that Malcolm Fraser, the Prime Minister, at the last election made dole bludgers a key issue. That article stated that at that time: 
. many of Australia's newspapers ran sensational stories about young and healthy 'dole dollies' who collect numerous welfare cheques under a variety of assumed names and pool the proceeds to live in splendour along Australia's gold coast or used their dole money to maintain comfortable existences as surf bums. 
The article continued: 
Under close examination, some of the sensational newspaper stories have turned out to be more than a little exaggerated. 
I suggest that the records of detection of such illegal obtaining of benefits confirms this attitude. The allegation was a political catchcry by desperate men who claimed to be economic managers but who could prove not much of what they said. In fact, they could not manage a public toilet properly. The article goes on: 
There are some politicians, even in Fraser 's coalition, who fear that the fusillade against the dole bludgers will spark an electoral backlash against the Government- and will also hurt people who really have been victimised by Australia's economic problems. Many young Australians, for instance, find few jobs open to them upon graduation from school. 
Let me follow up that point by reading a letter written by a father who called to see me the other day. The letter outlines one of the many human problems that is occurring because of this Government's mismanagement. The letter reads: 
I wish to bring to your notice an anomaly which I believe exists concerning my son Peter . . . and which no doubt will concern many other school leavers of 1976. 
Peter is 1 7 years old and has been attending Preston Technical College doing 5th form, in 1976. The Trade courses for the three terms were, Plumbing 1st term, Electrical 2nd term, and Carpentry and Joinery 3rd term. 
He has had his heart set on doing Carpentry and Joinery for some years and it is his wish to be apprenticed to the trade. He is not returning to college next year 1977, and he finished his classes on the 5th November returning on the 10th to do his Science exam. 
My wife and myself, since March 1976 up until the present time have been to many builders, joinery works and the like trying to have him apprenticed, but with no luck. 
He has applied to the Railways Department, Telecom Australia, MMBW and the Victorian Construction Company, but up to date no progress. Peter is registered with the apprenticeship commission. 
Last Friday 19th November he registered with the CES for work if possible as apprentice carpentry and joinery. On Monday 22nd he filled in a green form for Social Service, he was told to bring it back to CES at 8.45 a.m. Friday, 26th November, which he did, then he was told that he had to get a clearance letter from Preston Tech College, to the effect that he had finished all of his exams, and that he was not going back to College next year (1977), the Vice Principal told Peter that he could not give him any such letter and told him to go back to the CES. 
We are now dumfounded as to what to do now, Peter cannot get any Social Services until somebody stops the duckshoving. 
Where the blame lies I do not know, but would be thankful if you could find out some facts for me. 
That one case illustrates so much of the present problem and indicates the hopelessness of so many young people who are looking for apprenticeships in the community. Neither this Government nor its State counterpart has been able to satisfy the demand. For every apprenticeship vacancy in Victoria there are goodness knows how many applicants. The letter also shows the hopelessness of these young school leavers in looking for jobs and the lack of assistance that is given. 
With regard to unemployment benefits for a young man who is willing to work and willing to be apprenticed, my inquiries indicate that the Victorian Department of Education has instructed the principals of its schools that they cannot issue certificates, stating that a youngster will not resume school, until the beginning of the next school year. This means that there is collusion to disguise the extent of the problem, to deny young people benefits and to deny them any encouragement. I believe this factor will become much worse in the next few months. On behalf of so many young people affected in my area and in many other areas, I ask that at least some conscious effort be made on this matter instead of this constant mouthing of political slogans by people who claim to be great economic managers but who have shown themselves completely incompetent by worsening a situation many times in the short space of 1 1 months. 
Having said that, I want to briefly deal with another matter. I refer to the Mill Park housing estate which is a T and G Mutual Life Society Ltd project. Advertisements state that the blocks in the development have all services. Many people from the Scullin electorate purchase houses in this area. In fact, 38 per cent of them come from the Reservoir area. The local State member  Mr John  Cain, the honourable member for Bundoora has drawn to my attention that, despite the claim that all services are available, there are no mail deliveries, there will be no telephones for many months and the so-called transport which is available by train and tram is many miles away. I believe that when the company is advertising services such as mail and telephones it should be responsible for honest advertising. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to take a couple of minutes to comment on some of the remarks made with regard to this matter of extra sittings of the House and the importance of the procedures of the House. Mention has been made of the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System and the fact that as yet it has not been debated. I join my colleagues in urging that provision is made for this to be done. It is not sufficient to give extra time to the Parliament on an  ad hoc  basis. It is necessary to look at the procedures of Parliament. The report of the Joint Committee was one on which members of both Houses and of all Parties worked very hard and reached a great degree of unanimity in the findings. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  mentioned the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill as one very suitable for consideration by legislative committees. Having acted as  Chairman  of Committees last year when the Bill of the Labor Government was being considered and again on this occasion, I agree that this would be very proper. But I would like to accentuate that it is not just a question of legislative committees or subject matter committees. What we really should be looking at is the procedures of the House and how they can be reviewed from time to time and brought into line with the increasing legislative load and new matters that come before the House. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="102131197612065_54_1.jpg"></graphic>

I will now deal with the other matters I mentioned earlier, that is, the other provisions of the legislation. I do not disagree with the 10 year option for write-off of transportation facilities. It is 20 years or 10 years at the taxpayer's option. If one accepts that transportation is a part of the productive process, I think this is a reasonable proposition and it is in line with the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. I am in agreement with the provision to allow capital expenditure on the development of a petroleum field to be deductible from income from any source. It is in line with the IAC recommendations. There is, however, some debate in the Press about this particular issue where some companies want to claim the deduction against income where they have to transcend a corporate boundary. 
I believe the Government intended, though it has not been specific, that this deduction should be available to companies which operate as petroleum explorers and developers as distinct from their normal area of business. To give an example, the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd could, within the boundaries of one of its sugar companies, operate a petroleum company and deduct capital expenditure against earnings from sugar. If, however, the 2 distinct areas of business each had its own company structure, the deduction would not be available. I think this is a reasonable proposition and, if companies want to take advantage of the deduction, they would need to re-arrange the articles of association and the nature of the company so as to maximise the benefit of the available deductions. The Opposition would not support this provision being extended beyond corporate boundaries because obviously one would not know where such a course of action would lead. There would be no end to it. 
In respect of petroleum exploration expenditure, under the Government's provisions this will now be immediately deductible against income from any source instead of as previously, petroleum income only. Again the Opposition supports this concept. There is a pressing need in Australia to step up the level of activity in oil exploration. In the last couple of years we have witnessed a dramatic downturn in oil exploration activity and Australia is in the unfortunate position that, unless another major field is discovered quickly- another Bass Strait, if I could put it that way- our indigenous supply will diminish rapidly after 1980. In present day dollar, this would mean the absence of a new Bass Strait, or part thereof and would mean an addition of about $2,200m to the national import bill. Those sceptics who believe mining is pushing the value of the Australian currency to a level that is incongruous with the best interests of other sectors of the economy might just ponder the magnitude of the import slug which will come unless new oil is discovered in Australia. It will not be a matter of revaluation but constant deductions of the currency. 
To this end I mention that the Opposition agrees with and will stand by another provision announced in the Budget which is not the subject of this legislation, and that is the lifting of the $2 a barrel excise on new discoveries of petroleum. This will not be re-imposed by an incoming Labor Government. The last item which I want to comment upon is the alteration of the retention allowance in respect of private companies. The Government has altered the provisions in relation to retention of earnings from 50 per cent to 60 per cent for companies applying, I think, from this year. I find no disagreement with that. I have always believed private companies have been discriminated against when one compares the laws applicable to public companies. The argument is that there is a shareholder pressure on public companies to distribute dividends. I think this is a gross over-simplification. Shareholders are never that organised. Directors generally agree to a distribution which satisfies the bulk of shareholders and keeps faith with the public. But the rate of distribution is exclusively a matter for their judgment. While I agree that one cannot lift the level of retention to 100 per cent because of the sharp characters who would be accruing money into companies and then selling companies off as a capital gain, nevertheless, I think that for a lot of genuine private enterprise in Australia this change would be welcomed. I support it. 
All in all the Opposition, I think, has taken a reasonably pragmatic attitude to the measures introduced in the Budget. The 20 per cent diminishing value basis cannot be defended in my opinion. It is extravagant, particularly in the light of devaluation. But as far as the other measures are concerned, I think they are reasonable and I think that the IAC would share that view. The only disturbing aspect of the events of late, particularly devaluation, is that the Government is determined not to allow any natural structural adjustment between the major sectors of Australian industry. It is constantly making policies to advantage some sectors of industry to the detriment of others. While there had to be some changes in the tax laws to make the sums fit together for a Norwich Park, Nebo, Area C or a Marandoo, the totality of Government policy should be aimed at establishing equal opportunity for growth in the major sectors of Australian industry and should not be made for the advantage of some. 
In conclusion, I point out that the Opposition will not oppose the legislation because that could mean the defeat of some measures which are worth while, but I stress that we oppose the acceptance of a 20 per cent diminishing value basis for allowable capital expenditure for petroleum and mining generally. The Opposition in government would change that figure swiftly to 10 per cent. I think it would also be time then to have a look at the general tax laws which apply to corporate Australia. 
-I move: 
After paragraph (c) of proposed sub-section 16(1) insert the following paragraph: 
to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are provided by commercial broadcasting stationand commercial television stations in the best interests of the general public.' 
This is always a fairly delicate situation with regard to the operation of these stations. This clause already gives the Tribunal the power to determine standards and the conditions under which advertisements may be broadcast or televised and to determine hours. With the power such as the commercial media has, there must also be a great deal of responsibility. It is suggested that there should be a self-regulatory type of mechanism with regard to the types of ! urograms. I have had occasion over the years to look at this problem of self-regulation in other areas, including the area of advertising, where ethics are laid down. One concerns the Press, where there is now a Press Council. I, like many people I talk to in the community, have grave doubts concerning this self-regulatory type of mechanism. In fact, a tribunal which determines these other conditions should also have some regard to the types of program that are being broadcast or televised over these stations. They should present a comprehensive picture. 
One of the problems that we have in Australia is the overwhelming control of the media by a few groups. It is often stated that apart from the ABC, the Australian media is effectively controlled by 4 companies- the Herald and Weekly Times, Fairfax and Sons, News Limited and Consolidated Press. I do not think that in any other country in the world is there such a concentration of the mass media in such a circumscribed area. When we look at these adequate and comprehensive programs, we must also have some regard to the question of what is happening concerning the question of local content in these programs. Approximately 37 per cent of the programs on commercial television are made in Australia. Both the United Kingdom and the United States have a local content component of at least 85 per cent. I appreciate that their facilities for doing so are much greater than ours. They have a much greater viewing audience so that there is a possibility of getting this higher percentage. But I believe, in requesting comprehensive programs, that we should also be asking that there be more than 37 per cent local content. It has been stated in this House many times before, with regard to these programs, that an hour-long American drama costs $400,000 to produce. The same type of program can be produced in Australia for $40,000 but the American programs are imported for about $5,000. 
If the Tribunal, amongst its responsibilities, can use its influence in this way, it will be to the benefit of the community generally. In addition, some concern has been expressed within the community that the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations and the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters believe that in many ways the ABC should not compete with the commercial stations. They believe that only a section of what is available should be left in the ABC area. If this attitude prevails, along with the financial cuts that have been made, we will suffer very much in the area of noncommercial radio and television. At the moment the newsroom of the ABC in Melbourne is on the 15th floor of Marland House at 570 Bourke Street. It is in the position of having antiquated equipment and with staff going down the drain. It is quite inadequate as a newsroom and it is unable to give the coverage that we expect to receive from the ABC. The Labor Party is not alone in asking that regard be given to the types of programs that are exhibited on commercial radio. A public meeting was recently held in Melbourne concerning this matter. It passed the following resolution with regard to the fundamental principles of Australian broadcasting: 
This meeting, in the interests of ensuring that the greatest community benefit is achieved as a result of the current debate on Australian broadcasting, urges all participants to pay due regard to the following fundamental matters: 
That the commercial sector be required to programme a significant and expanding proportion of all types of Australian productions so that our broadcasting truly reflects Australian society and culture and utilises the talents of Australians to the maximum extent. 
The amendment goes further than that. It deals with other areas but I believe that there are worthwhile objectives. I do not suggest that power be given to the Tribunal to use the big axe m the commercial area but that it should have a general responsibility to see that there is adequate and comprehensive programming by the commercial stations in the best interests of the general public and not just programming which is necessarily financially rewarding. I did not have the opportunity to speak during the second reading debate on the Bill and so I feel somewhat restricted. Therefore, I shall speak to this clause which, in dealing with the powers of the Tribunal, mentions standards, conditions and hours. Now, this amendment deals with the type of programming that should be undertaken. But it seems to me that it is an indication of how hastily this legislation has been prepared that there are so many other factors that should have been the subject of public debate before the matter was brought before the Parliament. There are matters in the Green report- now a public report although the result of a private inquiry- which would better have been publicly debated before the legislation was brought forward. Parliament should have been allowed to make a decision before the Bill was introduced. 
I refer now to the further responsibilities of the commercial stations in regard to the Tribunal. I think we should realise that commercial stations in this area have great privilege in being able to run their services. While self-regulation has been talked about, I have to admit that I have far more confidence in the responsibility residing with Parliament than with a few entrepreneurs in the private sphere. I urge the Committee to consider seriously giving this further responsibility to the Tribunal. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  having replied I would briefly like to make a plea, in addition to that made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  with regard to this amendment. I believe the amendment is a sensible one. I will accept the assurance of the Minister that it is intended to make the reports public. But in the parliamentary sense this is not always a satisfactory procedure for reports of tribunals of this nature which are conducting inquiries and which may, as is indicated by this clause, have varying opinions. 
I suppose that we as parliamentarians are expected to keep an eye on what happens in respect of these sort of statutory bodies and that we should be able to discuss what is contained in their reports. It is rather more difficult for us to do this if a report is not published and tabled in the Parliament. I think the Minister should consider the suggestion that it is not a bad general principle that these sort of reports should actually come to the Parliament where they are tabled. The majority of reports tabled in this Parliament, of course, will go quietly by, as they always do, in our office in and out trays. But at least we will have the opportunity to note them and to bring them forward for discussion in a much easier manner. It may be that eventually the Parliament will reach the stage of maturity where reports that are required to be tabled will all be effectively examined by members of the House through a proper committee system. 
I would like to support the amendments moved by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  This clause is a terribly strange mixture. If we look at the description of the commissioners in a generic way we find a genus geographic, that is that there must be one commissioner from each State; a genus female, that is that there must be 2 women; and then a genus others, which I suppose can mean anything. It is a very strange mixture If one had to specify the strangest amendment I suppose it would be that which proposes that a commissioner should be elected from amongst the staff. There is an increasing tendency towards worker participation in organisations. The Parliament of Europe has discussed this matter and has referred it to those parliaments which are interested in it. There has een very wide ranging discussion on the subject throughout the world. Here we have that situation within the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission, despite what honourable members are reading out about opinions and so on, with what happened with Marius Webb. It is not provided for in the Act. 
I forget whether it was the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  or his predecessor as Minister for the Media who proposed that the ABC staff should have an election to nominate a Commissioner. The honourable member for Maribyrnong has given me a note which he received after making his speech in the second reading stage. The note is from the ABC Staff Association in Sydney. It points out that Marius Webb is not a Staff Association representative but represents ABC staff. He was elected from more than 30 candidates from all the ABC unions. So there were at least 30 nominations, including such prominent people as Richard Carleton, who is very well known to honourable members. That illustrates the intense interest that was taken in that election. There was a recent staff meeting of 2000 ABC employees who reconfirmed their commitment to a staff-elected commissioner. At the election 3649 staff members voted, which is more than half of the total staff. From what I have heard from honourable members opposite, they would say that this was unheard of participation for a union-type election in Australia. There is no doubt that the members of the staff feel very strongly about this commissioner. Mention was made of  Mr Duckmanton  not being able to attend. He ought to stand to see whether he can be elected by the staff. After all, there were 30 nominations last time. Why should he not be one of them? 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting in supporting the Opposition's amendments to clause 9 I commented on the strange generic origins of the Commissioners listed in this clause. I spoke to that Opposition amendment which deals with the appointment of an elected representative of the Australian Broadcasting Commission staff and pointed out that, while there had not been previous provision for this, it had been something that a previous Minister had allowed. I pointed out the response that had been received from the staff and their interest in this appointment. I do not think I need go on further with that subject. 
The other amendment deals with the inclusion in the clause of the words: 'At least 2 of the Commissioners shall be women'. I think this is a most surprising part of the clause. Why do we not state that at least two of the commissioners shall be men, or whatever? To make this particular specification would seem to be a hangover from a bygone age. The fact that in the past we have had only one woman commissioner is no argument for showing our generosity by increasing the number to two. In fact, there is no reason why all the commissioners should not be women under certain circumstances. After all, surely judgment should be made on their suitability for the position on the Commission- on their particular abilities. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  and I serve on the State Advisory Committee of the ABC in Victoria. I should think that the membership of that Advisory Committee would be about half and half, male and female. I can assure honourable members that although advisory committees are pretty toothless tigers some quite interesting discussion goes on at their meetings. In many ways the female members of the Committee are ahead of many of the men who serve on it in their attitudes to standards and types of programs and in a real understanding of how the Commission should function. So I think it is most unfortunate that these words have been included in the clause. I think that discretion should be used and women should not be mentioned specifically in this way. Why should not all the commissioners be women? If the sex of the commissioners is to be specified, we had better say as well that at least two shall be men. 
I have some doubts about the provision in this clause concerning representation from each State. I know that it is probably included because some of the smaller States might feel that they might become neglected. But I think what we should be looking for are commissioners with a real interest in and knowledge of the field, who are willing to put forward their views irrespective of the geographical area from which they come or, indeed, irrespective of their sex. In rebutting the argument for a staff representative, some mention was made of the Joint Consultative Committee. Most of these consultative committees tend to become toothless tigers. I do not accept that they are any substitute for the worker or staff participation that we would get with a commissioner elected from the staff of the ABC. I know there is a lot of public interest in this matter. I urge the Government to give serious consideration to those amendments which the Opposition has put forward. 
-by leave-I should like to support my colleague, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who also is a member of the steering committee of the seminar. I certainly endorse his remarks that these seminars do not simply happen. They involve a good deal of hard work by many people. The work is more satisfying when one sees it brought to a successful conclusion. I think that we can say that this particular seminar was a success by whatever yardstick one measures success. The yardstick I use is the level of active participation of the delegates. Every one of the 22 sessions had to be closed by the  chairman  because time had run out. 
These seminars are conducted when both Houses of Parliament are sitting. One might think that it would be difficult to conduct a seminar in Canberra during a busy sitting week. But, in fact, it was not. The reason it was not difficult was that so many members of this branch and other people associated with the Parliament gave so freely and so willingly of their time and were always ready to fill the breach when the bells were ringing. I will not embarrass our own members by mentioning names, but I should like to place on record this branch's appreciation of the help given by the staffs of all parliamentary departments; by  Mr David  Combe, the Federal Secretary of the Australian Labor Party;  Mr Tony  Eggleton, the Federal Director of the Liberal Party; and, not the least, by our volatile, provocative, amiable, erstwhile friend or enemy, as the case may be,  Mr Fred  Daly. 
I interpose here to say that for those members of this Parliament who took part, there was a spin off. Those attending the seminar obviously expected a higher degree of sophistication from this Parliament than occurred in their own. Yet many of the procedures peculiar to their Parliaments should be considered by us. Many honourable members think that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association is a necessary trapping to the institution. They should show more interest. As a Parliament, we should be conscious of the increasing pressure on Parliament and its members, due to changing technologies, powers and, indeed, the changing number and complexion of nations throughout the world. If we believe in the evolution of the Westminster system, we should be helping that system to evolve. I was deeply involved in an examination of the parliamentary committee system. As a Parliament, I believe we should review continuously our procedures and our method of conducting business and, indeed, what our business should be. It is obvious from seminars such as these that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association is a fertile source of ideas. It is perhaps a measure of how .well these seminars have caught on that in places as far away as Townsville, local members, such as  Mr Max  Hooper and  Mr Roy  Armstrong of the Queensland Parliament, and leaders of civic affairs, such as the  Chairman  of the Harbour Board, the Vice-Chancellor of the James Cook University and practically the whole of the Townsville City Council, turned out to welcome delegates and give them as much help as they could. 
Finally, I should like to say that it was a privilege for me to have something to do with this seminar as a member of the steering committee and to work with my colleagues,  Senator Davidson-  the  chairman-  and  Mr Lucock  and our Secretary, the  Clerk, Mr Parkes,  who was a prime mover in initiating these seminars. On this day when tribute already has been paid to  Mr Parkes,  I too would like to praise him for his role in and respect for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. Whilst I am not being strictly relevant to the matter before us I would like to thank him on behalf of the present  Deputy  Chairmen of Committees, and many past  deputy  chairmen of committees, for the assistance and courtesy he has shown them in his task and for the guidance he has given to many back bench members of Parliament Anything else that needs to be said is in the report. I commend the report to the House. 
-The House will come to order. 
My own personal philosophy is that I support the principle. I do not believe that the whole of the Public Service should be ravaged as happens under the American system when every time there is a change of government there is a change in every permanent head. There are many government departments where the political persuasion of the incumbent permanent head does not matter. One would not imagine that the permanent head of a Department of Works need be of a certain political persuasion or, if he is, whether that would affect the carrying out of his functions, but I certainly believe that in respect of those other departments that I did mention which have a heavy political content, the position is much more important. Maybe I am getting too mature or too browned off to bother about making political points in this place. I do not like doing it any more, but when the Leader of the Opposition mentioned what we were supposed to have done in respect of  Mr Menadue, Dr Wilenski  and  Mr Spigelman  I wonder what the Labor Party did with a very distinguished public servant,  Dr Hal  Cook. Labor was not in office for 5 minutes before he was banished. The reasons given for his banishment are well known. He is a very highly competent man. He is a distinguished man. He was given some roving committee in Europe with the grandiose title of something plenipotentiary. Obviously that was a movement for political reasons. If the Leader of the Opposition is going to oppose this Bill, as I understand he is, I can believe that he might be doing this as a matter of principle but when you stand up for a principle, your own hands, your own heart and your own conscience have to be clean on that principle before you continue espousing it. 
There is another thing which the Leader of the Opposition said which I believe ought to be contradicted by the first  speaker  from this side who replies to him. In his speech he said that the key man in the Prime Minister's new scheme is the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board. Then he said these words: 
Therefore he has got a man you can trust'. 
But he said it with the intonation, which unfortunately will not appear in  Hansard,  not with a sneer but with a leer maybe. He meant, that in future the Government will be appointing a man who it knows will bend its way politically. That is what he meant. There is no question about that. A couple of paragraphs further on in his speech he said that: "They got in quickly with  Mr Mick  Shann 's appointment'. 
Joining the two together the inference is that  Mr Fraser  thinks or the Liberals think that  Mr Shann  is a man we can trust in the sneering sense in which the Leader of the Opposition meant it. I go on record as having known Mick Shann for many years and I certainly say he is a man we can trust. It is not just the Liberals who can trust him; he is a man the Parliament can trust and he is a man Australians can trust. He is a man of great distinction and of enormous integrity. I thought that the way in which the Leader of the Opposition referred to him was an uncalled for and unwarranted slur on a man who has given his whole lifetime to the Public Service. 
In conclusion I support the Bill for 2 reasons. Mainly, I support it on principle. I am not averse to the Public Service being politicised in certain circumstances. If it is going to be politicised I believe it should be done honestly and this Bill brings out into the open that kind of an appointment which is a political appointment and it will not permanently disadvantage other career people in the Public Service who have served their lifetime in it. 
If I may have the indulgence of the House for one moment to raise a matter which may not be entirely relevant to this Bill, I am rapidly coming to a view that not only should this change in our system be made to the Public Service but I have expressed for many years the view that it is time Australians looked at the system of Westminster government and maybe it is time we looked at appointing from outside the Parliament as Ministers people with the necessary expertise. I am firmly of the view that not until that time will the executive- the individual congressman, as he is known in the United States, when formed into a committee with the proper research and backup facilities- be truly responsible and accountable to Parliament. I believe that view is consistent with the initiative that has been taken as far as the Public Service is concerned. I strongly support the Bill. 
I did not intend to enter the debate on this Bill. I make it quite clear that the Opposition has supported the measure put forward by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  This was indicated earlier in the debate by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who made a succinct and valuable contribution to the debate. However, Government speakers have raised some matters on this measure which I think require a reply. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  referred to a speaking list. I have already answered that. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  made a plea for Orions to be sent to Tasmania for surveillance purposes. He spoke for some time on this matter. Since he was permitted to raise the matter I would like to ask whether reasons can be given for that plea. After all we are looking at the question of the most efficient use for the Orions which are long-range surveillance aircraft. When one looks in other fields where the Royal Australian Air Force is called upon to supply a capability one realises that the adoption of that suggestion would not result in the aircraft being used in the most effective way. In dealing with surveillance, smuggling and so on often the response time is rather short. 
The Minister for Defence when introducing the Bill suggested that the changes are being made following a request by the Chief of Air Staff because confusion is occurring. I remind Government supporters that when they use these sorts of tactics to detract from the procedures of the House other problems arise. If I took the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  seriously he was saying that the changes are necessary to prevent confusion amongst tenderers and contractors. It is my belief that such tenderers and contractors would naturally be looking for advertisements and other means by which tenders and contracts for services required are made public. They would well know where to send for contract and tender documents and how to make a submission. I accept the suggestion as a reasonable proposition for the sake of clarity, but one wonders why it was made. It appears we have to have this clarification with the Air Office and the Defence Instructions. One might well say that we need to have the same alteration for the Chief of Air Staff so that his title can be changed to the Chief of Air Force Staff. None of us really confuses reference to ' air ' in that context with the field of civil aviation. The Minister in introducing the Bill said that it was not the sort of bill which would cause tumult throughout the country. It has caused some tumult in the House. I believe an attempt has been made to abuse the procedures of the House while restricting debates on previous Bills when members of the Opposition had something of real value to contribute. 
In this adjournment debate I draw the attention of the House to a copy of a letter which I received today from the Northern Regional Council for Social Development to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  While I would probably follow up the matter with a letter to the Minister it may raise questions in other members' electorates, and it may lead to a review. Regional councils for social development were stimulated by the Labor Government's desire to have the ordinary people in the community involved in social matters. The Northern Regional Council covers the municipalities of Northcote, Preston and Heidelberg and the shires of Diamond Valley, Eltham and Whittlesea. That region is extremely well served by 2 regional offices of the Department of Social Security- that is, at Preston and Greenborough. The office at Preston is in my electorate. The staff are most helpful. The members of this Regional Council want to draw the attention of the Minister to what they consider to be an unfortunate gap at Preston in what is otherwise an excellent service. The letter states: 
Within our community there is a very large and increasing number of unemployed people, more particularly of our concern in the Preston/Reservoir and West Heidelberg areas. As there are also 2 large public hospitals and numerous other health facilities situated in the area, the number of people claiming unemployment and sickness benefits must be very high, and it is our understanding that the current procedure involves processing of these claims at the Melbourne office of your Department. 
On behalf of actual beneficiaries, involved individuals, agencies and organisations, such as the Commonwealth Employment Service offices at Preston and Heidelberg, Preston Employment Action Group, Program for Unemployed SelfHelp (West Heidelberg), the 2 community health centres situated in the large Housing Commission estates of Preston/Reservoir and West Heidelberg, Preston and Northcote Community Hospital, Austin Hospital and North Eastern Suburbs Regional Office (Social Welfare Department), we request that you give your most urgent consideration to the relocation of an unemployment and sickness benefit component at the Preston regional office. 
In effect, the Council is asking the Minister to see that the unemployment and sickness benefit component is placed in the Preston regional office of the Department of Social Security. I know the Government is very worried about matters involving extra expenditure. I know that this would involve some additional expenditure. The whole point is this: We have this problem in the electorate. There is an excellent regional office. To add this unemployment and sickness benefit component to that office would provide a service for many people who are used to the service given by the regional office. I raise the matter on the adjournment debate, not because it is a parochial issue. Of course I am interested in a parochial issue. I have represented these people for a good many years. I want to see them well looked after. It occurs to me that with the development of regional offices there may be a number of other areas that are suffering from this same problem and that there are large numbers whose claims have to go to the central office for processing when they could be processed just as easily at these regional offices. That is an appeal by the Northern Regional Council for Social Development to the Minister. I suppose it is not a bad general principle at which the Government should be looking- the identification of these areas and the provision of this sort of service to people who appreciate their regional offices and who would benefit by the provision of this service. 
-On 23 December the Town Clerk of the City of Preston wrote to me expressing his Council's concern at the high level of unemployment, particularly among teenagers, in the Preston municipality. He informed me that the council was concerned with the social implications of the massive level of unemployment. He said: 
Unemployment appears likely to increase in the near future and the Commonwealth Government will incur a heavier liability for payments by its Department of Social Security. This expenditure is totally unproductive and perpetuates a system where the people concerned- particularly the young- face a life of frustration, boredom and poverty. 
He then went on to point out that councils had the organisational capacity to absorb significant numbers of unemployed if the necessary finance was made available. He pointed out the very worthwhile work on which they could be used. He pointed out also that people employed on works would receive on the job training and acquire skills in various fields which would be of advantage to them in the future in obtaining employment in the private sphere. The City of Preston Council decided to mount a campaign for the reintroduction of federal funding for local local government projects similar to the Regional Employment Development scheme and circularised all municipalities in Victoria seeking their support and assistance. 
I replied to the Council that the Australian Labor Party was seeking a reintroduction of the scheme. As is my usual courteous custom I sent copies of this correspondence to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I pointed out that this Council is a conservative council which consists of 8 conservatives and 4 Labor members. I supported the representations it made as they were in line with what we were doing. 
I received from a councillor the response of the municipalities in Victoria. Of the 82 municipalities 62 supported what was put forward, 7 said no and 13 did not commit themselves. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the municipalities and their response. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a report into today's Melbourne  Age  that a law professor at the University of Tasmania has claimed that a former hired killer was actively recruiting in southern Tasmania for the Rhodesian army and that the man claimed that the Australian Government knew of his work? If so, have the allegations been investigated? What substance is there in them? If the gentleman is engaged in these nefarious activities, is he an Australian citizen or an overseas visitor? 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Last year, the Minister said in this House that his Government would take decisions on the further development of the Australian uranium industry in the light of public discussion and of debate in the national Parliament. In view of this statement, what action is his Department, or any Government department, taking to further public debate and discussion on the uranium industry? 
-In addressing my remarks to the matter before us I comment first of all that, as the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said, the Opposition is not opposing these sessional orders. Secondly, I would like to say that as a member of the Standing Orders Committee I have been a party to discussions of the sessional orders. No objection is raised because it is hoped that further matters will flow from these proposals. But there are 3 areas to which I wish to address some criticism. These are the questions of sitting times, the lack of a quorum and matters arising out of the changed adjournment debate. 
With regard to the times of sitting, I suppose honourable members would be aware that early in the history of the Commonwealth Parliament, because of transport difficulties and so on, members tended to be here for longer periods of time continuously and so there was more continuity in debate. That has lapsed with faster means of transport. There has been an increase in the load of legislation that comes before the Parliament. There has been an increase in concern among private members in the Parliament about the increased power of the Executive. I am not speaking just now on a partisan basis. I am not just referring to the present Government. There has been an increasing tendency in recent years for the power of the Executive to increase without the corresponding examination by the Parliament. 
A third factor is the concern over the attitude taken to the private member. Instead of private members being active in the Parliament to examine legislation, to discuss reports, to discuss ministerial statements and so on, there is a tendency for them to want to be back in the electorate serving the social worker or welfare worker functions there. This allows quite a deal of the increase of Executive power and lack of consideration of legislation. We do not sit many days in this Parliament. We do not sit long hours in this Parliament, compared with comparable parliamentary institutions in other countries. To allow those who feel they must be back in the electorate- I know there are a lot of members on the other side who worry about their electorates in the present circumstances- the partial answer could be in the staffing supplied to members of the Parliament. Honourable members who have experienced the extra efficiency they are able to have in their offices by the provision of the electorate assistants we now have introduced by our good friend Fred Daly, who understood private members' problems, will appreciate that that is a partial answer. 
If the sittings of the House are to be as proposed, perhaps there will be the waste of a morning. We are to sit at 10.30 a.m. on Thursday, but on Tuesday and Wednesday we are not to start until 2.15 p.m. under the proposed sessional order. It would seem to me that if we are to have more opportunity for parliamentary work we should be setting aside one morning for party meetings- we should have them on Tuesday morning- and sitting at an earlier hour on Wednesday. 
The question of the quorum relates in part to just what I am talking about. As the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  suggested, the Government carries the prime responsibility for maintaining a quorum. A quorum cannot be maintained if honourable members feel they must be back in their electorates or if we are to have the party committee and parliamentary committee activity that goes on at the moment. When quorums are called, most of the complaints of honourable members dragged to the chamber are to the effect that they have been pulled out of some party committee or parliamentary committee. 
This leads me to the next point. The honourable member for Corio made a plea about the report of Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. I think the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  knows that I have an interest in this because I was  Chairman  of that Committee for so long and through the permission of the members of the Committee actually guided and substantially formed the report that was put forward with a high degree of acceptance by members of the Committee, whether it was in the last Parliament when there was a majority of Labor members or in this Parliament when there has been a majority of LiberalCountry Party members. Although an assurance has been given that some action will come out of that report, my concern is that what will come forward is a recommendation once more from the Executive about what should happen in the Parliament. It seems to me that, honourable members on both sides having examined this matter, before recommendations come before the Parliament go to the Government party and go before the House there should be a debate in the House so that a matter that affects all members of the House can be clear to the Government before it puts its propositions forward. I think it will stifle proper debate if the Government makes its recommendations before this House and the members in it have a chance to discuss what goes on because this could very much affect the hours of sitting. 
The question of legislative committees replacing the Committee of the Whole is important. It could very well allow better examination of legislation, but to do this one will have to revert to what I mentioned before concerning the actual days of sitting and the hours of sitting. We may have to sacrifice the desire to be in the electorate for the sake of saying: 'We are examining legislation properly. We are examining the actions of the Executive properly. We are responsibly carrying out our roles as members of Parliament' So there are many matters that flow from this question. If the Committee report is to come before the House, I ask that there be a general debate on it before recommendations arising from it are brought forward by the Government. 
Finally I refer to the question of the adjournment debate. I think there is a desirable feature in the proposed sessional order relating to the adjournment debate in that provision is made for a Minister to answer matters raised during that debate. I think this is a proper thing to occur. I refer to the custom that was followed until this Parliament. If an honourable member raised during the adjournment debate, the grievance debate or general debates on legislation and reports a matter which required answer by a Minister he received an answer within a week or two- a courteous note from the Minister saying that in the debate on such and such a day the honourable member referred to such and such a question and the details are as the Minister set them out. I know that on several occasions in the life of this Parliament I have raised matters affecting my constituents in relation to which I have felt there has not been satisfactory action or answer. Not once have I received the courtesy of a reply from the Minister concerned. Whereas when I refered to my concern about the power of the Executive and so on I was not speaking on a partisan basis because I think the situation applied to both sides of the fence, on this occasion I state that there has been a marked decrease in this Parliament in the courtesy of Ministers of this Government in answering questions raised in this manner. I hope they wil take some notice of what I say and return to the previous procedure that former governments of its type followed and that the Labor Government followed. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
-In the last couple of weeks some of my colleagues have raised questions concerning the 1976 census. They have raised matters of employment and unemployment figures. I wish to refer to this same census with regard to other figures which are of some significance. My attention has been directed to the preliminary figures of population and dwellings in local government areas in Victoria. I rise to express concern because these census figures show in the City of Preston, which forms quite a large part of my electorate, a population of 88 380 people. The estimate of the city valuer and the rate collector of the council of the City of Preston, based on rate and other records, is that the population of the city is 101000. There is quite a considerable difference between the 2 figures. Further, the census figures for occupied dwellings show 25 800 dwellings, whereas the records of the Preston City Council show 26 386 dwellings. Once again there is quite a significant difference between the municipal records and the figures taken at the census. 
The census figures state that there are 1 1 89 unoccupied dwellings. This is a quite ridiculous figure. There is a housing shortage in the area. Estate agents have nothing or next to nothing on their books and when they do have something, it goes pretty quickly. One could explain some unoccupied dwellings by people being on holidays but I scarcely think it would be to the extent of 1 1 89 dwellings, particularly in an area where this Government's economic measures and the unemployment that it has caused are having such a dire effect. It has been put to me that I should raise this question in the House as subsidies from both Commonwealth and State sources are based on a per capita grant. Municipalities receive very substantial amounts of money for those areas based on a per capita grant. The Commonwealth grant to local government has a per capita component which is clearly spelt out. The State government grants in many areas, such as libraries for municipalities, are based on a per capita grant. The question has been asked of me whether the figures are being deliberately falsified to keep these Government contributions at a low rate. I think that in view of the divergence that can be shown in the figures, it is a not unreasonable question to ask. I had my electorate assistant examine the pattern in other municipalities. He has made inquiries and received statements from other municipalities to the effect that this pattern is quite clear throughout a number of municipalities in the Melbourne and metropolitan area. I think this sort of divergence in numbers and the obvious anomalies in the census require an answer by the Government, particularly when they affect the finance obtained by local government bodies. 
-I call on the honourable member for Shortland to withdraw the remark, as the honourable member for Wilmot finds it offensive. 
What did the honourable member for Denison say? As evidence of this unity among Tasmanian Liberals, I remind the House of what the honourable member for Denison said. He made it clear that he believed that the honourable member for Franklin was acting unwisely. That was his comment.  His  advice was for the honourablemember for Franklin to change his tune, which he subsequently did. Then the Tasmanian Liberal senator,  Senator Walters,  said: 
We were subsidising passengers on the  Australian Trader  to the tune of $100 each- and that was insupportable. 
Paragraph (hi) states: that this House deplores the hypocritical attempts by the Opposition to make cheap political capital out of the problems facing those engaged in the apple and pear export industry . . . 
He said that he and his colleagues were united in this view. I can only accept that statement and put to the apple and pear growers of Australia that this motion is supported by all members on the Government side, because that is what the honourable member for Franklin said. He said they were united. If he thinks that an attempt to provide assistance to apple and pear growers at a time when they are most desperately in need is cheap and some sort of political stunt, let him and his colleagues, when they make their contribution later, have the courage to say that. He did not tell the growers- I want to tell them- that before he gave his notice of motion he knew very well that it could not be discussed. It will be listed on the notice paper in a position in which, unless there is some major decision of the Government, it will never come up for debate. That exposes the sham and the humbug of the Tasmanian Liberals who want to indicate some sort of support. That exposes their sham. We sought to assist the apple and pear growers of Tasmania with their freight problems by transferring responsibility for the Tasmanian railways from the Tasmanian Government to the national Government. As soon as there was a change of government, the Tasmanian Liberals supported a snide attempt to get out of that agreement. They did not want apples and pears carried on trains if they could get out of it. When they failed there was a lapse of time, then the Joy committee was set up to find another way out of it. The Tasmanian Liberals are united in their disunity, united in a sham stunt, acting as apologists. 
Freight costs are an important element in the cost structure of the apple and pear industry. When the Tasmanian State Liberal Leader set out his policy some months ago he said that to help reduce those costs he wanted to see the nationalisation of the stevedoring industry. He held the view that that was one of the best solutions to try to keep down cost levels in Tasmania. But at the Federal level, again showing that wonderful unity from Tasmanian Liberals, that proposal is opposed in this place. Tasmanian Liberals sit in this chamber and support a policy which will mean the complete handing over of the industry to private enterprise. They have completely rebutted the wishes of the Tasmanian State Liberal leader. I do not know how they define that action as unity, but it is put forward as that. 
In summary, these Bills evidence strongly the brutality of the Government's attitude towards people in financial difficulty. Because of the disastrous economic policies which have produced record unemployment, record inflation and a record deficit the sons and daughters of apple and pear growers are unemployed. They would like to undertake careers and have jobs. They need the level of unemployment benefit and sickness benefit that honourable members opposite, including the Tasmanian Liberals, are trying to reduce. They also are feeling the impact of the new Medibank tax. 
The amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition seeks to alleviate the difficulties that such people now face. It seeks in a responsible and moderate way to give recognition to their problems and to provide in a speedy manner some relief, even though inadequate relief, to the people in the industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr GILES (Angas  )-Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-After listening to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  I am pleased to support the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and the comments that he made earlier in the debate. The honourable member for Lilley was surprised, as he put it, at the pessimism of the honourable member for Melbourne but who could be other than pessimistic about the actions taken by this Government? The honourable member for Melbourne was kind enough to welcome the public discussion on this matter but I would point out in regard to this area over the last couple of years we have had the first report of the National Population Inquiry and the ministerial statement on population policy of 30 March 1976. We now have the Green Paper. How long is discussion to continue before the Government gets around to making decisions? The honourable member for 
Lilley, in criticising the honourable member for Melbourne, talked about the dynamics of population in other countries which are not comparable to Australia in the light of our economic and industrial set up. He expressed surprise that a Green Paper entitled 'Immigration Policies and Australia's Population' should spend so much time dealing with the subject of immigration. I refer to page 3 of the Green Paper which notes:  . . . in the Australian context, immigration remains the major instrument by which government can directly and significantly influence population growth. 
This is the sort of thing which, unfortunately, I fear this Government will use for the purposes of economic manipulation. The honourable member for Lilley went on to talk about the other ways in which population can be adjusted, quite overlooking the comments in the Green Paper- I take it he contests them although he did not mention them- which state: 
There is little evidence that the size of families can readily be manipulated by the Government of a democracy to achieve specific population goals. Some countries have used economic incentives ... to discourage large families. However, because of the complexity of factors  involved  in people 's decisions about family size, the extent to which such government measures have affected, or could affect, the birth rate is difficult to determine with any confidence. In any event, incentives to have larger families could be very costly, even to the point of drawing resources away from other welfare programs. 
I take it that the honourable member for Lilley was suggesting that population could be increased from the migrant content of the community when, in fact, I believe the migrant content of the community conforms in the main to the normal social attitudes that we take in Australia in regard to family size. What other measures does he suggest for this stimulation of population growth through fertility and family size? Does he want to make an attack on the question of mortality? It is ridiculous and unthinkable to suggest that the mortality rate could be manipulated. I rose to speak in this debate because I have a large variety of ethnic groups in my electorate, as does the honourable member for Melbourne. In fact, the Asian editor of  Readers' Digest  visited Australia last year and I had the opportunity to take him into my electorate to show him the large mosque, then under construction, which has now been opened and which indicates the large Muslim content of the area. I took him to the local market on a Saturday morning. It is a veritable Tower of Babel and indicates the wide variety of ethnic groups in the electorate. 
It is because of the problems that I face as a member of Parliament representing such a community that I am interested in what the future migration program in Australia will be. I must admit that in discussing this matter, I am referring principally to those migrants of nonAngloSaxon origin. I accept that those of Anglo-Saxon origin have some problems but they have a facility for communication which is denied to others. The Green Paper very fairly represents certain national objectives that Australia as a nation takes and comments that there is a diversity of views on these objectives and the best methods of achieving them. That, of course, makes one wonder about their validity in considering them  vis a vis  immigration policy. Australia's post Second World War immigration policy under Caldwell was based partly on humanitarian grounds and partly on the growth of Australian population that was needed at the time. Unfortunately, under the previous conservative Administration, the traditional migration program was basically one of providing factory fodder. There was very little in the way of social planning programs to accompany that immigration intake. Little thought was given to housing or the education problems that exist, apart from even the normal provision of education facilities. The list is a long one. Any projected program in the future must take note to accommodate these social consequences. 
The question is raised of the balance of the aged in the community. There are ways other than bringing out youth to combat the aging of the community. Does the value of a human being end at 65 years of age? He can and should contribute. This is where I think we are probably too rigid in our family reunion program. We should consider the value of the human being over 65 years of age and his place in the community. Obviously, with a properly designed program, the aging factor can be plateaued at a manageable level. We face a situation in which, in future, technology will alter work loads by lowering working hours and so allow us to take that sort of consideration into the balance of our population. At present we must face up to the problem that Melbourne and Sydney at least are rapidly reaching the stage where they will not work as cities. This is relevant to the matter before us. The mechanical demand of the services needed to keep a city functioning will not be met. This is part of the sociological effects of ever expanding cities. It is part of some of those measures which must be considered in looking at an immigration policy and a population policy. 
The question has been posed whether we should be encouraging people to come to a consumer culture, such as we have in Australia, thus placing a greater load on world and local resources and on the environment. I think that the question without notice asked today on this matter by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  should not be left without an answer. There are many other things that flow from it other than those beneficial things to which he referred in his question. Having said that, I return to the point I made earlier that any projected program in the future must accommodate the social consequences. It is these social consequences with which most of us, as members of Parliament, if we have an area of high ethnic content, have to cope. There is a tendency to try to solve these social consequences by manipulation of the composition of the intake. I do not think that is necessarily the right answer. If one tries to solve these consequences purely by manipulating the composition of the intake one does not take account of the latent capabilities or the latent abilities of many of those who come to Australia and their talents are underwritten. 
On the matter of social consequences, I would refer the honourable members to a series of articles published in that well known radical journal, the  Medical Journal of Australia,  between 26 June 1976 and 18 September 1976. 1 think that these articles provide a lot of stimulation to thought in that area. I should mention some of the points that were raised in them. In the first article of the series it was mentioned that the migrants from continental Europe making up a significant proportion of our numbers are significantly and favourably influencing our cultural development but at the same time thenpresence creates social problems in the community. The article refers to the need for a spirit of partnership in the community between the new arrivals and those of us already here- the older Australians who have had the responsibility of making such an environment as we have- to be as helpful as we can to the new migrants. I ask honourable members to cast their minds to the citizenship ceremonies which they attend from time to time and at which masses of migrants become new citizens. At those ceremonies can be found a handful of Australians, usually parliamentary representatives at various levels of government, and very little else. I think we have failed in not making the effort then of trying to integrate and welcome those migrants into our community. 
The non-Anglo-Saxon migrant has 2 basic difficulties. Firstly, he has the language difficulty and, secondly, the cultural difficulty. Out of that he can get what medicos are inclined to describe as 'cultural shock'. It is a good term because many of us of Anglo-Saxon origin do not realise that many of these groups of migrants, such as the Greek migrants, really come from a large number of different groups held together fairly loosely. They have different dialects and different customs. The Yugoslavs are divided into the Servo-Croatians, the Macedonians, the Bosnians, and so on. That creates many problems in their assimilation into the community. Until we have that sort of understanding where we look at the social consequences and provide for them, it will lead to further social problems in the community. 
We find that these groups do endeavour to preserve their language and their culture and it is in our interests that they preserve their language and their culture. In the electorate of the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  there is a group which, without assistance from any government source, every Saturday morning has about 250 children attending classes in the Yugoslav language- in basic SerboCroatianand cultural acitivities. We do not help in that endeavour. There is a primary school in my electorate at which 70 per cent of the children are of Greek, Yugoslav or Italian origin. The only government assistance that that school has received to help the people concerned to run their classes and to help retain some of the old culture which will enrich our lives is $500 provided by the Victorian Government 2 years ago. 
The migrant officer is probably the person who was the Liberal candidate for Reservoir and who, in the area with the highest migrant population, managed to get 30 per cent of the vote. I am sorry; I am now informed that he is the private assistant to the Victorian Minister for Immigration. 
One must remember that because of the past policy of bringing in these people as factory fodder it becomes vital that both husband and wife are working. The survey that  Dr Moraitis  conducted in his practice in Victoria showed that more than 70 per cent of Greek mothers worked, compared with 36 per cent of Australian mothers. Some of the articles to which I have referred show the disability suffered by these women who are forced to work in industry. That is brought about by a lack of understanding of the social consequences that flow from their introduction into our community. 
-The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife)  is a person for whom I have quite a deal of respect as I had for his predecessor who, I am sure, will serve Australia with distinction in another sphere. The honourable member, however, did himself rather less than justice when he was incredulous at the statements made by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  on the economy, inflation and unemployment. I am sure that he must be starting to weaken in his resolve when he asks himself the question how long he and his colleagues can get away with blaming everything that happened between 1972 and 1975 on the Labor Government. That was a time when the Labor Government had to try to carry out massive legal and social reforms which resulted from 23 years of conservative neglect. It had to try to carry out those programs with the obstruction of not having a majority in another place. Yet there is a group of members on the Government side who came into this place with the story that they were better economic managers. They have an untrammelled majority in both Houses and preside over the greatest unemployment that Australia has seen since the Depression years and over a completely pessimistic business sector. How long can Government supporters continue with these excuses? How long do they think they can fool the public? 
I suppose that after 25 years of the reign of  Her  Majesty it was an historic occasion when she presented this Speech to the thirtieth Parliament. One would have hoped that the speech supplied by her Government would have contained more substance and more optimism for the Australian people. That would have been fitting for the occasion. I have read the Speech of  Her  Majesty in order to speak in this Address-in-Reply debate to try to find some glimmer of hope. I find emphasis in this very generalised speech on individual rights, on equality of opportunity and on equality and opportunity. Mention is also made of creativity. All these are laudable objectives in a contemporary democracy but I doubt whether this Government understands the terms it uses in that respect. 
I turn to an area of international concern with respect to the legal laxity in Australia's securities markets. This is something that is written about in those magazines that deal with the subject and the plea is made that even weak laws would help in this respect. The securities industry is scarcely an area of productivity. It is scarcely an area of equality of opportunity or even creativity. Certainly, in a perverse way, it deals with the rights of individuals. It deals with their rights to act as brigands in commercial piracy, preying on the weak, the small investor who is perhaps bemused by avarice and so easy prey for the smart boys. What is the history of this situation? Just recently the international magazine  Newsweek  of 14 March had quite a deal to say on this matter. The first sentence of the article stated: 
Stock-market reform has been a hot topic in Australia ever since a spectacular boom in mining shares collapsed in a series or equally spectacular scandals six years ago. 
I ask honourablemembers to note that this happened 6 years ago during the term of office of the supposedly superior economic managers. The recent report prepared for the Attorney-General of the State of New South Wales has highlighted some of these areas. In particular, it referred to the failure of 2 companies that were closely connected with the mining boom. One was Mineral Securities which handled $330m worth of mining shares during the boom and the other was Patrick Partners, a Sydney brokerage house that collapsed 18 months ago. If one looks at further references one sees that there is an allegation in the report that Minsec directors made a sham transfer of stock from one subsidiary to another to turn a $3.3m loss into a $3.5m paper profit. With regard to Patrick Partners the Commission charged that the firm's brokers had violated stock exchange rules on liquid assets for nearly a year before the company's collapse. Does that mention of Patrick Partners create a twinge of conscience amongst members of the Government Parties or even in one member of the Government parties? If so, can we expect a byelection? 
Further in the report, with regard to mining, it is stated that alleged financial journalists were paid to promote stocks in the Press and that pools of unscrupulous investors would sell each other large blocks of stock at inflated prices and then dump their holdings on an unsuspecting public. So much for the freedom of the Press if financial journalists could be so led away from their duty. Were these the same financial journalists who sold Australians the idea that this conservative group who now govern the country were superior economic managers? No wonder that inflation is unremitting and that unemployment is rampant. 
The Government stated in the Queen's Speech that the prosperity of the Australian people depends inter alia on Australia's mining industries. What happened in the securities area? Of the millions of dollars that pour into mining shares, according to one study, only 27 per cent was actually used for exploration, equipment and development. Yet, still there is no control in this area. Freedom of individuals! Yes. Virtually free! I say that because the problem in this nation's investment industry is that a group of brockers, company directors, accountants and financial experts has been allowed to run astray on stock exchanges virtually free from outside interference and nothing is done. Without action being taken, an old boy network has been running this investment industry, unchecked. We hear plenty of union bashing going on but we hear darned little about action being taken to control these commercial predators. Is it because this old boy network are those who finance the conservative parties' election funds? 
I turn to examine the Government parties and why .they take the attitude to unemployment and inflation that they do. One might fairly say that some Government supporters are silver spooners and those are the conservatives I can best appreciate because they do not understand what happens at grass roots level. They may have worked hard, but it has never been a case of work where one does the job to get the money to get the food to get the energy to do the job and so on  ad infinitum;  it has been hard work where they have always had security and could knock off when they wished. But there is another element in the Government parties which indeed has some knowledge of grass root conditionsthe conditions of the ordinary people. The members of this element are the worst because in many cases they have succeeded in business and professions and believe that they have put themselves amongst the ordinary men who work with their hands and produce the goods that are used in the community. 
I think it was J. B. Priestley who wrote of the dangerous corner- that incident in a man's life which can mean the difference between success and failure- matters often beyond his control. These men ought to reflect on what they know of those base conditions and why they should be concerned that we have inflation virutally unchanged and unemployment soaring. Some day they will have to run on their own record and when that happens the economy will be the issue. They will have to have an answer for that. I warn with regret that what they are facing in that respect is a harvest of hate because they have revived the old class divisions in the community which we hoped had been softened to give us a more egalitarian society. 
There must be understanding of what inflation and unemployment does. This week a report was produced from the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty that dealt with lifelong education and poor people. There are some studies in that which indicate what can happen under fairly ordinary conditions. But one must appreciate the fear, the hopelessness, the despair and the loss of self-respect that occurs amongst people subjected to massive unemployment- the people who normally produce the goods that are used. There is the fear amongst the men over SO years that not even the skills they have acquired or the work they can do will preserve their jobs. There is the hopelessness and despair of those school leavers who cannot find jobs to go to and who see life as a purposeless thing. This is not helped by this talk of the dole bludger syndrome, a thing that has been poured on since 1975 and which no Government Minister or Government supporter yet has proved to be a substantial component of unemployment. I have had individuals complain to me that they talked to their colleagues in their clubs and everyone is aware of dole bludgers who are cheating the system. But none of them gives specific instances. It is always what Joe told them or what Bill told them. This sham will lead to a harvest of hate in the near future. 
The other interesting thing is to look at the business supporters of this Government. I was interested to read  Rydge's  of December 1976. In fact I read it, I think, just after devaluation occurred. I would believe that  Rydge's  represents a group that would support this Government. The article I read was: 'Why devaluation would fail'. It states: 
Despite the devaluation rumours, our credit rating in overseas capital markets is high so there is no lack of ability to borrow. 
The article goes on to explain the traditional methods of borrowing that the Government had used. The article was prepared before the devaluation. It stated further 
Devaluation, of course, would also increase the cost of overseas borrowing, . . . The economic impact of devaluation could be widely unfavourable. 
The next month that journal published an article entitled: 'Another push for inflation'. As I said, the publishers of this magazine are people who would support the conservatives in their actions. They state that the mining industry has been very persuasive in this area. This is an industry in which we are told that investment is important and in which, as I said before, because of the manipulation of investments and so on, 27 per cent of the money finally got into exploration, exploitation and development. Devaluation in itself had marked inflationary ramifications. These were the greatest disadvantages of it. These are some of the things the country is suffering from now. 
I turn to another matter. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has always presented himself as a keen parliamentarian and a very vocal advocate of the parliamentary system. In fact I seem to recall that when I was sitting on the Government side of the House one of the arguments he put forward for using the non-Labor members in the Senate to block supply was that the Australian Labor Party tried to usurp the role of Parliament by actions outside it. As I understood it, at that time he undertook to restore the dignity of the institution. But what has happened? Is Parliament a serious debating forum where Cabinet may rule but with some sort of regard for the elected representatives on both sides? If Parliament is to carry out this role, Parliament must be able to exercise scrutiny over executive action. Yet this Prime Minister has deliberately pursued policies aimed at minimising parliamentary oversight. In a report in the  Australian Financial Review  it is suggested that Cabinet decided last October that Parliamentary 
Counsel should give particular attention to leaving as much as possible to regulations rather than to substantive legislation. The legislative program on today's notice paper is distinguished by the absence of substantive legislation. It was revealed in early January this year that last year under this conservative government, no fewer than 300 regulations and ordinances had been gazetted- probably more than in any year since the war. This abuse of executive power is very hard to stop. One could go on with this ignoring of the parliamentary process. One sees the Prime Minister afraid to face the Opposition on urgency motions- a deliberate technique whereby the Prime Minister avoids examination. In concluding my remarks on the Address-in-Reply, I regret that there is not more hope in the Queen 's Speech. I regret the attitude taken by the Government and I warn Government supporters to think seriously about what they are doing because of the harvest they will reap. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I point out to the honourable member that it is not for the occupant of the chair to agree. It is for the House to agree. Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted, subject to the usual proviso that the Government Printer is able to reproduce its contents. 
We Aboriginal people want appoint one land commission - 
That is not a land council-  and to have Aboriginal man full blood man. 
That means they want their own full bloods as against part coloureds and people who work their way in as advisers, legal aid experts and so on. The coloured people whose names appear in the list- many of them are personally known to me- came to my office to give me the list. It was written in pencil on some ordinary writing paper. 
As regards this matter of the Government, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  not taking the slightest notice of the people who are concerned, I wish to read from a series of transcripts statements which the Aboriginal people made of their own volition when they had the legislation translated into their language and put to them. The replies were taped and translated back into English. I shall read a very short passage. I seek leave to have the document tabled. The statement from which I read concerns Luther Upbutja who comes from Papunyah which is situated to the west of Alice Springs. Luther spoke about how the land council interference is unacceptable. He said: 
Nobody can come in here. We are the owners of the land. No one else can come. No land council can come in to take our place. Only the owners of the land should stand up. Other people, land council people, they don't understand this law about the land, they are just boys, they don't know  about this and that's why they break this law. He is not the owner of this land. 
It was also stated: 
These people don't know the law and they don't know how to sing the songs. They are ignorant of these things. 
There are 18 of these transcripts. They were produced when the legislation was being drafted. As far as I can see from the legislation, not the slightest notice was taken of the wishes of these men, many of whom are traditional leaders or of the eighty-one men who signed the list which I received only a week or so ago. 
I ask honourable members to listen to what Professor Strehlow said in a letter to the  Centralian Advocate  of 6 January 1977. He is one of the few men alive who really knows the story of land ownership in the central Australian area. He said: 
On my 1975 visit to Alice Springs I listened to the fears of many tribal elders, and carefully looked through the Alice Springs land rights applications sent for my opinion by  Mr Eames. 
I think that  Mr Eames  is the legal adviser to the Central Land Council. Professor Strehlow continued: 
These revealed no 'compassion', but only crass whites greed and ignorance. 
He went on to say that it was clear that he must take most of his knowledge with him when he died because he had promised the Aboriginal traditional owners that he would not divulge their secrets. He continued: 
The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies has long since become the million-dollar dump for anthropological and linguistic trivia and rubbish gathered by modern lightweights. 
These are the people who advised the previous government and this Government on the Aboriginal land rights legislation. I believe that  Dr Nick  Peterson is one of them. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott),  when referring to the Law Reform Commission, said that Professor Strehlow was one authority whom the Commission would seem to be unwise to disregard in its research. He is a man of tremendous knowledge and experience, but he and various other people in the central Australian area were ignored completely when the legislation was being put together. Professor Strehlow concluded his letter to the  Centralian Advocate  of 6 January 1977 by saying: 
The passing of the N.T. Land Rights Bill in its present form shows how the Territory-born residents, both whites and tribal blacks, are still being treated as fifth-rate colonials by many of the sporting political nobles of all parties in that Australian Versailles which is so insensitive to the hopes and fears of most ordinary Australians- Canberra. 
That is a pretty fair rundown of what has really transpired with the construction of the Aboriginal land legislation. 
There has been a complete lack of understanding of the Territory situation and of the Aborigines themselves, their claims and their background. The complementary legislation which was provided for in the Federal Act has been put down in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. It has been very strongly criticised. A lot of the criticism has been organised, especially that regarding the 2 kilometres of coastline which it has been claimed should be included in Aboriginal land. If this claim were acceded to 85 per cent of the Northern Territory coastline would become virtually Aboriginal land. What would honourable members and the governments of their states think if 85 per cent of the coastline of their State were virtually locked up and one had to get permission to fish in or to use the area. I know that there are sacred sitesrocks, islets and so on- on the north coast. The people I have spoken to tell me that when the Macassars came to the coast there was no locked up area. The Japanese luggers required no licence to fish. No permission had to be granted to them. Now there is a claim from the Northern Land Council. My advice is that in years gone by the Aborigines have not had a real affinity with the sea. Now people are saying that the dreaming comes with the sunrise across the sea. I have heard people who have lived on the north coast for 40 or 50 years say that that is nonsense. Yet people today are saying that it is so. I am sure no one would deny the Aborigines rights to fish off Maningrida, Croker Island, Goulburn Island or Elcho Island. 
This is the sort of attitude which is being taken towards the people in the Northern Territory by those who put together the Aboriginal land rights legislation and who have pushed it on to the people in the Northern Territory without really consulting them. They have taken the advice of the advisers, not the advice of the Aboriginal people themselves. Under the Department of Aboriginal Affairs Maningrida, which is on the northern coast halfway between Darwin and Gove- there must be many other places with a similar situation- is falling apart. There are 600 people in the settlement and 750 in the bush. The social security cheques of those in the bush are being cashed and they are living on a diet of some food but mostly grog. Only recently 40 cartons of grog came off the boat and went straight bush. They did not go into a store. I am blaming the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the way it has ridden rough-shod over the Northern Territory. 
There should be an investigation and there should be a change. I would also say that the Minister is responsible as well because he is the one who has spearheaded this. He is the one to whom we have appealed and who introduced this legislation. He should be listening to what the Legislative Assembly has to say in its complementary legislation and not accepting willy nilly the hundreds of telegrams giving him the advice of advisers and not the real, true traditional land owners. The whole thing is a scandal and should be investigated. 
-Does the Minister for Transport recall, when replying to a question of mine on 2 December last year, giving an assurance that the position of members of the staff of the Bureau of Roads would be protected during the proposed amalgamation? Is he aware that the morale of the staff is still adversely affected and that a questionnaire regarding arrangements sent by 22 members of the Bureau of Roads staff to the Permanent Head of the Department of Transport remains unacknowledged and unanswered since November 1976? As this is vital to the careers and future plans of the staff, will the Minister undertake to have that questionnaire answered now? If he would like a copy of the questionnaire I can supply it, or perhaps he would prefer that I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
-I welcome the fact that the Government has brought forward this Bill because it does allow a discussion on a matter which I think a number of us have felt strongly about for some time and it is a matter that the Parliament should discuss. I enter the debate briefly because I feel that in some way it is very much a conscience matter to which I must address myself. Mention has been made by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  of the definition of mercenary. I realise the difficulty there. I do not think there is any doubt that there is a complete repugnance on behalf of most Australian people to the mercenary who simply sells his services to whoever pays the highest price or where the opportunity occurs. 
They are paid killers. I think the repugnance is pretty widespread. The problem also is that once one deals with those hired killers, one finds problems of recruitment and of illicit arms being horded and used. Much has been said to the effect that there should be a letout for certain individuals because of the rights of individuals but those individuals, in accepting Australian nationality, also accept responsibilities to the nation. I am presenting a view which is personal and which is probably more extreme than most honourable members would offer. Certainly this is something that I have not discussed with my colleagues on this side of the House. I support the amendment because I feel that persons should not be involved in armies outside their own country. In arriving at this conclusion I thought of the International Brigade, in the Spanish civil war which has been mentioned in the debate, when many men felt as a matter of conviction that they must go and fight in Spain. 
I can think of the attraction of other apparently just causes throughout the world where men have volunteered to fight, not just as hired killers but because of their devotion to that cause. But if we try to make allowances for them, we leave too many loopholes. This is the reason for the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)-  to close off very tightly this aspect of recruitment and service. I feel that despite the arguments that can be put to allow loopholes for just causes and the question of the right of the individual, the national responsibility is too great to have this type of legislation which allows these loopholes. If men wish to serve in causes, I suggest that we have our own army which could be used to fight these sorts of causes although they may not always be just causes. Also, if we wish the United Nations peacekeeping forces to be successful, we should be pressing for those forces to be used in those troubled areas of the world. 
Attention has been paid by previous speakers to clauses 6, 7, 8 and 9 which deal with the question of serving in forces other than government forces and the recruitment to those forces. I asked a question on 23 February about recruitment in Australia for the Rhodesian army. This question arose out of a newspaper report. Unfortunately I do not have the extensive private espionage network available to the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  but the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  expanded on the answer which he gave to my question without notice. I seek leave to have his written answer to me incorporated in  Hansard.  The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  has indicated that he is agreeable to that. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That: 
The House notes- 
That the firm of Patrick Partners carried on the business of stock and share brokers under that name principally in Sydney and Melbourne; 
That the said firm had 12 partners of whom Michael Ehrenfried Baume, now the honourable member for Macarthur, was one; 
That on 27 July 1975, 1 1 members of the firm other than the honourable member for Macarthur signed an authority under sub-section 188 (1) of the Bankruptcy Act of 1966 as amended, authorising  Mr J.  H. Jamison, a registered trustee, to call a meeting of his creditors and to take over control of his property and the authority became effective for the purposes of Part X of the Act on that day; 
That on 27 July 1975 the Honourable Member also signed an authority under sub-section 188 (1) of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 as amended authorising  Mr J.  H. Jamison, a registered trustee, to call a meeting of his creditors and to take over control of his property, and the authority became effective for the purposes of Part X of the Act on that day; 
That on 27 February 1976 deeds of arrangement with each of the eleven partners other than the Honourable Member were approved by special resolutions passed under paragraph 204 (1) (b) of the Bankruptcy Act at creditors' meetings held on that date; 
That the deeds of arrangement were executed on 19 March 1976 in compliance with sub-section 216 ( 1 ) of the Bankruptcy Act; 
That all eleven deeds of arrangement provided in the recitals  (inter alia)  that: 
Recital A. The Debtor was at all material times a partner of Patrick Partners, Stock and Share Brokers (hereinafter referred to as 'the Firm') who carried on business principally in Sydney and Melbourne. 
Recital B. On 27 July 1975, the members of the Firm consisted of the persons named in Part A of the First Schedule hereto. Michael Ehrenfried Baume (hereinafter referred to as  'Mr Baume')  was prior to 24 February 1975 a partner in the Firm and there is a dispute between  Mr Baume  and the Firm as to whether he was a partner thereof as at 27 July 1975.  Mr Baume  claims to be entitled to indemnities in respect of the debts and liabilities of the Firm from certain of the Partners and Former Partners of the Firm. 
Recital C. On 27 July 1975, the Debtor, and the other members of the Firm (not including  Mr Baume)  signed an authority under Section 188 of the Act appointing the Trustee as his Controlling Trustee.  Mr Baume  also appointed the Trustee as his Attorney with powers limited to dealing with his interest (if any) in the Firm. 
Recital F. The Debtor is desirous of entering into this Deed of Arrangement in favour of his creditors in order to make arrangements for his affairs and secure payment of his debts in whole or in part to his said creditors on the terms and subject to the conditions herein contained. 
That all eleven deeds of arrangement provided in clause 9 that: 
In consideration of  Mr Baume  completing an agreement to make arrangements for the satisfaction of the debt of $ 106,082 claimed to be due by him to the Firm (the amount so paid by  Mr Baume  being part of the amount referred to in Clause 3 (b) hereof and forms part of the funds available for distribution to the Joint Creditors hereunder) and in consideration of the pay ments to be made by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of this Deed, the Joint Creditors each covenant with the Trustee not, during the Currency of the Deed, to bring any action, suit or demand or take any steps to enforce payment by or against  Mr Baume  for any indebtedness in respect of which  Mr Baume  may be jointly or severally liable with the Debtor to any Joint Creditor and on the expiration of the Currency of the Deed the claims of all Joint Creditors (whether Participating Creditors or otherwise) against  Mr Baume  shall be deemed to be fully discharged and satisfied and shall thereupon be released and extinguished. The Trustee shall agree with  Mr Baume  and subject to such indemnities as the Trustee may determine to seek to restrain any Joint Creditor from bringing any action, suit or demand or taking any step to enforce payment against  Mr Baume  arising out of any indebtedness to a Joint Creditor in respect of which  Mr Baume  is jointly liable with the Debtor or to defend any such action, suit or demand so brought. The Trustee shall also agree with  Mr Baume  that the Trustee will not bring any action suit or demand or take any steps to enforce payment by  Mr Baume  for any indebtedness due jointly or severally by  Mr Baume  to the Debtor or the Firm or in respect of which  Mr Baume  is responsible to the Firm whilstever  Mr Baume  observes and performs the obligations on his part contained in the agreement entered into by him with the Trustee hereinbefore provided and upon the expiration of the Currency of the Deed all such claims and demands against  Mr Baume  shall be released and extinguished. If  Mr Baume  fails to complete the agreement with the Trustee as hereinbefore provided before the Commencement Date then this Clause shall not apply to  Mr Baume. 
That all eleven deeds of arrangement provided in clause 1  (inter alia)  that: 
In this Deed unless the context otherwise requires the following expressions shall have the meaning set opposite the same respectively: 
The Commencement Date' means the date on which this deed is executed. 
Currency of the Deed' means the duration of the Deed is provided by Clause 14 hereof. 
That all eleven deeds of arrangement provided in clause 14 that: 
This Deed shall operate for a period of five (5) years from the Commencement Date. 
That the Honourable Member execute also on 19 March 1976 before any of the eleven deeds of arrangement were executed a deed as contemplated by the opening words of clause 9 hereinbefore referred to; 
That the Honourable Member has complied with the requirements of the relevant covenant in that deed; 
That in a judgement of 21 September 1976  Mr Justice  Riley of the Federal Court of Bankruptcy determined in the matter of Dowling and others: 
that on the evidence each of the deeds of arrangement was entered into in accordance with Part X of the Bankruptcy Act, complied with the requirements of that Part, and was duly executed by the debtor concerned and the Trustee; 
that pursuant to sub-section 233 ( 1 ) of the Bankruptcy Act each deed was therefore 'binding on all the creditors of the debtor'; 
that even though each of the eleven deeds related not only to the liabilities of the debtor who executed it but also those of the honourable member, it could validly contain provisions which refer to liabilities of a person other than the executing debtor; 
that a deed of arrangement may contain any reasonable provisions requisite to give effect to the purposes of the deed if they do not contravene those provisions of the Act made applicable to deeds under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act; 
that the effect of the provisions relating to the Honourable Member which the deeds contain is that $106,082 contributed by the Honourable Member may be available for distribution among the creditors that would not otherwise be available with the added advantage of the avoidance of litigation against the Honourable Member over his liabilities to creditors and by him over his entitlements to indemnity from his former partners; 
that there is nothing in these provisions that offends any provision of the Bankruptcy Act and each of the eleven deeds is valid and binding; 
that having regard to the circumstances of the execution of the deeds of arrangements the deed signed by the Honourable Member need only have been executed by him before the debtors executed their deeds of arrangement for clause 9 to apply and therefore as he did in fact execute his deed before the deeds of arrangement were executed creditors are bound by the deeds of arrangement and clause 9 of those deeds applies to the Honourable Member; 
that the injunctions sought by  Mr Jamison  the trustee of the deeds of arrangements pursuant to sub-section 30 ( 1 ) of the Bankruptcy Act be granted restraining certain creditors from taking any step to enforce payment by the Honourable Member for a debt in respect of which the said creditors alleged the Honourable Member is liable and which was the subject of proceedings in the Supreme Court of New South Wales and the making of an order that the creditors be restrained from proceeding with the action. 
That the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia provides (inter alia) in Section 45 (ii) that if a member of the House of Representatives takes the benefit, whether by assignment, composition or otherwise, of any law relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors his place shall thereupon become vacant. 
The House therefore resolves that the question whether the place of the Honourable Member for Macarthur has become vacant pursuant to the provisions of Section 45 (ii) of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia be referred for determination to the Court of Disputed Returns pursuant to section 203 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
I have been rather interested to hear the debate on this Bill for the repeal of the Bureau of Roads. It seems to me that there has been a great deal of agreement amongst honourable members in a debate on the various modes of transport and on what we should bc discussing. However, I think that I should bring the House back to some reality. What the Bill deals with is the repeal of the Act under which the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads was established. One of the grounds on which the Opposition is opposing this Bill is that there is to be nothing in its place in the sense that this Parliament has had an opportunity to consider the legislation and to consider the powers which will be given to the alternative amalgamated body. AH that we have is the assurance of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that the amalgamation is going to result in certain things taking place but in fact what will happen is that the amalgamated body will disappear into the Department of Transport. We on this side of the House express concern that that will remove this body from the consideration of the House and that it will be too susceptible to manipulation by various means and that in fact its operations will not be public enough for the various investigations being carried out to be seen. This, of course, is consistent with the general style of the Fraser Government in so many matters. 
I had occasion last week to comment that in governmental matters last year there were 300 regulations, I think, put forward, which was a record during the time of this Government for any one year. There was this tendency to remove the overview of the executive from the Parliament, where it properly rests. This is one of the objections we have to the repeal of this Act. We do not oppose an amalgamation of functions, but we believe that if there is to be an amalgamation of functions they should be clearly spelled out and the job that is to be carried out should be defined before this Parliament. We all have our particular reasons for showing interest in this legislation. I have 2 major reasons for showing interest. One is that I have had some contact with members of the staff of the present Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and I have heard their fears. Secondly, like so many other honourable members I have been approached by the local government organisations acting in concert as well as by one of my own local government organisations, the council of the City of Preston. I found the cases that they put had great persuasive influence. In regard to my own local council, I point out that it is predominantly a conservative council with 8 non-Labor members and 4 Labor members. So if its arguments are persuasive they must have a fair amount of basis to them. 
I would like to deal with the staff matter in fairness to the staff and in fairness to the Minister. The staff fears expressed indicate the very indefinite nature of the proposition that has been put forward. Members of the staff feel that despite the length of time involved they do not have a clear concept of what is going on. I will read a paragraph from the letter I received from two of the staff representing the Australian Public Service Association and the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association members in the Bureau of Roads. Amongst other things, they say: 
No doubt you are aware that 'amalgamation' was first announced in May 1976 and, hence, almost 12 months has elapsed - 
This was written on 16 March- and members of the staff of the Bureau of Roads are still left wondering and worrying. We have been given many assurances by the Minister and officers of the Department of Transport but none of these assurances appear to be being honoured. We are continually frustrated in our efforts to obtain positive information about our futures as correspondence, whether it emanates from us, from the Bureau, or from our staff associations inevitably finishes up in the Department of Transport and is not answered. 
On 2 occasions- on 2 December last year and yesterday- I addressed questions to the Minister on these matters and he gave answers to those questions without notice. I would add that in reference to yesterday's question he was courteous enough to give me a more detailed answer after he had had a chance to consider the question put to him. Rather than read that answer to the House I think that to complete the picture it should be incorporated in  Hansard.  I have discussed this with the Minister. I seek leave to have the letter of yesterday's date written to me by the Minister for Transport incorporated in  Hansard. 
It had been my intention to enter the grievance debate to speak on matters affecting the Department of Defence. However, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has raised the very important issue of Medibank bulk billing. It has concerned me deeply that the hysteria originally induced in the medical profession by the suggestion of a scheme to finance properly and fairly the cost of treatment of disease still continues. This Government made an election promise not to destroy Medibank. We have already seen how well that promise has been kept. The Government has even prevented Medibank Private from competing with other private insurance in the provision of paramedical services. Now it further attacks Medibank by attacking the basic reasonable and economic procedure of bulk billing, as if that were an ill of health insurance. 
It is not. Fee for service and its abuse is the ill from which the disadvantages flow. 
For many years before Medibank the medical profession had no difficulty whatsoever in bulk billing for a very substantial section of general practice- that is, for claims for repatriation and pensioner medical service. I refer those who read the  Medical Journal of Australia  to the editorial of 1 1 December 1976 headed:  'A Tipple with a Local Flavour': Social Medicine in Australia.  It describes the first major text on social medicine in Australia. The fact that it has only been written now is a shocking reflection on this country. The author, Professor Douglas Gordon states: 
. that Australia has developed yet another variant of 'Western' man, and that variant is socially distinctive. 
That is one of the considerations we must take into account in the provision of health services. It goes on to say that a specific form of organisation for the variant brings a lot of specific consequences. We could transfer very well this specific attitude to the provision of medical services, particularly amongst the medical profession, because they are part of that variant. They operate with much greater freedom and much greater licence than any other medical profession throughout the world. 
Rackets in pathology have given the excuse to attack bulk billing and to further weaken Medibank. On what basis is bulk billing blamed for the pathology rackets? It is not bulk billing that is at fault but the whole fee for service basis that allows it. It is clear that the medical profession sees bulk billing as giving some magical ability to control charges. The abolition of bulk billing will even further increase medical charges. It is said that abolition of bulk billing will give patients a chance to check whether they have indeed received the service. What nonsense! The language of pathology tests is a language of its own which doctors themselves have difficulty in continually updating. Why destroy the economies of bulk billing just because of the predatory attitude of a minority of doctors? It is indeed a minority who offend, who falsify and who split fees with referring doctors, either directly or by paying for maintaining a member of the staff of the referring doctor. That could be a nurse or a receptionist who theoretically handles the pathology tests. The medical profession itself can see that only a minority is involved, but for some inexplicable intellectual reason it wants bulk billing destroyed. Perhaps it wants maliciously to do that in order to destroy Medibank. 
In support of these charges one could point to a recent development in Victorian Government hospitals which have employed salaried radiologists for years. Now the suggestion is made that those salaried radiologists can opt out- that they can do 6 sessions paid on a sessional basis and be paid on a fee for service basis for the other 4 sessions in relation to non-public patients. One estimate is that on a fee for service basis the radiologists would receive a return for those 4 sessions of something like $140,000 a year. I suspect that the same attitude will be taken in respect of pathologists in government hospitals; they will be charging fees for non-public patients. So the cost of health services would be hidden even further and the actions of those doctors would be a further rip-off from the community. 
It has been suggested that Medibank leads to over usage of services and that bulk billing hides that fact. The opponents of Medibank then state the proposition that the abolition of bulk billing will reduce over usage. What do the facts show? The Budget estimate for medical benefits for this financial year is $7 10m, or 12.9 per cent above the 1975-76 figure. That does not indicate any escalation. Let us look at the  per capita  usage of medical services. The 1975-76 annual report of the Health Insurance Commission showed the usage figure as being 4.79 services per head of population. In 1974-75 the Director-General of Social Services put the figure at 5. 1 services per head of population and, with pensioners included, 5.5 services per head of population. Usage has not risen at all despite all the propaganda. The reason for that is quite clear. Being confident in their coverage of medical costs, people seek attention earlier and so their period of treatment is shortened. 
Let us have another look at the reason for the attack on bulk billing. The Government is seeking any method it can, however short term, to say that it is reducing expenditure. The abolition of bulk billing would mean delays in payment which would give a short term benefit. Let us look at the efficiency of bulk billing. I remind honourable members that with the Government's changes in Medibank the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria suggested that doctors bulk bill to that organisation. The cost of processing assigned benefits- that is, bulk billing -is much lower than any other claimant system. The Health Insurance Commission reported in June 1976 that the average cost of processing assigned benefits was only 34 cents per claim, compared with an average cost of 44 cents per cash claim and $1.14 per pay claimant or pay doctor cheque claim. In Medibank 's first year of operation 44.5 per cent of all medical claims were assigned benefits. That percentage figure represents 17.5 million claims. If we assume an average cost of cash and cheque claims of 79 cents, the increased cost of processing per claim would be at least 45 cents or $7.88m in a full year. That figure is most probably very conservative as only 18 per cent of medical claims were paid by cash in Medibank 's first year of operation, and the majority of claims could be expected to be pay doctor or pay claimant cheque claims, which is the most expensive method of processing. Then we have the delay which occurs between the date of service and payment of claims. If bulk billing is abolished that delay will greatly increase. The delay which occurred between the date of service and payment of claims was something like 89.2 days in the case of claimant cheque claims, 57.7 days for cash claims, and only 28.8 days for assigned benefits. 
Let me deal with the subject of cost. Under Labor's original Medibank proposals doctors who bulk billed were required to accept 85 per cent of the scheduled fee in full payment for their services. In October 1976 the Government abandoned that principle and permitted doctors to charge the additional 15 per cent gap between the assigned benefit and the scheduled fee. That decision undoubtedly contributed to increased costs, but it did retain some control over doctors', fees and charges. The Minister appealed to doctors not to charge pensioners and low income earners that 15 per cent gap. If bulk billing is abolished there will be no incentive for doctors to charge less than the scheduled fee. If we assume that all doctors would in future charge the scheduled fee the minimum increase in costs to the public, if bulk billing were abolished, would be $94.45m. 
One could go on talking about the problems of social justice that would occur if bulk billing were abolished. Because that would represent such a basic departure from the original concept of the Medibank scheme, it is with some disgust that we note any excuse, such as a minority of doctors racketeering amongst their patients, being used to attack Medibank and eventually to destroy it. That is the Government's objective. We will recover it from the wreckage after next year. 
-I seek leave to make a brief statement on the report. 
I thank the House. It is not my intention to review the recommendations in the report. I think that the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  the  Chairman  of the Committee, has quite adequately done so. This report represents a reasoned consensus of those members who carried out the investigation. 
I want to comment on some other aspects of the report. The first inquiry carried out by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation was an examination of the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga National Park. That inquiry was regarded as a trial run and it enabled members of the Committee to formulate guidelines on which to base their operations. I believe that some of the lessons that the Committee learned in its first inquiry have led it to being regarded as one of the most respected committees of this House. The guidelines drawn up by the Committee on that occasion have meant that the Committee has been able to talk in a sensible way about the various factors of the environment and conservation. The Ayers RockMount Olga National Park is a classical example of the relationship between national park usage and tourist pressures. The lessons learned from that first inquiry have stood the Committee in good stead. 
We should appreciate the fact that no answer proposed by a committee is final. There has been a reappraisal and some general adjustment of thoughts in respect to the question of how this area should be treated from an environmental point of view. The report now before the House contains some of those factors. The Committee has looked at past recommendations and at what attempts were made to carry out those recommendations. It has been able to consider some of the conditioning factors that led to the recommendations. As a result it has been able to rethink and revise those opinions. 
It would also be fair to say that in considering the temporary course to be followed we have had to pay some regard to economic policy and to try to achieve the best result within that policy. We have tried to do so even though the Committee is an all-party committee. One of the things that occurs in a discussion of the environmental aspects of a national park is the balance between the tourist emphasis and the national park aspect. The Committee discussed this matter when it was at Ayers Rock. I was about to suggest that the  Chairman  of the Committee sounded as though he was baying at the moon when he put his point of view there, but that is not quite true. However, there were some quite loud and vociferous discussions at Ayers Rock on the question of the balance between the tourist emphasis and the national park emphasis. Fortunately members of the Committee were able to arrive at a consensus with which we all agreed. 
I must confess that I have been concerned about 2 recent suggestions in the Press by public figures that the area around the national park should be a repository for radioactive uranium waste. I view this suggestion with abhorrence. 
The honourable member for Mallee, who is a member of the sub-committee, says that one could not take them seriously. I know one of the gentlemen concerned and I have the very highest respect for him. I was horrified that the suggestion should be made, that nuclear waste could be put, not in the park area, but in this region. Any support for such a proposal shows a lack of knowledge of people in the Territory, and the environmental considerations that there are in that area. I believe that every member of this House should combat such a proposal. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  would like to make a few remarks on the report so I shall conclude by saying that this report illustrates the importance for parliamentary committees to go back from time to time to review the work that they have done. That has been done on  this occasion and 1 am  sure that our work will benefit that area. 
-The discussion this afternoon has illustrated the vagaries of debate in this House. The matter before the House is a Bill to appeal the Australian Development Assistance Agency Act. In fact, we have had a very general debate on overseas aid .in much the same way as we did when the Asian Development Bank legislation was being discussed. I suppose I will have the same opportunity to speak generally as other honourable members have had but before entering into the more general area I would once again like to voice the same sorts of criticisms as I made yesterday on the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads (Repeal) Bill. It seems to me that many of these agencies that have been set up and do give some flexibility, that do some investigating, that do give some advice and are easily seen to be functioning are now being abolished. Some of the reasons given are for economy in the conduct of the Agency and for economy of staffing. My real fear is the hidden reason. This is the attempt by the Government to avoid oversight of its actions in these matters. We see agencies, which should be open, restricted in their activities by perhaps, being starved of finance by the Department, not being fully available to examination and not having the autonomy that they have had before. Having said that, I address myself to some of the matters that arise with regard to aid. In recent years, major international conferences and intensive studies of world crises have made it very clear that the problems of food, population, unemployment and the environment all have roots in poverty and inequality within and between nations. We have all heard the high sounding resolutions put forward at places such as the United Nations. We have seen World Food conferences, the establishment of aid and credit agencies, the Common Fund. We have seen meetings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development- UNCTAD- in various spots where there has been talk about how it will help the developing nations and overcome the inequality that occurs in those nations. 
The developing nations rightly believe that the division of the world into rich and poor is largely a function of the international economic order and that a new international economic order is now necessary in the interests of the international community as a whole. On 1 May 1974 the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a 'Declaration on the Establishment of a new International Economic Order'. The Declaration concludes by saying: 
The present Declaration shall be one of the most important bases of economic relations between all people and all nations. 
Kurt Waldheim has said: 
The new Economic Order is the price of peace. 
The Common Fund is one of the major areas of debate in discussion of a new economic order. Of this,  President  Nyerere of Tanzania has said: 
The objectives of the people of the underdeveloped countries can, I think, be summed up in trade union phraseology- fair pay and conditions for a fair day 's work. 
All honourable members know that the Government, and particularly its conservative backers, have little faith in the United Nations. We have only to witness the wicked campaign whipped up by Government supporters on aid given via the United Nations to refugees in Africa. The cynical propaganda line was that Labor was supporting terrorists. But, lo and behold, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said something about the new economic order. He did not say it in 
Australia, in Parliament or in his radio broadcasts to the faithful of Wannon but in Port Moresby on 1 0 February 1 977. He said: 
There is a need for change in policies between nations, sometimes for significant change. To the extent that the call for a new international economic order is a call for practical and viable change in economic policies affecting the international economic system, it should have the support of all nations. 
I do not know who wrote that speech for the Prime Minister. Admittedly, he qualified his remarks so that they meant very little but they were fine words because this is the man whose Government cut aid by 25 per cent in its first Budget and whose Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  is now supervising the submergence of the Aid Agency established by the Labor Government in 1974. This is the Government which, in erecting higher and higher tariff barriers, has already provoked retaliation from the Philippines, and which is transforming the Industries Assistance Commission into a tame cat organisation. International goals for one per cent of the gross national product of the developed nations to go towards aid have now slipped to 0.7 per cent. In Australia people are petitioning the Prime Minister to raise the goal for the sake of humanity. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-Before dinner in addressing myself to the repeal of the Australian Development Assistance Agency Act I had referred to my fears of how the Australian Development Assistance Agency would lose its identity. I had made some remarks about the needs and the goals in international aid. Of course our fearless but trampled on Foreign Minister eloquently supported the aid Agency when it was introduced, but at the time he criticised the Australian Labor Party when the BDI was being debated. He waxed cynical about the tragedy in Ethiopia, trying to extract every emotional response from the electorate. He criticised the then Government because aid principles were not stated in the tabling of the Bill by the then Foreign Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, knowing full well that an advisory board was to be set up and that the staff of the Agency would nearly all come from the Department of External Territories and that in the early days the Agency would be overwhelmingly concerned with the phasing out of Papua New Guinea. 
What do we say about the present Foreign Minister's fine principles when he now scuttles the Agency and is embarassed by being reminded of his own words? He argued that a rose by any other name would smell as sweet. 
This is not the case with the ADAA. He had a victory insofar as he has still been able to gain some identity for the Agency rather than see it totally absorbed into the Department of Foreign Affairs. But the real problem is that the autonomy is gone. The advisory board is gone and the Bureau will now be subservient to Treasury and predominantly Foreign Affairs' attitudes. For example the Treasury has coincidentally released figures in the last few days showing that less than 30 per cent of the aid budget is spent overseas, hence people cannot argue that more aid will not be inflationary. But the answer to this is to untie our aid; that is to insist on measures that mean a maximum of our money is spent in the recipient countries. But the Department of Foreign Affairs argues against untying our aid and using as an argument that the Treasury will fight to lower the aid budget further if it sees more money actually being spent overseas and not in Australia where our industry will benefit. This is the sort of bind the new Bureau will be in. I could cite other examples. 
There has always been a selfish motive in Australian aid policies but now that the Philistines have taken over in the Liberal Party our aid policy will be totally self-directed with perhaps the exception of our aid to Papua New Guinea, which should be regarded as a special case. The fact is that the aid agency was only just finding its feet, carrying out self-examination, and arriving at intelligent policies. It seems to me that too many of the Agency's resources were directed towards the supervision of overseas students in Australia. Of course, as Treasury ignores, this is the reason why so much of our aid money was spent in Australia. But here again this is not a reason for attacking and decimating the Agency. It may well be more logical to transfer the educational supervision of overseas students into other departments. If this is not sensible the aid agency must be clear and show the large portion of its budget that goes to student supervision and Papua New Guinea and the minor part that goes to the rest of the world. 
Of the rest of the world Indonesia, even in terms of self-interest, must rank highly. Although I am critical of military aid going to Indonesia and the reasons for it, our policies in this area must be constant, consistent and be thought through. Australia has much to offer particularly with respect to the delivery of agricultural technology at a level that will be of great benefit to Indonesia. If we forget the politics and cynicism of the Government in the Bill before the House we must recognise that it is a fact of administrative political life in developed countries that during times of economic downturn aid will be turned off. Foreign Affairs budgets are notorious for being cut in such times when Treasury dominance is at its highest. As a generalisation, examination of the administration of aid in Development Assistance Committee members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development shows that when a country or government is taking aid most seriously it sets up a separate ministry with autonomy to act untrammelled by day to day inter-departmental rivalry. Hence the British Labour Government set up a separate department in 1964. Japan has aid administered by 14 departments where the aim of aid is more donor directed. 
Time does not allow me a full canvassing of the administrative and bureaucratic problems of aid. Aid is an ideological beast and bureaucracies in general have tended to try to locate the control of aid within the context of existing bureaucratic arrangements and the considerations of power on which those rest. The administrative choice is between centralisation of policy and implementation or dispersion. As I have said, if policy control of aid is being taken seriously it is centralised. This is what Labor did. Worse than dispersing the control of aid, the present Government is maintaining central control but at the same time submerging aid administration into a bureau where not only will money for aid be more easily switched off but also there will no longer be in Australia the facility for a continuing debate on aid. The Government should be censured for the dreadful action it is taking in repealing this Act and in fact for taking this sort of action in so many other areas. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="104131197704192_35_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197704192_36_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197704192_37_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197704192_38_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197704192_39_4.jpg"></graphic>

There is a move to increase the number of  refugees entering Australia and details of this are due to be announced shortly in Canberra by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. This will take place after many months of investigation and consideration. It is interesting to note that in nearly 2 years 2477 war refugees from Saigon have been admitted to this country, and 4000 refugees have been admitted from Lebanon since the conflict in that country began. Of course, they have been admitted to join relatives in Australia. This to my knowledge and to the Government's knowledge has been a most successful migration. Finally, I should say that this is a most important matter. As I have said previously, in the short term we have problems with migrants coming to this country because of our situation here, but in the long term we must program for many more migrants to come here to help us develop this country and to hold it. 
-When I last addressed myself to this Bill and the debate was interrupted I had briefly outlined some of the complaints that had been made by members of the staff of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. I had also entered into some of the arguments that have been raised by local governments on this issue. I think it was made clear that the Australian Labor Party has no opposition to the amalgamation of the 2 bodies that is suggested. Our objection is to the lack of legislation to deal with the replacement for those bodies. One should take some notice of the history of this matter. The Coomb's task force report of June 1973,  Review of the Continuing Expenditure Policies of the Previous Government,  in item 48, paragraph 5 contains the following comment: 
There appears to have been no compelling reason for setting up the Bureau of Transport Economics separately in 1970, - 
That was under a previous Liberal Government- rather than enlarging the functions of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads to take in all of surface transport. The main reason appears to have been that the Bureau of Roads had gained the confidence of the States and it was feared that, given the inter-modal jealousies existing in the transport field, widening its functions might complicate its role in the roads field, in which extensive liaison with State road authorities occurred. The independence which its statutory role gave to the Bureau of Roads appears also to have been unwelcome to the proponents of a wider ranging transport research bureau. 
In that lies some of the reasons for the action being taken by this Government in abolishing the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, not replacing it by another body with any legislative description, but letting it disappear within the Department where it will be subject to political direction. Further, its independent assessments will not be available. Since the debate was last in the House I have received a stream of correspondence on this matter. I refer to some of the points made which tend to confirm that many people active in the field believe as the Labor Party believes. For example, the Municipal Association of Victoria affirms: 
That Commonwealth legislation to replace the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads should also set out the role, functions and responsibilities of the amalgamated body. 
That the new body should be independent reporting directly to the Minister - 
One would hope that it would be reporting to the Parliament as well- 
That levels of consultation existing with the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and which demonstrate cooperative federalism at work be maintained. 
That is something that we had achieved and which had gained real meaning. Another local government body, the City of Heidelberg, which wrote to me, supporting this submission unfortunately places its accent on increased funding and requests that this view be supported in any legislation covering road funding in the near future'. The Bureau of Roads did something more than that in its examination. I turn once more to another local council in my area, the City of Preston. The reason I refer to the correspondence from this council is that a majority of its councillors are anti-Labor Party. 
-If the honourable member for Darling Downs put his brain into gear before he opened his mouth he might appreciate the argument which is being made. 
Yes, they are anti-Labor. 
Yes, they are elected by the people and they disagree with the actions which are being taken by this Government in destroying the independent Bureau of Roads by failing to define its structure. Groups which would support the honourable member for Darling Downs are objecting to the action which this Government is taking. 
Yes, it is suppressing independent examination. The councillors are democratically elected and they are saying to the Government: 'What you are doing is atrocious'. They express their concern. Probably because I have the same view as they have they think they are disadvantaged by this Government. They recognise the bias and lack of common sense. A letter states: 
My council is very concerned at the complete disregard by the Commonwealth of the recommendations of the Bureau of Roads, not only in relation to the level of assistance to be given but the manner in which these funds have been allocated between the various categories of road works. 
A table has been included in the letter and it highlights this point. Because of time I ask for leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
-The honourable member for Denison - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The question before the Committee now is: 'That the Bill, as amended, be agreed to'. I call the honourable member for Hawker. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? As there is no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. The Minister may recall that some weeks ago, in replying to a question of mine, he informed the House that officers of his Department were monitoring the public debate on uranium. Can he inform the House how many officers of his Department are occupied with this monitoring? What is the nature of their duties in carrying out this task? Will the results of their monitoring be conveyed to the House at any stage? 
It is very interesting to follow the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman).  He is one of those young honourable members who came into Parliament on the tide. He has absorbed the mottoes that are being mouthed by his colleagues. I heard him use the term 'dole bludger'. I guarantee he has not found one. He is like the rest of his colleagues. There has been a complete absence of any proof for that phrase that has been bandied around so much. He talked about the profligate spending of the Labor Government; yet this area of education is the very area where so much of that expenditure occurred. So much was needed to solve the problems present. He said that his Government's commitment to education is undoubted. There were mass meetings of teachers and parents recently in most capital cities. If he heard the derision with which the televised comments and the guarantees of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  were received he would not be too happy. 
I return to the legislation before the House. Like the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Kingston, I think we are agreed that the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill is a necessary measure to preserve the right and benefits of those teachers who have transferred. Having said that, we can concentrate on the Tertiary Education Commission BUI. My first attitude to this was that we should completely oppose the inclusion of the Technical and Further Education Commission in this Tertiary Education Commission. My attitude has somewhat softened since the proposal was put forward. One of the reasons why, whilst the Opposition is critical, it is prepared to give the BUI a go is that it gives recognition to technical and further education as a field of tertiary education. I suppose one could comment that this is more than has happened before in the real legislative sense. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  in his second reading speech, as reported on page 1154  of Hansard  of 2 1 April, said: 
To exclude technical and further education from the coordinating mechanism would be to fail to appreciate the inevitable working interface between colleges of advanced education and institutions of technical and further education and the continuous need to rationalise functions between the two. It would ignore also the need to upgrade the role of technical and further education in the post-secondary sector. 
I do not know that the argument is necessarily a valid one, but it raises a matter which makes this Commission believable and makes one hope that perhaps with the warnings the Opposition has given in its amendment something might be achieved. One of the questions we have to ask is whether the 3 groups to be included in this Commission are compatible. One would have thought that the universities and colleges of advanced education fitted into a compatible group because of a similarity in structure and in many of their courses; but I would remind the House that only last year when the matter of academic salaries for staffs at universities and colleges of advanced education was brought before the Academic Salaries Tribunal the General Secretary of the Federation of Staff Associations of the Australian Colleges of Advanced Education was moved to comment in writing to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  that in August he had advised the Minister of the serious educational implications that would flow from tacit acceptance of the Tribunal's findings. He said in the letter that there should be an immediate review so that rebuttal evidence could go forward. Referring to the Tribunal's remarks, he said: 
These remarks, often unsubstantiated, will do serious harm to the colleges of advanced education and therefore to the community, which looks to the colleges to provide an alternative form of tertiary education which must not be seen in their eyes as being in any way inferior to a university education. 
That illustrates that there will be some difficulties in marrying even the universities and colleges of advanced education in this sort of set-up. The universities, through the Universities Commission, have a much longer history of operating in the political and educational field of getting grants. They know the tricks of the trade. 
They are elitist in many ways. They have a clout that perhaps the colleges of advanced education do not quite have. Certainly the technical and further education institutions do not have this experience. They do not have this clout. One is concerned that technical and further education may be the Cinderella and may become submerged in this Commission. After all, the question of the States providing 83 per cent of the finance has been nonchalantly shrugged off. It is a pretty important factor in the matter. It means that technical and further education is one area of tertiary education that has some differences from the other 2 areas, that there is this greater State involvement, and so much will depend on the performance of State governments. State governments are not necessarily good performers. Those are some of the questions we raise, some of the reasons why we suggest in our amendment that there must be adequate financial resources to raise the standards of the technical sector to the levels envisaged in the original Kangan report. 
The other aspects of the amendment are no less important, and I refer to the measures to be taken to ensure that technical education in Australia is not further isolated from secondary education. I notice that the term 'post-school education' is being used to describe tertiary education. It is very easy to see the stream of secondary education leading to the universities and colleges of advanced education. It is much less easy to see a consistent stream in the secondary field leading to technical and further education. If one compares developments in that field in the various States there is a very marked difference. For example, I submit that Victoria has a much more clearly defined system for secondary education in the technical field leading into this area, and I am concerned that we might lose sight of this problem if technical and further education in the tertiary sense becomes submerged in the Tertiary Education Commission. 
Finally, there is the matter of the term 'further education', and much of this is concerned with adult education. One does not hear it talked about too much in parliamentary circles, in political circles, or even in education circles, yet in the past it has shown fuckers of becoming a very fruitful field for enabling the continuance of lifelong education. One would like to feel that there is a possibility that it will be properly followed through. In speaking to the amendment, the honourable member for Kingsford Smith gave some notice that in the Committee stage the Opposition would be moving amendments requiring not only the new Tertiary Education Commission to present an annual report to the Minister for Education which he must then present to Parliament, but that the 3 advisory councils should do so also. The reason for that is that decisions in this field must eventually be political. It is the Government's responsibility to take the decisions. It is the parliamentary responsibility to oversight those decisions. But when the Government pre-empts the Commission's findings, or the Council's findings, as in this case, by giving it strict guidelines within which to work, we have no way of assessing the real needs in the field and applying ourselves to questioning in parliamentary oversight whether the Government's decision was responsible or correct. It is up to the councils and the commission to be able to report freely, as the Technical and Further Education Commission did on the 1977-79 triennium, and to be able to report critically on the needs, as the TAFE Commission did, battling against guidelines which were laid down. Such reporting is necessary so that we know what the needs are in a particular field, whether it be universities, advanced education or technical and further education, and can analyse for ourselves just how bad or how good the Government's decision on expenditure and encouragement in certain areas will be. 
There is much in the report of the TAFE Commission for 1977-79 that leads one to be concerned about the joining of the Commissions. One wonders whether the extent of technical and further education is really realised. I refer to some of the attitudes of the Commission. In paragraph ( 10) on page xxv of its summary of conclusions the Commission acknowledges that there is a need to continue to co-operate with the tertiary commissions in examining the overall provision but it comments that there is an equally strong need for action at the State level to ensure rationalisation of educational resources in the post-school sector. One would like to know who will report on that, who will give us the information on that and what is the extent of the technical field. 
Paragraph ( 1 3 ) of the summary of conclusions reads: 
Interpreting available data conservatively, the Commission estimates that the equivalent full-time student enrolments of the State TAFE Departments/Divisions in 1975 were some 163 500 as compared with some 126 900 in universities and some 98 200 in colleges of advanced education. Put another way, TAFE is meeting rather more than 40 per cent of the total institutional load of post-secondary education. 
As to funding, it says: 
Relating student load to resources available reveals that the public sector has been providing per equivalent full time student in TAFE only 37 per cent of the funds provided per equivalent full time student in the tertiary sector. 
That leads me to have some concern as to what will happen when the 3 areas in tertiary education are put up against one another. As I mentioned previously, one concern is that there is a much greater State financial involvement in the area of technical and further education. In its report the Commission comments as follows: . . . most States have been able to do little in recent years towards meeting TAFE's needs for accommodation and for programs to improve its efficiency. 
So one sees technical and further education going into this new Tertiary Education Commission not in quite the same way as universities and colleges of advanced education, because of the differences in responsibility and financing and because of the greater involvement in it of State initiatives and State programs. It is difficult to see how a combined Commission will be able to give a fair picture of what is needed because there will be many factors outside the control of that Commission, whereas those factors are much more readily controlled in the field of universities and colleges of advanced education. 
I think that covers the 4 points in the amendments. There are 3 amendments to the second reading of the Bill and 2 proposed for the Committee stage. My colleague the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has dealt with the first part which points out the disadvantaged position of technical education in Australia and which requests that its recognition not be overlooked. I know that assurances were given in the second reading speech by the Minister for the Capital Territory, but we are faced with the inherent problem of an inbuilt elitist attitude that this area of education may be disadvantaged. If none of the amendments are carried, I hope at least that in the Committee stage we will insist that annual reports from the Commission and the 3 councils are presented to enable not only governments to make decisions but also the Parliament to exercise oversight. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Does the Prime Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, concerns statements he made to the effect that no Premier at the Premiers' Conference sought tax cuts in relation to a prices and wages freeze. 
At the end of my answer I said: 
In the forum of the Premiers' Conference itself no Premier mentioned tax cuts. There is nothing else to add. 
What I said is perfectly correct in relation to a wages-prices freeze. I should draw the attention of the House to the fact that on an earlier occasion I think  Mr Dunstan-  quite unrelated to a wages-prices freeze and not even on the same day- had mentioned tax cuts. I would not want it to be thought that he had not done so. Other Premiers might have, but not in relation to a wages-prices freeze. I only repeat that when that part of the discussion was being undertaken no Premier mentioned tax cuts. I think it would be rather odd for all Premiers to put their signatures to a document which did not mention tax cuts in relation to a wages-prices freeze if they in fact thought that tax cuts ought to be mentioned in relation to a wages-prices freeze. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197704271_26_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197704271_27_1.jpg"></graphic>

Mention was made of the fact that 10 per cent of our students take advantage of tertiary education throughout Australia. However, I believe that in country areas only 2 per cent of our young people have the opportunity and are able to take advantage of tertiary education, mainly because of the lack of facilities. Accommodation of students in country areas is often a limiting factor, even in areas where facilities do exist. I firmly believe that increased funding in this area is essential. The National Country Party supports this Bill. We believe it sets a basis for education in the tertiary area to develop in a manner best suited to the needs of the Australian people  (Quorum formed). 
I wish to raise a matter which affects naturalised Australians who have dual nationality. Recently my office was approached by one of my constituents,  Mr Nicolo  Viskovic of 17 Livingstone Street, Reservoir. The approach was made with reference to his 31 -year-old son, Fabio, who at the moment is facing induction into the Italian Army at Trieste. Fabio Viskovic is a naturalised Australian citizen. I have here a copy of his naturalisation certificate. It is dated 28 February 1 969. It might interest you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to know that the usual occupant of that chair was Minister for Immigration at that time.  His  signature appears on the certificate. At any rate, Fabio Viskovic left Australia on 20 March this year and went to Trieste. While he was there he decided to purchase a vehicle with which to get around during his prolonged visit  10  his country of origin. To do so it was necessary for him to apply for temporary residence. The result of his applying for temporary residence was that he then received notice of callup for the Italian army. Not wishing to join the army he visited the Australian Consulate in Milan where he was informed of his rights regarding his Australian passport and was told that the Consulate could do nothing further about it. 
At this end in Australia his parents visited the Italian Consulate and our own Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs with no result. They then contacted my office. A member of my staff comments that he contacted an officer of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs. To use his own words, he was told courteously by them the position that applied and that nothing could be done in circumstances where an Australian citizen retains dual nationality because of the agreement between the 2 governments. It occurs to me that one hears of these cases from time to time. Here we have a 31 -year-old man who has been a naturalised Australian for some 8 years and who through sentiment, I suppose, visits his country of origin and suddently finds himself about to be inducted into the army of the country of his origin, with all of the things that flow from that which affect his future. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Banks who informs me that they do not get paid in the Italian army. I can understand why the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  agrees with that. I wonder how he would have faced up to his long years of career service in the Army if he had not been paid. I am sure that he would have regretted that under those circumstances he would not have been able to obtain the superannuation benefits that he probably gets as a result of his service in the defence forces. I draw this matter to the attention of the House not in any spirit of rancour or any criticism. This is a problem that has to be faced. 
As long as I can retain the rank I happen to have on the Reserve I would not mind, because I would be as well paid as the honourable member was paid. I raise this matter because I think we probably could give it some thought. Perhaps the Government should contact those governments with which we have dual nationality agreements to see whether this sort of situation can be solved. In this way we could avoid the situation in which 31 -year-old Australian citizens who have been naturalised for 8 years obtain temporary residence permits and find themselves in an army in which they have no desire to be. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent General Business Notice No. 14 being considered forthwith. 
I have the motion in writing and I understand that the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  will second it. 
I have moved for the suspension of Standing Orders because I believe that the matter contained in the notice is important to the very conduct of Parliament itself. Sufficient time has elapsed since the giving of the notice for honourable members to assess that unless some positive action is taken it will be on the notice paper for an indefinite time. For that to occur would be unfair to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  and to the House itself. To neglect to discuss it would reflect on the Parliament's duty to be jealous in preferring its own dignity and not to be seen to stand in the way of the due legal process. Parliaments in the Westminster system express the necessary qualifications of their members in different ways and define procedures for determining those qualifications in a variety of ways. In Australia we have a written Constitution which is treated with a great deal of reverence. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Scullin be not further heard. 
It is often my lot to follow the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  in debate. Today I decided to exercise that self-discipline that would not allow me to respond to him as I usually do. Frankly, he disarms me. I can only assume that the National Party Minister for Local Government in Queensland has fallen out of favour with  Mr Joh  Bjelke-Petersen and so will join the former Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, the former Minister for Justice, and a number of others and shortly disappear into the limbo of past Ministers and ex-Ministers. Having succumbed to the temptation in that way, I should now like to proceed to discuss the Appropriation Bills, which are routine measures that allow members of the House quite wide ranging discussions on the Government's economic policy. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  which is a legitimate method of reaffirming the Opposition's attitude to some of the incredible economic policies of this Government. I say freely to the House that, like most other members, I am not an economist. However, I do try to read so that I can understand what those policies mean. 
And a fairly successful politician in the Scullin electorate, too, if the honourable member for Swan will accept that. 
-I am going to refer later to the modest member of Parliament. One of the things that concerns me in this area is that if the economy is to revive it is necessary that there should be confidence in all sectors in investment, in business and amongst the consumers. It is necessary that there be increased consumer spending. It should be remembered that, like me, most people in that field are not economists and that unless they have an understanding of what is going on, these factors are not going to occur. There will still be lack of confidence; there will still be lack of consumer spending. One of the problems with this Government's economic policy is that, for the ordinary person in the street whom it affects, it is so hard to understand. There seems to be a basic assumption by the Government that if it says it has made savings in public expenditure everyone sees that as necessarily being a good thing. But many people in business do not necessarily accept that it is a good thing. Those in industry who were providing employment through the satisfying of government contracts for essential works do not see insensate slashing of programs as a good thing, and that produces an attitude of great doubt in the community. 
I know that there is a certain euphoria on the Government benches because of the consumer price index rise announced today. I hope that euphoria will not stop the Government from thinking seriously about how real that figure is and how real is the benefit which it might be felt to indicate. After all, in that respect one only has to refer back to last month's  Rydge's  magazine, scarcely a Labor paper. Its comment was that the inflation rate for the last calendar year was 13.7 per cent. When the devaluation decision bites, which will be in the June quarter of this year, Australia's inflation rate will rise to much above that. That is going to be the real test. I know that we can quote from all sorts of sources, but I am quoting from a conservative source. 
One of the other things that concerns me is that it is politically expedient for the Government to blame all the economic troubles on the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975. It did that in opposition. It still does it. Even in opposition it would not accept that there were external economic factors applying which gravely affected Australia. Its problem in sticking to that line of argument is that it now has its back to the wall on any let-out. It is still faced with the problem of claiming consistently that all the problems are domestic and have been produced domestically. I refer to an article which appeared earlier in the year in the magazine  Newsweek.  It stated: 
The unemployment rolls were pared a bit, idle plants were humming once again and government policymakers suddenly breathed easier. 
That sounds like Government Ministers after midday today. One wonders how long it will last. The article continues: 
On the heels of the worst recession in 2 generations, the economies of both rich and poor nations alike were expanding in 1 976- the year of the recovery. 
Was this reflected in Australia? I submit not much. It further states: 
But the recession and the events that accompanied it had left a disturbing legacy. Inflationary levels were still high in many industrial countries, causing a new wave of turmoil in the international monetary system. And to finance their expansions, the developing nations borrowed and borrowed and borrowed, throwing themselves deeper into debt and threatening an already fragile global financial structure. 
What we do not see in the Government's discussion of the economy is the effect that this has on the Australian economy. One American economist commented: 
Without substantial stimulus, the economic recoveries in both Germany and Japan may be finished, and with slow growth in the US, there is no way for the world recovery to continue. 
That is the sort of area in which I think Australia has to show some responsibility and some concern. There should be some explanation of how these factors affect Australia and what flows from them. What we have had in Australia, because of this concentration on the domestic situation, is a loss of real wages to the worker which leads to further cuts in that consumption and confidence that I mentioned before. This Government has exacerbated this matter by its actions. I think that probably this Government subscribes to the argument adopted by some of the old fashioned theorists, namely, that a pool of unemployed would help slow wage demands and reduce the level of industrial unrest that is said to be instigated by the more militant sections of the trade union movement. I think that what happened in Australia effectively disproves this. Really, if the Government were to rely on this weapon, the numbers of people out of work in Australia would have to be so large that the bulk of small businesses in the country would be forced into insolvency. There would be no consumer led recovery which is one of the things that is needed while unemployment remains so high. 
I comment on that because it is pretty obvious that what this Government is aiming for is industrial confrontation. It is taking a hard line. It has said: 'We have this domestic economic strategy and we want to confront the union movement in order to show who is boss and enforce our views'. It is doing this even though the outcome of the strategy is not certain. It has been tried elsewhere and has failed. We see this present statement of the prices-wages freeze given with no guidelines. We saw the response of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to  Mr Bob  Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, when he offered to consider the wage freeze in return for cuts in taxation. We only have to go back to the end of November last year when the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  was making certain comments on the economy and when  Mr Hawke  offered that same sort of deal to the Government. It was not a matter brought up because of this so-called prices-wages freeze. I am afraid that I do not know what this Government means by the term 'prices-wages freeze '. I do not understand that there are any guidelines for it. It appears to me that we can draw the following analogy from the present situation: The Government has asked the trade union movement to give it a blank signed cheque but it will be allowed to determine the colour of the cheque. The trade union movement has given that proposition the rejection it so rightly deserves. If the Government wanted the freeze to work, if it believed it should work, it should be delineating guidelines to allow a national conference of all those persons interested to discuss how the freeze can be used to bring about economic recovery and how it can be used to inspire confidence in the investment and business sector in Australia to cause that necessary increase in consumer spending. 
I submit that the Government has been derelict in its actions and quite irresponsible in this field. It brought up the idea of a prices-wages freeze as a public relations stunt. It has been shown to have no substance. It is an idea that so many countries have talked about either on a voluntary or compulsory basis. There are variations in such a freeze if one thinks of the guidelines. Without knowing those guidelines, how can one assess the genuineness of this attempt? One can only reject it as a complete public relations exercise. 
I want to refer to a couple of the more specific things that are contained in these Appropriation Bills. At this stage I refer to that 'Modest Member' of Parliament. Some time ago in one of his regular articles he was pointing out that no really worthwhile tax cuts could be made without a corresponding cutback in welfare services. He pointed out that most of the peripheral cuts in expenditure in the Public Service had already been made and only the big ticket items were left to cut in return for tax savings. I believe that the 'Modest Member' indicated that these areas were education receiving 9. 1 per cent of government outlays; health, 2 per cent of government outlays; social security and welfare, 25.4 per cent; and payments to the States and local government authorities, 21.1 per cent. 
-I accept that they are right. I have a great deal of respect in many ways for the 'Modest Member' for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I only feel that he needs some remedial teaching in politics. 
Yes, not much longer though. The point I am making is that the 'Modest Member' said: 
Some would cut the defence vote but not 1. I remember how we bared our breasts to the aggressor in 1939 by doing just that. 
One can understand that sort of reaction in understanding Australian history. But there must be a growing body of opinion on both sides of the House which starts to question defence expenditure. Defence expenditure appears to be able to go on without proper assessment of how efficient is that expenditure. Obviously, I am citing what was stated in an magazine article that the 'Modest Member' probably has read. But it makes some pretty legitimate comments that I think the Government should answer. It points out that when asked by both the Whitlam and Fraser Governments, the Defence Department's own assessment was that there was no discernible military threat to Australia in the foreseeable future. At that time, it was going into an assessment of the aircraft Australia should have to replace the Mirage fighters. Why they had to be replaced has never been explained politically. It was a desire of the Department. There was a suggestion that it was feasible to undertake a rebuilding program on the aircraft and that we should keep them in active service for the next decade at a fraction of the cost of purchasing new aircraft. It was suggested also that, if we carried out that plan, the Mirage would continue far to outstrip any opposition it would be likely to encounter in this region. In fact, it was offered as an aside that the only opposition would be likely to come, after all, from the 1950s vintage Sabres of the Indonesian Air Force which were given to Jakarta by Australia. That is not an unreasonable comment. 
In addition to that sort of activity the Air Force is interested in buying some 40 specialised ground attack jets. There are problems involved in buying those aircraft. One could ask also whether the F-15 fighter, which is the one mentioned, is necessarily the best. There are other aircraft, that have multi-role capabilities, which could be just as effective as the F-15, and which could be purchased at a much lower cost. 
I turn to the Navy. I remind the House that, in February 1976, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  announced the decision to buy two of the American FFG-7 patrol frigates. Those small 2,500 tonners, he estimated, would cost $330m. He was careful to add that that figure was calculated at January 1976 prices. That would be the cost for the 2 ships, helicopters, missiles and other gear. I understand that nobody in the Department of Defence believes that that will be the cost when they come into service in 1982, but that it will be at least $500m. The Navy now wants to order one more. One questions whether those are necessarily the best type of work boats for the Navy. When doing an investigation with the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation just recently, one was led to reflect on the extent of the coastline of Australia and the type of naval craft that were best suited to our purposes, being a large continent with a large coastline and a small population. We would probably be better off with many more small patrol boats. 
I do not particularly want to get into an involved discussion on that matter. What I am saying is that that sort of expenditure might be looked at in view of the fact that there is no discernible threat in the near future. Apparently not a great deal of testing is done of aircraft and vessels which we are buying. We might well carry out an assessment of the role in Australian defence and the increasing cost of the types of naval vessels being purchased, despite the 'Modest Member's' reservations in treating the matter as a holy cow. I hope that the Government does apply the same cnterion when it is thinking of cutting expenditure on education, health and social welfare and when it is increasing the problems we face by ensuring that the numbers of students at our schools and tertiary institutions are maintained at much higher numbers than is necessary because of the lack of opportunities it creates for them. The Government has to offer special stimulus for the creation of enough apprenticeship places, and I believe that not enough apprenticeship places are being created. In Victoria there are many more applicants for apprenticeship places than there are vacancies available. 
-On 6 April throughout Australia's principal cities rallies were held on educational matters of interest to parents, citizens and teachers. I attended one in Melbourne held at the Camberwell Civic Centre. There I had handed to me details of several schools in my electorate. I intend to relay to the House the information about one of them because what concerns me in the light of the Government's devolution of responsibility to the States is that it illustrates the States' inability, despite the injection of federal finance in recent years, to cope with the great problems that exist. I wish to refer to the Preston Girls High School. On a pro forma answers were given to various questions. Firstly the school was asked to describe its educational aims. The answer was: 
As a female, migrant school in a low socio-economic area, we have the base aims of equipping students to cope adequately with varied situations in life, to contribute positively to their community- local, ethnic and Australian. 
Referring to physical and human resources and referring to buildings, the next question was: 
How many extra rooms do you need? 
The answer was 10 general classrooms. The answer to a question concerning special purpose rooms stated that 3 were needed. They were specified as a library, a gymnasium and an assembly hall. The next question was: 
How many existing rooms need total replacement? 
The answer was fourteen. They were portables and Bristol temporary accommodation that had existed since 1949. With regard to special purpose rooms there was a need to replace three because they were noisy, crowded and cold. The next question asked whether any of the existing class rooms needed substantial upgrading. The school was unable to suggest any that could be substantially upgraded. The answer said that upgrading was needed in covered walkways and staircases. It was said that 3 special purpose rooms needed upgrading. They were typing rooms that had inadequate space and equipment, preventing any expansion of the programs. 
The most alarming thing is the answer to the next question. The question reads: 
Is your school on a State Department list of school building projects for any of the above? 
In respect of extra rooms the answer is 'don 't know'. In respect of the replacement of rooms the answer is 'no'. In respect of substantial upgrading of rooms the answer is 'no'. In regard to all the projects suggested in this area the answer is 'no'. The school needs other facilities. It needs a gymnasium, an assembly hall, even a staff room, and a playing sports area. There is no playing sports area at the moment. The paving is always in need of repair. Toilet facilities are inadequate for students and male staff. There are no covered ways, and staff and students are exposed to the elements. Asked to comment on the need for extra equipment, the school stated that there were inadequate duplicating facilities, no audio-visual equipment except projectors, no audio-visual department, inadequate slide projection material, and a lack of tape recorders and record players. 
The buildings are not properly maintained. The upper windows are never cleaned. There are broken Venetian blinds. The school generally is in such a rundown state that adequate maintenance is impossible. Concerning the staff-student ratio, 5 extra teachers would be needed to ensure that no class at the school exceeded 30, and 14 extra teachers would be needed to ensure that no class exceeded 25. In reply to another question it was stated that the physical conditions at the school made team teaching impossible. Seventyfive per cent of the school are migrants from a low socio-economic area. The school needs another 5 migrant English teachers and qualified remedial English and maths teachers. A number of other disabilities are detailed. The school was asked whether it was in any of the Schools Commission programs. The one 'yes' answer related to the disadvantaged program. It is stated that this has improved student morale in making more materials and more varied activities available and has improved teacher morale also. Another question asked: 
What would be the effects on your school if any of these programs were stopped? 
The answer is: 
Crippling. There would be no way we could hope to cope with severe and numerous problems of our high migrant population. 
This is a scathing condemnation of the inability of States to use the assistance given to them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
1 ) The House notes: 
that the firm of Patrick Partners carried on the business of stock and share brokers under that name, principally in Sydney and Melbourne; 
that the said firm had 12 partners, of whom Michael Ehrenfried Baume, now the Honourable Member for Macarthur, was one; 
that on 27 July 1975 11 members of the firm other than the Honourable Member signed an authority under sub-section 188 (1) of the  Bankruptcy Act  1966, as amended, authorising  Mr J.  H. Jamison, a registered trustee, to call a meeting of his creditors and to take over control of his property, and the authority became effective for the purposes of Part X of the Act on that day; 
that on 27 July 1975 the Honourable Member also signed an authority under sub-section 1 88 ( 1 ) of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 as amended authorising  Mr J.  H. Jamison, a registered trustee, to call a meeting of his creditors and to take over control of his property, and the authority became effective for the purposes of Part X of the Act on that day; 
that on 27 February 1976 deeds of arrangement with each of the 11 partners other than the Honourable Member were approved by special resolutions passed under paragraph 204 (1) (b) of the Bankruptcy Act at creditors meetings held on that date; 
that the deeds of arrangement were executed on 19 March 1976 in compliance with sub-section 216 (1) of the Bankruptcy Act; 
that all 1 1 deeds of arrangement provided in the recitals  (inter alia)  that: 

 Recital A. The Debtor was at all material times a partner of Patrick Partners, Stock and Share Brokers (hereinafter referred to as 'the Firm') who carried on business principally in Sydney and Melbourne. 

 Recital B. On the 27 July 1975, the members of the Firm consisted of the persons named in Part A of the First Schedule hereto. Michael Ehrenfried Baume (hereinafter referred to as  'Mr Baume')  was prior to 24 February 1975 a partner in the Firm and there is a dispute between  Mr Baume  and the Firm as to whether he was a partner thereof as at 27 July 1975.  Mr Baume  claims to be entitled to indemnities in respect of the debts and liabilities of the Firm from certain of the Partners and Former Partners of the Firm. 

 Recital C. On 27 July 1975, the Debtor, and the other members of the Firm (not including  Mr Baume)  signed an authority under Section 188 of the Act appointing the Trustee as his Controlling Trustee.  Mr Baume  also appointed the Trustee as his Attorney with powers limited to dealing with his interest (if any) in the Firm. 

 Recital F. The debtor is desirous of entering into this Deed of Arrangement in favour of his creditors in order to make arrangements for his affairs and secure payment of his debts in whole or in part to his said creditors on the terms and subject to the conditions herein-contained; 
that all 1 1 deeds of arrangement provided in clause 9 that: 
In consideration of  Mr Baume  completing an agreement to make arrangements for the satisfaction of the debt of $106,082 claimed to be due by him to the Firm (the amount so paid by  Mr Baume  being part of the amount referred to in Clause 3 (b) hereof and forms part of the funds available for distribution to the Joint Creditors hereunder) and in consideration of the payments to be made by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of this Deed, the Joint Creditors each covenant with the Trustee not, during the Currency of the Deed, to bring any action, suit or demand or take any steps to enforce payment by or against  Mr Baume  for any indebtedness in respect of which  Mr Baume  may be jointly or severally liable with the Debtor to any Joint Creditor and on the expiration of the Currency of the Deed the claims of all Joint Creditors (whether Participating Creditors or otherwise) against  Mr Baume  shall be deemed to be fully discharged and satisfied and shall thereupon be released and extinguished. The Trustee shall agree with  Mr Baume  to take such proceedings at the request and cost of  Mr Baume  and subject to such indemnities as the Trustee may determine to seek to restrain any Joint Creditor from bringing any action, suit or demand or taking any step to enforce payment against  Mr Baume  arising out of any indebtedness to a Joint Creditor in respect of which  Mr Baume  is jointly liable with the Debtor or to defend any such action, suit or demand so brought. The Trustee shall also agree with  Mr Baume  that the Trustee will not bring any action suit or demand or take any steps to enforce payment by  Mr Baume  for any indebtedness due jointly  or  severally by  Mr Baume  to the Debtor or the Firm or in respect of which  Mr Baume  is responsible to the Firm whilstever  Mr Baume  observes and performs the obligations on his part contained in the agreement entered into by him with the Trustee hereinbefore provided and upon the expiration of the Currency of the Deed all such claims and demands against  Mr Baume  shall be released and extinguished. If  Mr Baume  fails to complete the agreement with the Trustee as hereinbefore provided before the Commencement Date then this Clause shall not apply to  Mr Baume; 
that all 1 1 deeds of arrangement provided in clause 1  (inter alia)  that: 
In this Deed unless the context otherwise requires the following expressions shall have the meaning set opposite the same respectively:- 
The Commencement Date' means the date on which this deed is executed. 
Currency of the Deed' means the duration of the Deed is provided by Clause 14 hereof; 
that all 1 1 deeds of arrangement provided in clause 14 that: 
This Deed shall operate for a period of five (5) years from the Commencement Date; 
that the Honourable Member executed also on 19 March 1976 before any of the 1 1 deeds of arrangement were executed a deed as contemplated by the opening words of clause 9 hereinbefore referred to; 
that the Honourable Member has complied with the requirements of the relevant covenant in that deed; 
that in a judgement of 21 September 1976  Mr Justice  Riley of the Federal Court of Bankruptcy determined in the matter of Dowling and others: 
that on the evidence each of the deeds of arrangement was entered into in accordance with Part X of the Bankruptcy Act, complied with the requirements of that Part, and was duly executed by the debtor concerned and the Trustee; 
that pursuant to sub-section 233(1) of the Bankruptcy Act each deed was therefore "binding on all the creditors of the debtor"; 
that even though each of the 1 1 deeds related not only to the liabilities of the debtor who executed it but also those of the Honourable Member, it could validly contain provisions which refer to liabilities of a person other than the executing debtor; 
that a deed of arrangement may contain any reasonable provisions requisite to give effect to the purposes of the deed if they do not contravene those provisions of the Act made applicable to deeds under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act; 
that the effect of the provisions relating to the Honourable Member which the deeds contain is that $106,082 contributed by the Honourable Member may be available for distribution among the creditors that would not otherwise be available with the added advantage of the avoidance of litigation against the Honourable Member over his liabilities to creditors and by him over his entitlements to indemnity from his former partners; 
that there is nothig in these provisions that offends any provision of the Bankruptcy Act and each of the 1 1 deeds is valid and binding; 
that having regard to the circumstances of the execution of the deeds of arrangements the deed signed by the Honourable Member need only have been executed by him before the debtors executed their deeds of arrangement for clause 9 to apply and therefore as he did in fact execute his deed before the deeds of arrangement were executed creditors are bound by the deeds of arrangement and clause 9 of those deeds applies to the Honourable Member, 
that the injunctions sought by  Mr Jamison  the trustee of the deeds of arrangements pursuant to sub-section 30(1) of the Bankruptcy Act be granted restraining certain creditors from taking any step to enforce payment by the Honourable Member for a debt in respect of which the said creditors alleged the Honourable Member is liable and which was the subject of proceedings in the Supreme Court of New South Wales and the making of an order that the creditors be restrained from proceeding with the action; 
That the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia provides  (inter alia)  in Section 43 (ii) that if a member of the House of Representatives takes the benefit, whether by assignment, composition or otherwise, of any law relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors his place shall thereupon become vacant. 
The House therefore resolves that the question whether the place of the Honourable Member for Macarthur has become vacant pursuant to the provisions of Section 45 (ii) of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia be referred for determination of the Court of Disputed Returns pursuant to section 203 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
This matter is an involved one. It is not easy to present it to the House in such a concise way as to allow considered judgment by the House. You,  Sir, noted  the problems with the detail that was given with the notice of motion. This exemplifies some of the difficulties that occur. As far as I know, there are no fresh, startling revelations in this matter. All the factors germane to the matter are known. In this matter that I have raised the House is not being asked to determine the qualifications of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  Its attention is being drawn to section 45 (ii) of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia, which provides among other things, that if a member of the House of Representatives takes the benefit, whether by assignment, composition or otherwise, of any law relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors his place shall thereupon become vacant. The House is then being asked to take note that, from a variety of sources, it has been suggested that the honourable member for Macarthur has taken advantage of such an arrangement; so there is doubt as to his qualifications to sit. Following upon these 2 factors it is suggested that the House should facilitate the process of judicial determination of the matter rather than take it upon itself to determine it. 
The Commonwealth Electoral Act provides for the Court of Disputed Returns to deal with such matters. In a matter where precise legal interpretation is required it is preferable for the Court to do so rather than for the House to decide the matter on what would be seen by people outside the Parliament to be .party political grounds and so reduce the dignity of the Parliament itself. There are recent parallels in this course to be followed. The Senate in the case of  Senator Webster  wisely decided that, as the matter was one of legal interpretation, it should go to the Court. In that case the Court cleared  Senator Webster  of any doubt. Another case recently was the case in Victoria when the qualifications of Bunna Walsh to sit as a member of the Legislative Council were challenged on the basis of a conviction many years before in the children's court. In that the case  Mr Walsh  was disqualified. However, there was such revulsion about a children's court penalty being raised in this way that subsequent legislation has removed this as a cause of disqualification there. 
I cite those cases because they emphasise the desirability of the process of judicial inquiry being pursued. It is the duty of the courts to interpret the law. Our responsibility is to make the law. One cannot expect other people to have respect for the dignity of the membership of this House unless we accord it a high degree of dignity and respect. In saying this I am dealing with the latter part of the motion first. I have done this deliberately so that my request for action by the House is seen clearly. Having done that I must move to establish that doubt does exist with regard to the honourable member for Macarthur 's qualifications to sit in this House. The collapse of Patrick Partners is a matter of public notoriety. It has been the subject of much examination, discussion and even litigation. All sorts of issues have been raised, including dishonest actions by financial journalists, dumping of holdings at inflated prices and so on. But this is not the matter for discussion further today. 
In putting the reasons for doubt on a calm, reasoned basis I rest principally on, firstly, the report of an inspector appointed pursuant to the Securities Industry Act of the State of New South Wales to investigate and report on certain matters concerning Patrick Partners from 1 July 1974 to 6 August 1975, which was dated 21 
December 1976, which is known as the Masterman report and appropriate portions of which have already been tabled in this House; secondly, a judgment given by  Mr Justice  Sheppard in Meth and Co. (Australia) Pty Ltd and others v. the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney Ltd; thirdly, a judgment delivered by  Mr Justice  Riley on 1 April 1976 and found in Volume 10 of the Australian Law Reports at page 71; and, fourthly, a judgment handed down by  Mr Justice  Riley on 21 September 1976.  Sir, as  the latter judgment is not widely available, I seek leave to table a copy of the reasons for judgment. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I second the motion. As the matter raised by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil ) is so inaccurate  insofar as it is associated with me I believe it should be debated forthwith. 
Question put- 
That the motion  (Mr  Scholes's) be agreed to. 
-Allegations have been made that I have been party to the subversion of a public servant in his duties. Having read the Press, I gather that these allegations refer to an officer of the Attorney-General's Department. Let me say firstly, that as far as I know, I am not acquainted with any person working in the Attorney-General's Department, nor have I attempted to subvert either directly or indirectly any person working in that Department. Two matters are referred to in the Press. The first refers to questions asked in the House. With regard to questions on notice, honourable members can ascertain that I have placed one question on notice during this Parliament, and that that question arose directly out of a question asked of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  without notice. Further, if honourable members examine the questions without notice that I have asked, they will find that they are of a nature that certainly does not require any assistance from any public servant or other person, nor do they refer to material pertinent to the Attorney-General's Department. 
This leads to the second allegation, namely, that with regard to the drafting of a notice of motion referring to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  My interest in that honourable member and his role in Patrick Partners was mentioned by me in the AddressinReply debate. It had been a matter for discussion among members of the Australian Labor Party. I agreed to take further action to have it discussed in the House. A draft notice of motion was presented by members of staff working for the Parliamentary Labor Party. This was discussed by several members of the Parliamentary Labor Party and some minor alterations were made. The notice of motion referred to no confidential material; the matters noted in it were freely available to any person. That motion was subsequently moved in the House by me, when I addressed myself to it in my own words and in my own way. It was, as is recorded, defeated on party lines. So much for the despicable allegations against me. 
This matter does lead to a question now in the minds of honourable members and public servants. I now deplore the situation when public servants leak confidential information they obtain in their work, just as I did when members of the Government Parties, when in Opposition, used such material- for example, the leaks from Treasury by one individual under the alias of  Mr Williams,  and other matters which could be mentioned. Is a public servant allowed to have political opinions in his private life? Is he allowed to deal with political matters and writings in his private life? Or is he threatened by discipline if he departs in his private life from the government line? The Government should answer those questions. Perhaps this is a further step in the Public Service bashing it has carried out over the past 18 months. 
-Parliament is a place where usually we discuss matters as they affect people and the conditions under which people are living and which they enjoy. But of course in providing those conditions for people, society also has an effect on the flora and fauna in the world around us. I know that in the last couple of years, discussion of this sort of an aspect has become rather unpopular. One is probably going to be called a long-haired trendy intellectual or an eco-nut because one brings such a thing to the notice of Parliament. In my political career I have attracted many names and another one or two will not worry me. 
One of the matters about which I wish to talk to the House this afternoon is the question of whaling- a matter which has been the subject of real international controversy. Most of the popular outcry has been focused on the activities of the International Whaling Commission which sets voluntary quotas on what whales may be taken and in what numbers. Many honourable members will have received a spate of books, stickers and arguments with regard to this matter. There has been a recent unsuccessful attempt to have a moratorium on the hunting of whales to enable further information to be obtained. Man knows very little about this animal which we have ravaged so much during the last century. One can see scientific experts on the one side praising what the International Whaling Commission does and saying that it is sufficient to ensure the continuance of the species while others will use the same evidence to say how poorly the Commission is doing. But one thing is agreed upon by both groups and that is, that there is no doubt that there has been a devastating effect on the whale population in the past century because of altered hunting methods and soon. 
The world situation with regard to whales is that 1 1 species have been hunted- 10 baleen or whalebone whales which are filter-feeders, with baleen plates in place of teeth, and the sperm whale which is the largest toothed whale. Only 4 species of baleen whale- the fin, the sei, the Bryde's and the minke- and the sperm whale are currently being taken. The members of the International Whaling Commission come from nearly all of the nations which have whaled at one time or another. As I said, their task is to try to regulate the industry and provide for the conservation, development and optimum utilisation of the whale resources. In fact seven of the 16 members of that body at the moment do not whale. Along with scientists and conservationists, they are exerting pressure on those nations which do whale, particularly in this respect the Soviet Union and Japan which currently take some 85 per cent of the world catch. Whaling is important to Japan because in 1972 baleen whalemeat made up 9 per cent of the meat protein intake of the Japanese people. 
The quotas that the Commission sets are unenforceable. They are voluntary quotas and one knows that they are not enforced. Australia has taken the attitude that an agreement based on a species area concept will make any blanket moratorium redundant. The United States has taken the attitude of banning the importing of marine mammal products-and the whale is a marine mammal. Through these bans it is trying to exercise one control. There has also been research to find a substitute for sperm oil. One possibility is Jojoba which comes from a bean plant which grows wild in the arid regions of the United States. It is hoped that this will be on the market very shortly at a price cheaper than that for sperm oil. 
The Australian situation is that we have one whaling station at Cheynes Beach in Albany and sperm whales are taken there. Sperm oil is added to lubricants, for example, for automatic transmissions and machine tools, where it forms a bond with the metal. No economic substitute has been produced for this. Meal is prepared from the meat and is fed to pigs and poultry. It is not fed to humans. We take about 4 per cent of the whole world sperm whale catch, or 2 per cent of the total world catch. 
One of the unfortunate things is that, even if we were to stop whaling, that would not provide a solution as our quota would be allocated to other countries. The Department of Primary Industry issues the licences under the Whaling Act. The whaling station I mentioned is important to the local economy of the area where it exists. It employs 100 people and other ancillary things flow from it. There are suggestions that the sperm whale is not threatened, but we cannot assert that this is so because of our lack of knowledge. There has been no appropriate inquiry into this matter by any independent authority and one must express concern. Having raised this matter briefly for the attention of honourable members I should like to suggest that it might be appropriate if this matter were transferred to the authority of the Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development rather than have it remain with the Department of Primary Industry. Over the years agriculturalists have not shown themselves to be good environmentalists. I believe that we would be better served by the Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development handling this matter. I believe that Department should not only watch what is happening locally but also should handle the matter at the international level. Through the Department Australia should take international action at least to ensure enforcement of quotas by applying the same sort of sanctions in many ways as the United States of America does. I think we should work more actively for a moratorium on whaling so that further research can be carried out. If we ban whaling in Australia we should give consideration to the economics of the area where our one whaling station is. Perhaps this is a minor matter in the great issues we have before us but I believe it is one to which we should pay some attention. 
-Before making my remarks I should like to comment that while there was much in the early part of the speech of the honourable member for Clare  (Mr MacKenzie)  with which I disagreed, I compliment him on his remarks during the closing stages of his speech when he discussed the rationalisation of much of the very expensive and complicated equipment that can be duplicated in some of the post-secondary institutions and our need, responsibly, at both Federal and State level to look at this matter. I also support his plea for the breakdown of the dividing lines between those sections of post-secondary education. I think that that area has a good deal of common cause. 
To turn to the matter under discussion, as has been indicated by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  this supplementation principle which these 4 Bills carry out was an initiative taken by the Labor Governmentand I think quite an appropriate one. We are glad that the present Government is carrying on with this principle. I think that having indicated that, we do not necessarily need to analyse just what is happening with that supplementation. What I am concerned about is the difference in attitude to education between the previous Labor Government and the present Federal Government. The Labor Government took the initiative in regard to the major commissionsthe Schools Commission and so on- and asked them to report on the basis of needs of the community. When they had delineated those needs- those needs were very substantial indeed because of previous neglect- the Government decided as a political decision, just how much finance could be brought forward to satisfy those needs. It was a politically responsible act to allow the Commissions to spell out the needs and then say how far the Government was prepared to go in trying to satisfy those needs. This contrasts rather markedly with the actions of the present Government. The present Government gives the Commissions guidelines within which to report on what should be done for the various aspects of education, what programs there should be and so on. This inhibits in many ways the ability of the Commissions to report on the real needs. 
I shall refer only briefly to the Technical and Further Education Commission report where, under the guidelines that have been put forward, the Commission has very courageously registered its protest at this sort of attitude being taken, instead of it being allowed to report on the needs and letting the Government take the responsibility for saying what it would responsibly see as the expenditure to satisfy those needs. One can respect an attitude, if needs are reported and a political decision is made as to the amount that will be made available deliberately to satisfy a certain area of those needs. 
My colleague has mentioned already the confusion that is being caused by the new federalism. The honourable member who preceded me in this debate, the honourable member for Calare, said that he thought that the States should put in more money and so on. The attitude taken by this Government under the new federalism is that it gives adequate finance to the States to carry out the various processes that the 
States should carry out. In my own State of Victoria I see State Liberal and Country Party members of Parliament trying to get themselves in sweet with local parents and teachers by saying that of course the Federal Government should supply more money and that there should be a special grant. In other words, at the Federal level one can use the excuse that the States will not accept responsibility and that the Commonwealth Government gives them enough money. The colleagues of honourable members opposite are seeking election and re-election at the State level on the grounds that they will try for special grants from the Commonwealth Government. What arrant hypocrisy! It is an unsympathetic attitude to the needs of people. We are told that the Government has a commitment to education. The situation is such, as has been shown by the Commission reports, that what is needed is not only commitment, but also the ability to expand the involvement and satisfy the needs. 
Previous debates on education during this session have allowed some discussion of technical and further education. I wish now to turn my remarks to perhaps a rather more parochial attitude to education in the primary and secondary fields and to express to the House the sorts of concerns that parent and teachers are expressing publicly so that their fears can be analysed and either proved or allayed. Honourable members will recall that in April there were meetings throughout Australia in regard to education. The expression of opinion, which I suppose is rather regimented in that it is prepared before the meeting, was unanimously supported. The expression of opinion went something along these lines: 
This mass rally of parent and teacher delegates elected from across Victoria calls on the Federal Government to provide sufficient funds to achieve minimum standards in schools and TAFE institutions by the end of the decade as advocated by the Schools and TAFE Commissions in their reports of June 1975. 
Of course one knows that the Federal Government has put the screen of State governments in between. It goes on: 
This will require the Federal Government to: 
. stop irresponsible talk of Budget cuts in education. 
reject any suggestion of the simple maintenance of existing standards which, in many areas, are demonstrably poor. 
It will be to those standards that I shall address my remarks shortly and give some examples. The resolution continues: 
immediately supply States with funds for 1 977 that are equal to the recommendations of the June 1975 Schools Commission Report. 
For Victoria that involves an additional $15m for recurrent expenditure, $2 7m for capital works and $6m for special purposes- a total of $48min 1974 prices. 
convert  Senator Carrick's  vague promises for TAFE into dollar figures at least equal to the recommendations of the June 1975 TAFE Report. 
provide Government guidelines which reinstate the triennium and request Commissions to produce reports in 1977 for a 1978-80 triennium designed to achieve the minimum standards originally advocated by the Commissions for the end of the decade. 
The Labor Government in its last year of office was forced to suspend triennial funding for the good reason of having a look at how it could go ahead. We are told that this policy has been substituted by a much better system of the rolling triennium. People concerned with education find the so-called rolling triennium a difficult animal indeed to understand. A rolling triennium has no meaning. It gives no real ability for proper planning ahead to allow for time lags to make up the deficiencies in need. It is a strange animal indeed. I urge that the ordinary triennial planning be returned. The last item in the resolution concerns leaving untampered the independence of the Schools and TAFE commissions. We know that the TAFE Commission is to disappear into the Tertiary Education Commission. I was pleased that the people gathered together at this meeting recognised also that there was some State responsibility in this matter, but that State Governments were not necessarily the best to satisfy the needs that were revealed. The resolution states: 
Finally, this rally calls on the Victorian Premier and Minister of Education to make known publicly the educational needs and funding requirements of this State, and energetically to place constant pressure on the Federal Government to provide in full those funds recommended by the Schools and TAFE Commissions. 
Perhaps in that last sentence the rally showed the inability that many Liberal State politicians show to recognise what the new federalism is about. What sort of leeways are we trying to make up in many of these areas? If we look at the high schools in Victoria we learn that less than half of them have a Commonwealth library or even one in the course of construction. This means that students in these high schools in Victoria have library facilities below Commonwealth standards. Honourable members will recall that with the previous Commonwealth involvement in education almost every student attending Victorian private schools enjoyed such facilities provided by Commonwealth funds. If one looks at the various regions of Victoria one finds that in Gippsland only four of the 2 1 high schools have a Commonwealth library whilst every non-government secondary school has this facility. What happens if there is not a Commonwealth library in a school? The alternative is that the library will be in a classroom or classrooms, which is unsatisfactory in terms of the floor or shelf space available. There is no provision for individual study areas or audio visual facilities. In such circumstances there is no area for proper staff work and so on. So we see in that library area of high schools alone that the need is so great that one cannot have a commitment just to continue the present level of funding, that we must look at expansion. 
The same might be said about science blocks. Despite the science block program that originated in the early 1960s, 30 State high schools in Victoria are still without the facility of a science block. In many countries overseas about the first item that is built in a school complex is the gymnasium-assembly hall area. Yet here in Australia we find- I am using Victoria again in the parochial sense- two-thirds of Victorian high schools do not have a gymnasium, nor do they have an assembly hall, a very basic area for the operation of a secondary education institution. 
-Two-thirds of Victorian high schools. I inform the honourable member for Holt, who was a distinguished teacher at Brighton Grammar School, that this information is supplied by the Victorian High School Principals Association. I think he would accept the authority of those figures. One of the other problems because of the schemes that have existed in the past is that many of the schools carry burdensome loans and interest repayments. One knows what happens in this situation. Plenty of government services suffer from the same thing. But when working parents in working class areas are involved the problem becomes so much more difficult. I turn to staff accommodation in the schools. When one looks at the staff rooms of many high schools, with desks placed back to back, and looks also at the areas for preparation, one cannot believe that the staff can function adequately in that area. That is the general picture. I could go on to highlight a number of other areas in the government school system in Victoria where there are deficiencies- lack of rooms for specialist subjects, facilities for the students and funds for school maintenance work and minor capital works. There are just so many deficiencies. I think this fortifies what I said before, that our commissions must be able to identify the needs and to highlight those needs. Then a political decision has to be made as to how much of those needs are to be satisfied. At least that is a more honest way of allowing people to judge how the system is operated. 
In referring to just a couple of specific instances to show what can occur, I refer to Bell Primary School in my electorate, a school which until the Commission programs was seen by many parents as undesirable. It had a source of pupils from a population with a high degree of poverty. I am trying to find the right words to express the situation without downgrading the excellent residents of that sort of area- persons who are underprivileged because of lack of understanding through migrant origin, lack of opportunity, lack of economic means, single parent families, latch-key children, people fromousing commission areas and so on. Special facilities are needed in those schools. This particular school took part in the disadvantaged program, the innovations program and the inservice education program of the Schools Commission. The innovations program is now finished. 
The comment from the school with regard to participation in these programs is that they had a tremendous effect in terms of children, staff and parents and that if any of the programs were stopped that would have a tremendous effect also. This is from a school that still suffers from a lack of at least 3 migrant teachers and a teaching aide, a school where a large minority of pupils do not receive either adequate medical or dental attention, and where there is need for maintenance of the school buildings themselves. The comment is made that cyclic maintenance is long overdue; that there is no record of it having been done in the last 10 years; and that the school was expecting cyclic maintenance to be done in 1969-70, but because of the structure of the State cyclic maintenance program it is not even listed. There are many factors about that school that I could exemplify. If one talks to the people at the school one finds that they refer to the great advance that has been made by those 3 programs put forward by the Schools Commission in just the last few years, but they have grave fears that unless the needs can be continually identified the school will lapse back into the old condition. Inherent in this matter is the criticism of the new federalism and the inability of the State governments to react in meeting the needs of schools and the failure of the Federal Government to understand the barriers it is putting up. 
I intended to deal with another of the local schools- a high school- where much the same sort of comment can apply, but I will not. At the moment there is in the community a grave concern about the future financing of education and a grave concern that the new federalism lets Federal government off the hook and in turn is used by State governments to get off the hook. The new federalism sets guidelines for commissions which inhibit them in their attitude to needs, and governments, at both the State level and the Federal level, do not have the guts to make what are political decisions but try to bide behind this smokescreen. 
-I ask the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development: Have officers of his Department had discussions with appropriate State officials with a view to the cessation or lessening of Australian Government involvement in environmental protection? If so, what measures are being taken to ensure that the States adopt minimum standards for environmental protection and what are these minimum standards? 
-The honourable member is allowed to make some passing reference, but seeing that that passing reference has now lasted 3 minutes, I invite him to return to the Bill. 
Has the Minister for Health been informed of any attempt by Medibank Private to supply dental, optical or other paramedical benefits as do other private health funds? If not, why is Medibank Private disadvantaged in this way in its competition with other funds? Why has no action been taken to supply such services to those who contribute to Medibank through the levy? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 matters? 
-by leave-Before making my comments, I wonder whether the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  will consider moving a motion that the House take note of the report. This is no criticism of the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Expenditure but it has occurred to me that the Committee was set up substantially to oversight expenditure by the Public Service and the Executive. It has been ordered that the report be printed but without such a motion the House will not be given the opportunity to examine and debate the recommendations in the report, if it should so desire. I offer that comment. I will not refer to the specific recommendations because the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  has already done so. Incidentally, the incorrect recommendation was No. 19, and I think honourable members will understand, when reading the mass of words, how easy it is to transpose terms. 
The Committee is trying to design methods to examine expenditure, and a lot of the exercise, which involved tedious, painstaking work, related to the designing of methods and trying to adopt an objective approach. I think that members of the sub-committee will agree that some subjects do not allow total objectivity, and this field is one of them. Such things as deciding whether cuts in staff allow satisfactory service when there are different assessments of satisfactory service become subjective matters. There is also the political sensitivity of certain geographical areas, as well as certain areas of government policy. This morning a report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Middle East was presented. If I heard correctly, the Committee recommended an increase in overseas representation, obviously on quite valid grounds. Some of the reasons for our overseas representation may not be related to a direct return to Australia. They may be political reasons or involve the question of the status overseas which Australia wants to maintain. They may be related to a show of strength in terms of numbers to preserve good relationships. One of the recommendations in the report related to postings overseas of Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation representatives, and here we had some difficulty. 
It would seem that their functions could be carried out by short visits, but it may be that Australia's international scientific status would be affected by their withdrawal. Once again, we have the question of a subjective assessment. 
In addition to the plea that, we adopt a routine for such reports from the Expenditure Committeewe have a motion that the House take note of the report- we should ensure that the House has the opportunity to debate a report which it wants to debate. The experience of the Committee in conducting its inquiries illustrates once again the inadequacy of the arrangements of the committee system of the House in regard to the way in which the committees are organised and the opportunities available for sittings of committees. I make that point in order to urge the Government to give serious consideration to allowing a parliamentary debate on the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System so that the functioning of the committee system may be brought into line with what is necessary modern practice. In that way, committees such as the Expenditure Committee, which involves quite a large amount of time, would be able to deal with their reports more effectively. 
-This is the first time that I have entered the uranium debate, although that has not been due to any lack of attention or study on my part. I think that my interest in matters of environment and conservation is well known to members of the House. I have been rather reticent to enter the debate as a matter of conscience. I am one of those people who believe that the resource should be left in the ground until adequate safeguards are available. So far, despite all the reports and statements, I do not believe that those safeguards are available. I think it is fair to say that I am essentially a party loyalist. I support my Party's policies because I believe they represent the greatest hope for Australians to develop that way of life to which they are entitled. But on uranium the Party's policy, although restrictive, is still equivocal. I would not want honourable members to get the idea that although I am in quite a deal of agreement with the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  on this matter I am likely to be a Labor Party  Mr Chipp.  I am not, and for the reason that I believe other aspects come into the issue. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  commented earlier that the debate was about the mining of uranium and not energy production through power plants, weapons etc. Of course, that is quite wrong. As a supplier of the raw material, we must give full consideration to what flows from it- from the raw material to the initial energy production, through the power plant; from the raw material to nuclear weapons; from the initial energy production procedure to the other forms of energy production available; or from the energy production to the use of the material left from that and once more to nuclear weapons. Finally, we must consider the problems that occur with the disposal of the waste from these processes. If anyone has any doubt about the importance of the supply of the raw material, I refer them to today's Sydney  Sun.  In the world news section there appears a heading Australia's Key Nuclear Role'. The article states: 
Australia will be closely associated with important discussions leading up to the international nuclear fuel evaluation program proposed by America 's President Carter. 
The article referred to the preliminary study which has been agreed on by Great Britain, the United States, France, West Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada. While Australia will not actually join the exclusive world nuclear club, it will be fully and closely involved.  Mr Wedgwood  Benn has expressed considerable interest in Australia's announced nuclear safeguards policy, and the article indicated that there was complete agreement that such nuclear safeguards needed to be secure and absolute. This matter is relevant to the visit to England of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at this moment. In expressing my concern that leads me to refer to the  Manchester Guardian  of 28 May 1977. It is not only the people here who worry about the long process. That article states: 
The Government yesterday delighted environmentalists and exasperated supporters of nuclear power by announcing that Britain will not build a plutonium-burning fast breeder reactor until a full public inquiry on the project has been held. 
One of the matters of particular concern about which the article comments is the long radioactive life of the nuclear waste left after the plutonium has been burned in the reactor and the dangers to a free democratic society posed by the substantial presence of plutonium, which is also the raw material for nuclear weapons. If there are absolute and secure safeguards and they still have to have inquiries like that in a country where nuclear power has been used for some time, further doubts must surely arise in our minds. One can see why we have a concern for these safeguards. 
Other matters were raised during this debate by other honourable members on which I think I should comment. I was disturbed to hear most honourable members use the term 'environmentalist' in a rather sneering way. It is unfortunate that the word 'environmentalist' is supposed to represent only an extreme group. Indeed, all of us who are interested in these matters, all of us who accept responsibility, must accept that over the years there have been great depradations of the world in which we live through lack of attention to these matters. One should not accuse individuals because they show some consciousness of the necessity for community concern in these areas. They should not be rubbished and derided because of it. 
The other matter which interested me was that at least one honourable member believed that anyone who opposed the mining of uranium was a 'Com'. I do not know how he came to that conclusion. Anyone who looks at the environmental problems of society today realises that the attitudes on environment of the active capitalist and the active communist coincide, with equally bad results for their communities. In the industry of the capitalist society the profit motive means that the environmental factors are probably amongst the last to receive consideration. They are expensive and they are seen as disposable. In the communist system, of course, the productivity target which industry has to meet is the important thing and the easiest thing to disregard is the environment. I think that that sort of cheap name calling directed at those who take a serious attitude on the question of the environment is unfortunate. 
I have been distressed also by the attitude of some honourable members who say that other countries which have uranium as a resource are going to mine it and supply it and therefore we should do the same. Their approval is: 'If you can't lick 'em, join 'em'. I suppose that the same gentlemen who take that approach would indicate to any young man that if he were in a situation of pack rape he should not worry about his moral and legal obligations but should just go along with it. I reject that sort of argument as a reason why Australia should be involved in the supply of uranium. 
I do not argue with the proposition describing the enormous economic benefit which would accrue to Australia through the mining of uranium. It is not only an economic benefit which flows from the sale of the raw material. Recent media reports would lead us to believe, following the visits overseas of various Government Ministers, particularly the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  that a certain amount of international blackmail is going on in other areas of trade. By that I mean that if we will mine and supply uranium we will also get markets in other areas. I think that the arguments have been put almost as bluntly as that. 
As well as these economic questions there are . moral questions. The claim has been made that the largesse from uranium mining would allow Australia to do so much more for our inhabitants in the way of social service benefits and so on. But would social security beneficiaries want to receive increased benefits at the cost of death and injury to people elsewhere on the globe? Would children want to receive adequate education at the expense of damage to future generations? We are also told that by depriving the world of uranium we are depriving needy and developing countries of a ready source of energy. My answer to that is that the developed countries are already doing this by their wasteful and profligate use of fossil fuels. We talk about international safeguards, but can these be enforced? Earlier today the honourable member for Hotham mentioned how so many of these problems could be got around. Let me quote from  Time  magazine of 30 May this year what was stated in an article about a frightening case. It is headed: 'Uranium: The Israeli connection', and states: 
In the foggy dawn of 17 November 1968, the Germanbuilt freighter  Scheersberg  chugged out of Antwerp harbor with a Liberian flag flying from its mast and S60 drums of yellowcake' packed beneath its decks. The ship never reached its declared destination of Genoa, Italy. Instead, after IS days at sea it docked at the Turkish port of  Iskenderun  on 2 December, riding high in the water. Its strategic cargo- 200 tons of uranium, worth $3. 7m, that could potentially be used for nuclear weapons- had vanished. The disappearance of the uranium was first disclosed last month by Paul Leventhal, a former counsel to the Senate Committee on Government Operations, at a conference in Salzburg. . . . Who had the uranium? And how did they get it? 
After several weeks of investigation by correspondents from  Time  it has been alleged that the whole thing was a complex plot conducted by Israeli intelligence agents. The purpose was to disguise a secret Israeli purchase of much needed uranium for its French built nuclear reactor. Much more detail is supplied in the article. It is suggested that assurances were given by the West German Government to  allow  the purchase to be disguised and that Israel promised West Germany access to its advanced uranium separation process that can be used to produce nuclear weapons. I think that honourable members ought to read this article because it is quite frightening. It has its humorous aspects in some ways. The cover purchaser of this uranium was a Casablanca pharmaceutical supply company named Chimagar. It had never bought uranium before. It was a firm which specialised in processing seaweed. Indeed, it really was not a good cover as Morocco is not a member of the European Economic Community and no nuclear material can be shipped outside the Community without a special permit. That is the sort of thing that can occur even with the present safeguards and controls. I think that it should be quite alarming to us. 
Comment has been made of the likelihood of damage from nuclear power plants. I wish to quote from an information paper entitled  Third Party Liability for Nuclear Damage  issued by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Paragraph 12 on page 4 states: 
The safety record of the nuclear industry has so far been excellent. For example, in 20 years or so of operating nuclear reactors in the United States, there have been no third party claims arising from the operation of commercial plants. Nevertheless, the theoretical studies discussed above indicate a remote possibility of a very costly accident and this is the underlying assumption providing the basis for nuclear liability legislation. 
That is the frightening thing. In this area it requires only one incident to produce frightening results. The nature of the debate has not allowed me to refer to either of the Ranger environmental inquiry reports as we had hoped. But I am concerned that the initial recommendations of that public debate have not been fully covered. The Minister for Environment Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  in response to questions I asked indicated that the Government's monitoring of the public debate has been conducted by at least one official. But one official cannot monitor the reports in all the newspapers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the three measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I call the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
It is hard to follow the euphoria of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  who has just spoken and who claims that the people of the Australian Capital Territory and of Canberra are now standing on their own two feet. If he looked around he would find that this Government, in a very short space of time, had beaten them to their knees and reduced the opportunity they had. For example, they face increased school fees for kids and fees have been put up on all sorts of things for the Territory which was once a showplace for the rest of the nation. But I am not going to speak on that matter. I want to follow some of the matters raised by my colleague the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  Before doing so there is another matter which interests both of us as it concerns the area we represent. Recently I was shocked to be informed by two migrants that their applications for Australian citizenship had been rejected on the basis of their lack of proficiency in the English language. There was just one statement. No attempt was made to follow up or to ascertain the factors, if any, as to why they were not proficient. I have some doubts about the situation. It indicates an inadequacy in our efforts to integrate our migrants into this country. 
I would like to know whether the English test is applied to all who make application for citizenship. I would like to know whether the nature of the test is the same for all applicants. I would like to know how many people have been rejected under this test. To me, it smacks of the same methods which were used in my youth to prevent people entering Australia. Then, it was possible to give dictation tests in Swahili or some such exotic language in order to refuse admission. It sees to me that with these standards in English for citizenship there should be some examination and follow up. If applicants are told that they are unsatisfactory then we should ask: Where have we as a nation failed because in seven or eight years these people have not become proficient in the language? If we follow the situation through we find that even the children of these people have problems in gaining a proper use of the English language. At a school in my electorate 593 children come from migrant parents. There is one migrant English teacher to assist them to gain a full knowledge of the use of the language of their adopted country. 
One can take this situation through to so many other schools in my area and those of honourable members surrounding it. Primary schools have up to 73 per cent of their school population coming from migrant families and often English is not widely spoken in the home. Yet there are no facilities for migrant English teachers or there is a grave deficiency. As I have pointed out, in one school there is one migrant Englishteacher for the S93 kids who need help. Of course, the trouble is that that one teacher has to spend her time with the few students who have no English at all. The bulk of the students who need some assistance simply have to do without. 
I return to the matter raised by the honourable member for Burke. We have heard from this Government about new federalism, about how we hand finance over to the States and there is no question of accountability because one does not have to worry about the performance of the States. It is suggested that in a conservative State like Victoria there is no need to examine the situation as it is so efficient. This is said about a State where corrupt land deals have been revealed in the past few weeks- a State which was unable to make matching grants for the Albury-Wodonga development. Another feature which might be looked at was mentioned by my colleague and that is the land deal at Sunbury. He mentioned a firm called Lensworth Finance which was involved. That is a South Australian firm. Land development in South Australia has been done in such a way by the Australian Labor Party Government by its land commission purchasing land, developing it and releasing it at a price so that those who speculate in land cannot make a rich return. So the South Australian company transferred itself to Victoria. What happened? I think the facts are pretty clear. I think the first offer for land was made on about 6 July 1973. Then, 20 days later, that South Australian firm by coming to Victoria was able to make a cool $1.5m on an option to purchase and there is severe doubt whether that contract really existed. 
One wonders how far this matter can go. At that time plenty of land was available in Victoria in as close proximity to the centre of Melbourne as that area, for $1,800 an acre. Yet it was necessary for the Victorian Government to pay $3,400 an acre. As my colleague has said, this Government criticised the Whitlam Government for its expenditure. The Whitlam Government realised the defects in housing. It realised that 1 8 000 people in Victoria were on the waiting list for welfare housing. It realised that the length of waiting time was five years. It tried to give money to the State to carry out a responsible program. But this is the sort of response one gets. In mid- 1973 the Government in Victoria took a non-co-operative attitude. It went on a spending spree, paying excessive prices for land thus giving large profits to enterpreneurs without regard to the real needs of how land could be provided for those people requiring housing. This is a very sorry story. It applies not only to Sunbury but also to Melton and Pakenham and other areas. 
This matter was raised in 1973 by the Press and by the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament. They asked that the matter be examined. But what happened? The Minister who was in charge of housing at that time refused an inquiry. When fresh efforts are being made to have an inquiry now that Minister holds a legal ministerial position which requires him to authorise the inquiry, he refuses. Yet the Minister of Housing in Victoria was compelled to say that at this stage, after deferring an inquiry for nearly four years, a police inquiry was unavoidable and desirable. One wonders how the new federalism will work when there are Ministers such as those I have mentioned who not only refuse to hold inquiries into allegations made against them when they held previous portfolios but who also, when an inquiry is announced, refuse to resign and to withdraw from their ministerial responsibilities whilst those inquiries are made into their involvement. 
This is the sort of thing that one can expect from conservative governments. It follows the line of action in Victoria over a long period of years. Ministerial responsibility has gone by the board. Ministers for transport who held interests in companies manufacturing automatic drink vending machines made sure that water taps disappeared from railway stations. There have been land scandals concerning the purchase of land for schools. This is something that a Federal Government, which is talking about giving the States responsibility, should realise. It should realise that the efforts of the Whitlam Labor Government to provide housing were sabotaged by conservatives in the States. The present Federal Government is now saying that these same governments have the responsibility to expend the funds. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I intervene in the general Budget debate because I will be absent from this Parliament on parliamentary business for some time and hence I will not have the opportunity to discuss during the Estimates debate some of those areas of government expenditure which have been so slashed. One of the things that concern me in looking at the Budget is the confusion that the wording of the Budget Speech can cause in the mind of the ordinary member of the community. I believe that one reform we could make- it is not a partisan reform- could be to pay some attention to the way in which the Budget is presented so that its true meaning can be clearly seen and appreciated by the ordinary individual. I was interested to read and hear the comment of so much of the media because it varied for the first few days after the Budget was presented. Even those people who are trained to try to analyse budgets were obviously confused about its true meaning. 
The confusion is understandable when one looks at the dreadful sort of . :----- -.- , that is creeping into everyday usuage. I suppose the word 'jargonese' is one such term itself and I accept that that may be the case. When one looks at page 6 of the Budget Speech one sees the words: 
This will permit an expansion in the broadly defined money supply to take place in 1 977-78 at a rate a notch or so lower than in the previous year. 
A little later the following paragraphs appear: 
We have been mindful, however, of the short-term dislocations that might have followed any appreciable reduction in real outlays at this time. 
It is a measure of the painstaking preparation undertaken this year that we have been able to shape the Budget firmly within the parameters of our economic strategy, while accommodating the cost of both last year's and this year's major tax reductions.. 

 Sir, what nonsense when one tries to reduce it to ordinary plain language. 
I cannot understand it because none of those terms are clearly defined in precise understandable language. They are general terms of the worst sort of nonsensical nature. I make a plea that as a parliament we should give some consideration as to how we treat those people we represent in presenting clearly what is being carried on in this place. 
This is not a Lynch Budget- it is clearly a Fraser Budget. It is clearly a Budget which has as its basis a return to a class society and a return to privileges for certain groups. It is something that serves as a basis to fit in with the sort of industrial confrontation that was presaged in legislation before the end of last session of Parliament and as recently as last week. I do not think anyone is fooled about the true source of this Budget. I think one of the clearest expositions and analyses of the Budget was given last night by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Even though he was somewhat husky voiced he was able to define those points at which we should look. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has followed his Budget by attacks on the conciliation and arbitration system which Australia has had for so many years and which is used to try to prevent industrial disputes and to determine what the level of wages should be. One remembers that on other occasions when the industrial movement complained of decisions it was told: 'You should obey the umpire'. 
There is obviously an attack on indexation by  Mr Lynch  and the Government. One wonders how much further the Government wants to see the Commission wind down its attitude to this matter. How would it preserve its credibility if it made such decisions under such obvious pressure? From time to time the Commission refers to the fact that in wage decisions it has to consider that part of its operations which instruct it to prevent industrial disputes. Unless it pays due regard to these sorts of matters it will only worsen those disputes. 
One turns to the so-called tax benefits in this Budget. There have been so many versions of this matter at variance with the benefits which the Treasurer alleged were in the Budget that one starts to smell a rat. It appears that the apparent benefit is nowhere near as large as the Treasurer stated. I understand that the figures which he gave compare the tax savings on the 1976-77 rate of taxation when a more accurate measure of the change would have been to compare it with the index rate for the 1 977-78 year. I appreciate that under this scheme the figures go something like this: On a salary of $8,000 the saving per week at the 1976-77 rate is $4.30. To use the more honest comparison of the 1977-78 rate index, the saving per week is 70c. On a salary of $ 10,000 the relevant figures are $4.79 and, on the 1977-78 rate, $1.18. It is only when one gets into the higher brackets such as $30,000 that one sees the difference between $39.83 and $24.98. A substantial change is taking place. 
Let us take that against the flow-on of price increases which have occurred because of" the changed attitude to fuel oil. There will be price changes not only in the use of the fuel but also changes will flow through to all industries which the oil price affects. Any tax advantage is very small indeed. Another matter concerns how we see Australia's recovery from this situation. A very gloomy picture was still painted about the rate of inflation and unemployment. The present Government, when in Opposition and speaking of Australia's inflation and unemployment, was never prepared to accept that there was an international element to the degree of inflation and unemployment. However, probably the one hope of the Government is that the low recovery being shown in the United States of America will be reflected through the other major countries and so assist Australia. 
If one looks at the situation in other countries it is rather interesting to see what is occurring. Certainly, in the United States, the inflation rate is flattening out, if anything, somewhere over 5 per cent. The unemployment rate is falling towards 5 per cent after having peaked at almot 9 per cent in 1975. Canada shows a much more favourable position and so do many of the other developed countries. Australia shows an inflation rate which dropped to just over 10 per cent and which is now predicted to rise to the 1 1 per cent to 12 per cent range. Its unemployment rate is still on the rise after having hit almost 6 per cent. I always accepted that there was this major international factor in Australia's problems. Perhaps the Government is wishing that it had paid some notice to that situation. 
We were told in 1975 by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that he needed three full years to get the economy back into gear. One cannot help but feel that these controversial tax changes which give so little real benefit to the ordinary people in the community will further dampen any possibility of economic recovery and are possibly there with an eye to an early election. The nature of the Budget seems to be one way of making the poor worse off and the rich better off. This is quite a change from what normally occurs in Australia. There has been a tendency towards the development of a less class conscious society. This Budget is once more placing an emphasis on the class division. This is exacerbated by a target being made of various industrial organisations through legislation in this House. One wonders why the Public Service should come under pressure. One wonders at the complete absurdity of some of the legislation when it is applied to skilled persons. If skilled persons who are in short supply withdraw their labour, no amount of compulsion can produce other people skilled in carrying out that duty. The oft quoted example has been the air traffic controllers. It has been said that in the United States the air traffic controllers are not allowed to strike. Of course they are not allowed to strike, but their conditions are twice as good as those enjoyed by the air traffic controllers in Australia. At least they have rest periods for meals. At least they have a surplus of controllers to take over during gaps or to make up for deficiencies caused by illness and so on. Certainly they are much better paid. 
In an electorate like mine, which is a fairly average working class electorate, this Budget will give no tax relief. It will do nothing to improve the high rate of unemployment in the area, even though local bodies such as our city council would prefer to see the citizens employed in something like the Regional Employment Development scheme. So much productive and useful work could be done in that area in the public sector rather than having people paid out in social welfare benefits. Of course, there is also a social cost to all that. There is the deadly effect of the individual, particularly the school leaver, not being able to get employment. The school leaver is hit with an atmosphere of hopelessness at home, at school, and when he leaves school and tries to find employment. A lot was said in this Budget about the youth programs. I have not seen much benefit for the young people in my community from these programs, although we have co-operated in trying to set them up. The fact is that the programs do not properly train the young people nor do they do anything about supplying job opportunities. 
Coming to the field of education, there is no doubt that, considering the rate of inflation, there has been a cut in real terms- that seems to be the fashionable jargon phrase to use- in the amount allocated for education. Unfortunately, this has happened at a time when, due to the lack of programs and the lack of stimulus for employment opportunities, many more children will be staying longer at school or going on to tertiary institutions. There has been a real cut in the amount of money that will be made available, and it is no wonder that those persons concerned with education are complaining strenuously. A further factor has been the redistribution in recurrent expenditure as between the nongovernment schools and the government schools at a time when some real progress was being made and problems caused by lack of social opportunity and the difficulties of migrant children in relation to languages were being corrected. Because of the expenditure cuts, programs which have allowed under-privileged schools to develop systems appropriate to their needs can no longer be carried out. 
In the field of welfare housing, in Victoria there are waiting lists of 1 8,000 people who have to wait four or five years for such housing. What is the social cost of that situation? What hope is there in the Budget for any change? The Budget is said to have redistributed money, to have put more money into people's pockets in order to stimulate the recovery of the economy. But when it is analysed, this Budget has done nothing real in that regard. It has redistributed the money from those in the lower income group to those in the higher income group. We have a conservative Government with a massive majority. It has said that the hallmark of the genuine conservative government is the stability of the country. I have no doubt that this conservative Government is most cynically using this Budget and other measures further to divide the Australian community, leading to a great many more problems in the end. That is not conservatism, it is a radical philosophy of the worst type. 
I address my question to the Minister for the Northern Territory. How much of the staff cut of 3,000 positions which the Budget predicts in the Australian Public Service is to occur in the Northern Territory? Will any of the persons affected be transferred to the Northern Territory Public Service or will numbers there also be cut? Are staff shortages in the Australian Public Service affecting the services provided by his Department and others operating in the Northern Territory such as the Department of Health and the Department of Social Security? 
I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will recall that on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news yesterday morning the Minister asserted that there was no danger to the public from the excessive levels of iodine found by the National Health and Medical Research Council in New South Wales milk supplies. On what information and advice did the Minister base his assertion that mothers, housewives and others should not be concerned about this report? Is the average level of iodine found by the National Health and Medical Research Council the highest found anywhere in the world? Did the Minister consult his colleague, the Minister for Health, before making this statement? And what steps are being taken to correct the problem?  
-I join my colleague the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in his criticism of the Government's role in its relative rundown of expenditure on education and its attitude towards the education commissions. I think it a great cause for regret that the Government's actions have caused a stifling of the debate on the quality of education which had been growing in the Australian community. The Government seems to have removed stimulus and to have placed the dead hand on the aspirations of all those people who are concerned with education and who have shown some interest in it. 
Previously I have expressed concern at the relative rundown in expenditure and spoken of its effects on the schools in the Scullin electorate. I have looked at the proposed boundaries for the new electorate of Scullin and certainly the problems I have outlined will be worse in some of the new areas. But it is not my intention to be parochial on this occasion. I wish to raise three areas for comment where there is great concern that there is a diminution of activity. 
The first area I want to mention is that of innovations. This may be the last opportunity that I will have to pay a tribute to a former Minister for Education, the honourable member for Fremantle,  Mr Kim  Beazley. I think that one must pay a tribute to the great stimulus he gave to educational thought in the Australian community. One of the areas that interested him greatly was the innovations program. In referring to that program the opening paragraph of an article in the  Education News,  Volume 15, No. 10 of 1976, stated: 
The Innovations Program rests on one basic principle: Individuals, and not governments or government agencies should define an innovation according to their needs and aspirations. It is a self-help program, returning initiative to teachers, parents and the community. It is inexpensive to run and thoroughly non-bureaucratic in its operation. Its primary purpose is to lift the quality of education in all Australian schools. 
I have seen some of the innovation programs and observed the trials that have been made. It seems to me that the attitude of this Government to education expenditure is stifling much of the stimulus for these programs. Much of the determining in an inexpensive way of what innovation can be used to improve the quality of education in our schools has disappeared in the community. There is a lack of confidence. 
The innovation programs more or less flow into the next area that I wish to raise, which is the primary school area. There is no doubt that in recent years modern teaching methods in schools and the type of curricula that have been devised are making the library the vocal point of the school. Rather than pupils being taught by rote we have been trying to take pupils on a voyage of discovery. The whole teaching process is oriented to their purpose so that they can be guided in finding information, collating that information and learning how to organise it and put in together and so develop their thought processes rather than be confined to just a regurgitation of things learned by heart. If this is to occur in primary schools, there must be effective primary school libraries. 
The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  spoke about what happened in the field of tertiary education and raised some doubts about it. I perhaps share some of those doubts about whether we did not start at the wrong end in many ways by concentrating so much on tertiary education. We find that there is no effective program for government primary schools in any of the States for the proper provision of primary school libraries and that much of the necessary action is really left to the parents in the community. What is there reflects the lack of ability of the community to afford the proper sort of library setup that gives all those aids which are needed to allow the pupil to make his investigations and discover how to learn. This is all the more important for children from economically disadvantaged areas. It is the old story that we have heard so often in this House that resource material, including books, is not available in the home. So these children are even more disadvantaged when there are poor library facilities. I would like to see a stimulus to this thinking to increase the number and range of libraries in primary schools. 
The third subject I raise arises out of the reports that the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty has been bringing forward. Many of these papers have referred to educational matters. In the document 'School Leavers: Choice and Opportunity',  Dr Fitzgerald  comments: 
The material and recommendations in these reports do not necessarily reflect the views of the Commission. However, they have been fully considered and taken into account in assisting the Commission to formulate recommendations to the Australian Government. 
One cause for regret is that, whilst these reports are circulated to members of the public for their information, we in the Parliament who are concerned with the direction in which we are going in various areas do not have an effective mechanism for debating them. In this volume, there is a study which deals in particular with migrant females in a certain school. I have had some experience with one of the local schools, Preston Girls High School, where there is a very high migrant content and where many of the problems expressed in this report occur. Some of the suggestions made in the report should be discussed in the educational field. There should be debate on it. We should be questioning why something effective is not being done about these aspects. I refer particularly to that part of the report which states: 
As part of the 'support' services available in a school for students, a curriculum suitable for a multicultural school is imperative. 
It comments that the premise behind this is that ethnic groups and individuals must be able to decide, their own participation within the cultures. With the sort of setup we have at the moment, the school system is rather antagonistic to this sort of cultural diversity. The programs for this sort of facility for migrants are left to State governments which show no initiatives and no ability to supply this multicultural diversity by providing adequate staff and facilities for these children. I regret that time does not allow me to expand on this area. It should be one of great concern to us as it is found in many areas in the major cities of Australia and even some of the larger country centres. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Is it a fact that the waiting time for hearing of claims of exservice personnel for totally and permanently incapacitated pensions is 12 months? Is he aware of the suffering caused to such persons by this delay? Is it a fact that stringent restrictions on the granting of sustenance allowance to eligible exmembers, thus forcing them to exhaust normal sick leave for their accepted disabilities, is causing hardship? 
Order! The honourable member for Capricornia will address himself to the Bill before the House. 
What happened in South Australia? Some 1 5 1 ,000 man days were lost. 
The honourable member for Mackellar tonight criticised the Queensland Government for diligently going about its duty. He criticised it because it has been in office for so long and because it is a stable government. What did the Queensland Government do? It became a claimant State. It has every right in the world to become a claimant State. There is no reason in the world why it should not have become a claimant State. What happened in New South Wales? It changed its government. It changed its leadership time after time. 
Oxley campaigned for the election and got well away from the Bill. In the main all he said was that what the Queensland Government was doing was wrong. He said he was apologetic for the fact that he was a Queenslander. I would never apologise for being a Queenslander. I am proud of the fact that I am a Queenslander. The point that so many speakers have missed up to date is that this Bill provides an advance grant of $14m for 1977-78. This is very important. The Queensland Government has been a claimant State in the past. It is not something new. I am quite sure that all honourable members have known for many years that Queensland is a claimant State. This year, because of many factors, Queensland rightly argued the case before the Grants Commission that it should have an increase. If one looks at the arrangement under the Housing Agreement and at many other areas one can see that Queensland had a very worthwhile case to argue. There was a slight disadvantage in the tax sharing arrangements for Queensland but this has been caught up with the special grant of $24.8m. 
I am at a complete loss to know why honourable members from other States are complaining when their State governments have every right in the world to make claims and to become claimant States under the Commonwealth Grants Commission. There is no reason that the States cannot lodge claims or argue them before the Grants Commission. Queensland, with its vast decentralised areas, has a rightful case to argue. Due to the enormous length of roads that we have in Queensland and the enormous rail service that we have, we can rightly argue that in some areas we are disadvantaged. I cannot for the life of me see why these people so consistently criticise the Queensland Government. One honourable member has stood here tonight politicking and another has said that he feels sorry for the State Government of New South Wales and feels sorry for the fact that he is a taxpayer of that State. We acknowledge the fact that Queensland is the most decentralised State. We acknowledge the fact that Queensland has the benefit of mineral resources, but other States have the same mineral wealth if they want to exploit it. We have every reason to exploit our mineral wealth for the betterment of Queensland. Surely that is what it is all about- for the betterment of Queensland. If it is good for Queensland it certainly is beneficial to Australia as a whole. There is no way in the world that Queensland looks in isolation at everything it does. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Orders and he knows that he may not debate the matter. I am listening carefully and if the honourable member strays from the path of correctness I will pull him up. 

 Mr CARIGE (Capricornia)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-The honourable member for Capicornia  (Mr Carige)  is - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Is leave granted? 
-I have received a letter from the honourable the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The crisis in building and construction caused by the Government's economic policies. 
I called upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-I want to refer in particular to clause 3 which relates to Interpretation. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  indicated in his second reading speech, this Bill has a different format from the one that had existed previously. If this Bill were not being dealt with in indecent haste - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
I have much pleasure in seconding the amendment. Before dealing with the details of it I want to make a few general remarks on the Bill. This Bill is really the first brought in since the change to Tertiary Education Commission. It will be obvious to honourable members who examine the situation that the change to that Commission has brought substantial changes in the way grants for tertiary education assistance are given. It seems to me that we need a better mechanism to handle the details that are gone through in dealing with this type of Bill in the Parliament. 
I remind honourable members that a joint committee of both Houses of this Parliament was set up to investigate parliamentary procedures. The report of that committee seems to have been buried in the last two years. Yet one of the recommendations made m it was that there was a place for legislation committees to carry out this process, rather than using the Committee of the Whole House to examine the Bill clause by clause. I would suggest,  Sir, that  when we are considering the setting up of the Tertiary Education Commission, with the combination of the three groups and we have the format of the Bill in the way it is presented, this is one of those times when honourable members of this House should be able to make close examination of what is contained in the Bill. In his second reading speech on this Bill the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said: 
Under the Bill, the Minister will be given power to effect transfers of capital funds between sectors and between States after advice from the Commission. Such transfers between sectors will be subject to consultation with the States concerned and, where any transfers between States are contemplated, will be made only with the agreement of those States. 
A number of us were having a look at that statement and arising from it we started to look for this provision in the Bill. While there was general consensus that this flexibility in the transfer of funds was desirable, that it would lead to more efficient use of funds in allowing the transfer, concern was expressed that Parliament, not only the States and the Minister, should be aware of the way these amounts were carried over. I am sure most honourable members have not thought about that aspect. In the way the Bill is laid out this provision takes some finding. However, we were assured in examining it that that provision for Parliament to be informed of the transfer was there. We think that is desirable. 
I turn to the matters contained in the amendment. Firstly it deals with insufficient funding for technical education in Australia. Criticism in this area could be levelled also at the previous Labor Administration because technical and further education was the last sector to get off the ground. But the whole problem that is being highlighted in the community today is one of technological needs and persons to be trained in this area. We find that although there is an increase in real terms for technical and further education, this really does not compensate for the neglect of technical and further education in the past. One thinks that perhaps some of the money that is being spent on expensive advertising campaigns for the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  with the various apprenticeship schemes and so on, supplying employment and training for next to no one, would have been better put to more practical use in these institutions. This is one area where the Government is to be greatly criticised for not accepting its responsibility and accelerating the area of technical education for Australia's benefit. 
The next criticism contained in the amendment is in regard to the Government's stated intention to transfer a major section of tertiary education funding to the States. There is no doubt that this will react badly to the detriment of tertiary education. We have all experienced the situation that occurred in that field prior to the Labor Government accepting full responsibility for tertiary education. It is a difficult field at any time because facilities have to be provided for an increasing number of people. The tendency, in today's economy particularly, to keep the young person in education longer so that he does not become an unemployment statistic is placing greater and greater strains on tertiary education. 
One looks back to the bad old days when the States funded tertiary education, admittedly through the autonomous bodies that controlled tertiary institutions. One knows of the lacks that there were in places for individuals, in variety of courses and in the sort of equipment that is needed to carry out properly the teaching and training in the disciplines. One can see this intention to transfer a major proportion of education funding back to the States as only a retrograde step because it has been shown in the past that in so many areas State Education Ministers can indulge in a lot more pork barrelling. It is suggested that there are problems with centralised bureaucracy, that there is disadvantage in this. But in education a great disadvantage is the temptation at the parochial level of the States to indulge in pork barrelling in funding the various institutions. At the moment there is a system where there are recommendations for allocations. There is the examination of expenditure across the whole tertiary field. 
There have been great advances in tertiary education since 1972 and it would be a shame to see a backward step taken in that area. The same criticisms that were offered to the State Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill are offered on the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill. They are Bills that require much fuller debate and much closer examination at the Committee stage. They have been subject to commission reports and the various commission reports should be considered because of the criticisms they contain of the sorts of guidelines that this Government has laid down- not only the guidelines which do not allow for real growth in expenditure but which are so restrictive in their nature that they prevent the commissions from making the true choice in the allocations of funds on needs. This was the element that we were able to introduce in our education legislation, whether it was under the schools assistance legislation or the tertiary education legislation. We were able to use needs as a basis and guidelines were not so restrictive as to prevent some free choice by the commission on needs for the various aspects of education. I feel in this tertiary education field that the technical education field is still the Cinderella. In return for the Government Whip not gagging me a third time for the evening I have agreed to sit down at this point in the debate. But I repeat the complaint that I think Parliament is being treated with contempt in the Government not allowing such important Bills fuller debate. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Corrigendum to Answer given on 26. 10.77. House of Representatives. Hansard, p. 2544. 1966 Election 
First pargraph, last line. Delete CP lost 1 to the ALP (Dawson). 1969 Election 
Second paragraph, last line. Insert (Riverina) and 1 making the last line read: ALP (Riverina); Independent lost 1 to the ALP (Batman). 1974 Election 
Fourth paragraph, second last line. Delete A in 2nd ALP making it read: the ALP (Henry, Isaacs); CP lost 2 to the LP (Canning). 
-A wide-ranging debate has been allowed by my predecessor. I was listening carefully. The honourable member has connected his remarks with the subject matter. I suggest that he not persist for too long with that line. 
The other matter on air safety which I want to mention relates to the fire at Mascot a few weeks ago. That fire was the result of a tragic accident in which a petroleum tanker overturned. Flaming spirit poured down the drains outside the airport, travelled underground for some hundreds of yards and surfaced between No. 5 and No. 6 passenger bays and the aerobridges of TAA, in the Qantas power house, in a Qantas hanger and in a TAA hanger. I drew attention to the danger. In good airport design external drains do not flow under airports. It is a safety requirement a basic requirement of airport design that drains from outside an airport should not flow under an airport. The position at Mascot is that the drains in the nearby streets flow under the airport, under the buildings, into a pond in the inner part of the airport environs, across to Alexandria Canal and into Cook's River. When I drew attention to the danger, the Minister's response was that it was a unique accident. 
I again put to the Minister and to the Government that the situation is very serious. It was just plain good luck that nobody other than the unfortunate person in the motor accident was hurt. The situation exists and the Government is aware of it. If anything happens, the Government is responsible. There is one facet which I have not mentioned previously. During the period of tension in the course of the delay after this incident occurred, TAA aircraft could not unload. Aircraft were on the tarmac. Flames had surfaced between No. 5 and No. 6 aerobridges and at other places. There were not sufficient fire engines to deal with a Jumbo crash or anything above a Fokker crash during the major part of this crisis. 
I wish to inform the House of what happened in one aircraft that was waiting to unload at one of the aerobridges. This is a perfectly human side of what happens in these situations. During that period a passenger became very concerned because the aircraft had landed and the passengers were not being unloaded. Apparently, from what 
I can gather, the passengers did not know what was happening. The aircraft were waiting on the tarmac. As honourable members know, the airline companies are very happy to serve alcohol on aircraft. I understand that in this case some kind of sedative had probably been imbibed during the course of the journey. The passenger became excited and broke into the flight deck of the aircraft and demanded to know what was going on. This is the kind of thing that happens. In this case the aircraft was stationary and no injury or further damage was caused. The unfortunate passenger, for his pains, was arrested and charged. Who is responsible in a situation such as this? 
For the Minister to regard lightly the Mascot incident, the drainage problem there and the lowering of standards of fire fighting appliances is just not good enough. To say that it was a unique accident is not good enough. We are extremely lucky that something far more serious did not occur. An aircraft could have been between No. 5 and No. 6 aerobridges. There were not sufficient engines present. There could have been an incident in aircraft which were waiting on the tarmac because they could not unload their passengers. The Opposition has a commitment to restore aircraft safety standards to those that prevailed prior to the change in government. The next Labor govemmment will give top financial priority to ensuring that aircraft have the proper standards of safety and that the aviation industry has clear guidelines. 

 -Mr Speaker, as your opponent in the recent ballot I offer my congratulations to you on your return to the Chair. I believe that that re-election will give you much satisfaction. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  pointed out the experience that you have had in this place. In the two years of the last Parliament you showed that that experience had given you a feeling for the position of  Speaker.  As has been said, the position of  Speaker  has a long history and has much meaning for the ordinary member of Parliament. I would like a couple of minutes to comment on this aspect,  Sir. 
With the three years that you now have ahead of you, you can make a real contribution to the rights and privileges of members of this Parliament. One of the things that I hope will occur in those three years is that you will bring the Speakership to a level of independence where the  Speaker  is vested with far more discretion than the Parliament has seen fit to give up until now. We can talk about may areas where, if the  Speaker  were given discretion, there would be great benefit to members. One has to look only at Question Time in this Parliament. It is one of the dullest question times of any of the parliaments in the Westminster system. It could be altered by simply giving you a discretion to allowing supplementary questions which it is proper that the Executive should answer. 

 Mr Speaker, during the three years I hope that you will also be able to look at parliamentary procedures. Mention was made of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. I know that you are interested in seeing some of its recommendations carried out in order to make your task easier and to give more meaning to what the average member of Parliament is able to do. Perhaps the same should be said about you having discretion in relation to discussion of ministerial statements, various white and green papers and so on. It is true that Parliament spends more time discussing these matters, but it does so only when waiting to discuss other business. I would like to see you having discretion to determine whether debates on these matters should develop forthwith. 
You showed during your last term an intense interest in associations of parliamentarians, both Commonwealth and international. I am sure that you would want debated in this Parliament the reports of the Australian delegations to the International Parliamentary Union and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. We send our members to these conferences and nothing happens. Yet matters are raised by parliamentarians and amongst parliamentarians which should be discussed. I think you,  Sir, should  have the initiative to see that they are discussed. 
You showed an interest in the last Parliament in a new and permanent Parliament House. I hope you will continue that interest and agitate for better facilities for ordinary members of Parliament. Once more, the Executive seems to be shifting more and more staff to this building and taking up more and more space. I doubt that that is proper. I know the intolerable conditions that members and staff experience in this House. I refer also to ministerial staff. If this were not Parliament House, the conditions would constitute offences against health regulations and industrial regulations. As Secretary of my Party I have a room which occupies 156 square feet. It has to be shared by myself and a secretary and the records of myself and of the Labor Party. Knowing your interest, I trust you will continue during this Parliament to fight for those rights of members and impress upon the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the needs which have arisen. I congratulate you once more. I thank my Party, including my nominator and seconder, for my nomination as  Speaker. 
-In the traditional way, I have congratulated the  Speaker  on his election. I would like you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to pass on my congratulations to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. I take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the former  Chairman  of Committees,  Mr Lucock.  I well recall that when I was  Chairman  of Committees in this House  Mr Lucock,  with his experience, was of great assistance to me. It pleased me during the last Parliament to be of some assistance to him. In conveying those congratulations, I also welcome you back,  Mr Deputy Speaker  Drummond, as one of the  Deputy  Chairmen of Committees. The  Deputy  Chairmen of Committees are the unsung work horses of the House. They are unrewarded, but by what they do in the chair they help with the efficient running of this Parliament despite the harassment they suffer from some of their colleagues, who have no idea of the responsibilities of the Chair. 
Having said that, I pass on to the new members who have made their maiden speeches. I congratulate them. All of us appreciate just how difficult it is to stand up for that first time to speak in this institution. We all are conscious of its importance and its history. They all have handled themselves with commendable ability. 1 pay a special tribute to my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  who made his maiden speech this evening. He is one of those people who belong to a select band in this Parliament. Like myself, he has had the opportunity to make two maiden speeches in two different parliaments in Australia. I am sure that the honourable member for Lalor, in the traditions of his predecessors, Jim Cairns and Reg Pollard, will make a valuable contribution to this House. 
Many honourable members have commented on the changes in their electorates. One matter on which we should reflect is that the 1977 election was held very shortly after the introduction of redistributed boundaries. Many members of this House, like myself, were in a state of shock because of the changes that had occurred. In my case, the electorate of Scullin was changed from a compact 40 square kilometres to an area of 609 square kilometres. Happily the distribution commissioners left me with the area of Reservoir which I have now represented for the seventeenth year in State and Federal parliaments. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  were lucky enough to be given the other areas of the old Scullin electorate. I am sure that they will benefit from that association. 
I found myself with a much changed electorate. From the electorate of Diamond Valley I took over the more middle class suburbs of Bundoora and Watsonia, both developing residential areas. I received Whittlesea, the rural area of Diamond Valley. Then, from my colleague, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  I inherited Thomastown, Lalor, Epping and Craigieburn. Happily those voters followed their voting pattern and supported me- and here I am. I look forward with interest to handling an decorate in which in the past I helped to run campaigns for Reg Pollard and spent a considerable time sticking needles into constituents, delivering their babies and so on. 
It is always difficult to address oneself to an Address-in-Reply debate after a general election. It is particularly difficult when one is in opposition because one has just been through the process of a general election, during which the parties have put their policies and arguments and the electors have made a decision. I am quite unrepentant. I believe that the arguments we put forward on behalf of the Labor Party were the right ones. I believe that the Government got away with rather misleading tactics. The statements that it got away with are reflected in the Government's priorities, which are stated in the address given by the Governor-General on opening the Parliament. The basic premise of those priorities is as follows: 
To build on the progress we have made in the last two years, defeat inflation and unemployment, and restore full economic health to our country. 
I accept that the inflation rate is down. I am sorry but I cannot adopt the ostrich attitude of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson).  The level of unemployment is disastrous and the economy is in a stagnant condition. Not all of that is due to the actions of the present 
Government. Much of it reflects a world situation through so many factors. Of course, one of the problems which the Labor Party faced when in government was the world situation at the time. 
I think it would be churlish of Government supporters not to admit that the Labor Party raised the aspirations of people in the community during its years in government. It did convince them that there was a possibility of equality of opportunity which would allow them to develop their individual potentials. To do so required massive public expenditure and that, at a time of difficult international conditions, caused problems in the Australian economy. But now this Government, having had two years in office, having carried out those measures which it felt would correct the economy and being faced with record unemployment, must start to go back on its position of saying, as it did when we were in government, that the international economy formed no part of the problem whatsoever. In excusing its failure this Government now has to say that international factors are affecting its prospects. In the Governor-General's Speech the Government's second priority is stated as: 
To promote vigorously the development of Australia's resources and enlarge our external trade. 
I think that insufficient thought is being given to what is going on in this respect. Many years ago under a conservative government we lost our opportunity to trade with the European Economic Community. It was far too late during the previous Parliament to appoint a Minister to deal with trade negotiations with the European countries. It was like shutting the stable door after the horse had bolted. It was far too late. I think there is a warning to be taken from that. Late last year I had the opportunity of talking with various people from the Association of South East Asian Nations who have been trying to co-ordinate the economic and other development of the group of countries in that region. Five years ago one would not have thought that the ASEAN countries could co-operate and produce any combined muscle, but the progress they have made in those years leads me to worry that unless the Australian Government takes constructive initiatives within a very short time we will find ourselves frozen out of that area as well as out of Europe. The Government is talking about external trade. It really ought to get up and go into some of these areas where there are good prospects for trade. 
Another of the Government 's priorities is: 
To maintain the policies which have halted the excessive growth in government bureaucracy and expenditure, and to  continue the pursuit of greater efficiency and responsiveness by the public sector. 
Further on in the Governor-General 's Speech we see that the Government's economic policies will continue to be based on rigorous restraint of government expenditure so as to provide for longer term expansion in the private sector. One does not object to the pursuit of greater efficiency and responsiveness by the public sector but the Government has been going about its restraint of government expenditure at the expense of the economic conditions in Australia and it has been failing the private sector itself. I will not expand on that issue. Last night I heard the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  mention that the Government did not seem to realise that efficiency and responsiveness in the use of public moneys form an economic tool that governments should use but that what the Government was doing was just straight insensate cutting of public expenditure. 
It was mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech that the Government will place high priority on employment and training schemes, particularly those which increase young people's skills, and enable them to take job opportunities as they arise. My experience of that is that many of these schemes are acting as subsidies for employers. They do not assist in providing continuing employment. They are just a cop for those employers and they are not efficiently thought out. One sees it with the National Employment and Training Scheme and one sees it with apprenticeships. I have spoken to people from private employment agencies who were disgusted that youngsters were being put out of their jobs because they could be replaced by someone attracting one of these government allowances. These schemes are not the massive answer to the problem that the Government says they are. They are not increasing employment opportunities for young people to the extent that they should be doing. 
Let me turn to consideration of health costs. I know that this matter has been mentioned today. The Governor-General 's Speech stated: 
My Government is considering how the universal health insurance scheme might be further improved to provide a prompt and effective health insurance scheme which restrains increases in the cost of health care. 
The trouble with that is that the Government implies that the comprehensive health insurance scheme is the cause of rising health costs. That is absolute nonsense. The health insurance scheme which has been introduced by the present Government has degraded the Medibank scheme which was introduced and which benefited all in the community. But health costs themselves are rising. One of the problems with a fee for service basis and a referral method in medicine is the sort of increases one sees mentioned in today's  Australian.  The great cry, when we were introducing Medibank, was that medical practitioners would be flooded with patients. In today's  Australian  Dr John  Deeble was able to say that only two per cent more people went to general practitioners after the introduction of Medibank. Honourable members on the Government side have been very quick to defend the medical profession. I think the medical profession ought to examine the statistics which show that during the same period that there was a two per cent increase in patients to general practitioners there was a 100 per cent increase in diagnostic investigations. I shall quote the article properly. It refers to:  . . a dramatic increase in the number of doctors referring patients for diagnostic tests and to specialists. 
Why should that occur? It may be the responsibility of practitioners in the service. It reflects the problem which occurs with a fee-for-service scheme. I believe the article which accompanies this story deals with someone who obviously knows about the health maintenance schemes. These have existed for many years. I visited the Kaiser Health Foundation in 1968. It was one of the earliest examples where the salary basis was used. It was able to show a decrease in the unnecessary operations carried out. Professor Lou Opit, the head of the social medicine department at Monash University at the conference where these other statistics were given, stated: 
Medical fees give doctors an overwhelming incitement to cheat . . . In 1976, for instance, there were 26,000 hysterectomies, but statistics showed that only one in every 200 of these women had the possibility of getting cancer of the womb. On the other hand, he said, each of the operations cost about $ 1 ,000, so it cost the nation $26m. 
The experience with schemes, such as the Kaiser scheme, shows that the same situation applies to appendicectomies, tonsillectomies and a whole series of other operations. So, for goodness sake, honourable members on the Government side should not think that they will get away with the suggestion that the type of health insurance alone that they are nurturing will restrain health costs. Time is passing all too quickly. I wanted to raise the matters of narcotics, civil rights, security and some of the things which happen at international conferences and which relate to the human rights of parliamentarians. But I shall simply refer to narcotics which my colleague, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  mentioned. 
During the Whitlam years I was  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. We opened an inquiry into trafficking in Australian fauna with other countries. That inquiry continued during the time of the last Parliament and a report was presented. During the course of that inquiry allegations were made that the smuggling of fauna to other countries, particularly to South East Asia, was the avenue by which finance was provided for drugs, such as heroin and so on, to be purchased and flown back to Australia. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  know of disused airstrips which exist in the outback areas of north Queensland. You know the conditions of coastal streams, where boats can get up the streams and cannot be spotted from the air. You know the vast area involved. In the north western part of Western Australia the same situation obtains. There are disused airstrips everywhere and reports of aircraft passing overhead when there are no scheduled flights in that area. There are four-wheel drive vehicles all over the place. 
In fact, in the past it has been the simplest thing in the world for this sort of narcotic trafficking to go on. If narcotic trafficking can continue in that way we must have some doubts about the ability of the defence forces in Australia to carry out adequate surveillance of such areas. The problems associated with illegal immigration and so on are also involved. We are faced with many problems. We are told that this Government will deal with the defence of Australia. The Government, by way of its economic restrictions, has cut down on the mid term and long term programs for defence. All the problems of narcotics, smuggling, illegal migrants and defence are tied up in those vast areas. The insensate cutting of public expenditure has reduced the possibility of responsible officers of Commonwealth departments being able to carry out the duties they know should be carried out. The glaring Press reports of these happenings are an indictment of the inefficiency of this Government in handling the situation which it knows exists. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)During the speech of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  entered the House and on two occasions crossed between the honourable member who was speaking and the Chair. The  Speaker  this morning drew the attention of the House to this increasingly common breach of Standing Orders. I ask the honourable member for Melbourne to observe the appropriate Standing Order on future occasions. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both Bills? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-As a member of the Standing Committee on Expenditure since its inception in the last Parliament and having made a decision that when it is set up again I will not serve on it, I think I should make a few comments. The fact that I am not seeking to serve on it again is no criticism of the way in which the Committee has functioned. However, the warning should be given that, because of the type of work done by the Expenditure Committee, if it is to be done properly, there has to be a close examination of matters. I think one should give warning to those honourable members who will serve on this Committee as to the time that is necessary to be spent in meetings of the Committee itself and of the sub-committees. Those honourable members should not have the illusion that it will just be a matter of brief examination of these fields. I think they should be warned of that fact. 
I agree with the reduction in the quorum requirement because this will ease the manner of operation of the Committee. It has been well served by the staff appointed to it. However, I make the comment in passing that the Expenditure Committee has added a major factor to the committee system of this House. I believe that some widening of its powers could be used to lessen the number of committees it is necessary for the House to appoint. After two years ' experience of the Committee's operations, I think that insufficient thought has been given to that aspect. I trust that that situation will be reviewed in view of other steps that are being predicted and that, through some changes, the Committee may be an even more effective instrument than I believe the first two years have shown it to be. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to speak briefly to this motion. No sensible member of the House would oppose the appointment of this Committee. However, I am disappointed that, with the Committee being set in operation again, there has been absolutely no indication given by the Government or the Prime Minister of a proposed date for the commencement of this New and Permanent Parliament House. This Committee is examining a report published by the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House in March 1970. It is examining something that is eight years old. We have proceeded only a little further towards having a proper program developed. Some of my colleagues in the House, such as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who were members of the Select Committee suffered great discomfort and disadvantage to themselves by travelling widely to look at parliament houses throughout the world to see the conditions that applied to them. But unless a date of commencement is given the situation will become worse. 
I was elected to this House in 1969. The conditions under which I work in 1 978 are far worse than those that applied in 1 969. 1 am not suggesting that that is an individual experience; it applies to practically every member of the House and to every person employed in this building. The working conditions of most people here are intolerable. Some obvious factors contribute to it. Members of Parliament now are allowed to have one member of staff working here with them, but no sensible accommodation has been provided. The number of Ministers and their staffs housed here has increased, but no provision of accommodation has been made for them. This is an old building with a number of extensions being made. I think an effort was made to improve my accommodation recently when some work involving water pipes was done. But the plumbers forgot to connect one of the pipes and when I arrived on Monday the room was flooded. Unfortunately the application of water, rather than making the room grow appeared to make it shrink. 
I address myself to the Committee. I know that its members have applied themselves seriously to their task. I know that there is an appreciation that the efficiency of operation of members and staff in this building is affected by the conditions under which they work. But it is quite useless to look at plans until we have a firm commitment to a date for the commencement of the project. I hope that the Committee will take firm action on that to see that the Prime Minister gives it an early reply. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I again speak briefly, this time in respect to the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I will offer a few words of praise and a few words of criticism. I happen to have some sort of proprietorial interest in this Committee, having been the  Chairman  of it at its inception and having been a member of it for virtually the whole of its existence. In this area, which generally is considered to be a trendy area in the community, Ministers, over the years of the Committee's existence, whether they were Ministers in a Labor government or a Liberal government, have always been most cooperative with the Committee. I trust that the new Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)-  I will have grace enough to congratulate him on his appointment- will find some pleasure in his association with the Committee. 
I believe that such committees, after they have been operating for a time, should be required to review the results of the reports they have made on past references. There was one example of this in the last Parliament with regard to Ayers Rock. This kind of committee should be required to review regularly what has arisen out of the reports. 
I want to make one or two points of criticism: The motion presently before the House states, amongst the things that the Committee can do, that it can deal with such other matters, et cetera, as are referred to it by resolution of the House. I think it is regrettable that there is so little input from this House in respect to the subject matter before that Committee. The matters that the Committee deals with are raised by the members of the Committee itself or the Minister. I think that in a parliamentary committee system, Parliament ought to be responsible for some of the input to the committees. 
I make another criticism: This is one of many subject matter committees we are dealing with today. The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure was supposed to have been seen as part of a new committee set up and the introduction of legislation committees has been predicted. If these committees come into being, we will not be able to rise at the start of a new parliamentary session and deal with subject matter committees such as the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, the Standing Committee on Road Safety, the Standing Committee on Tourism and the others without giving some consideration to the overall picture. 
I am an enthusiast of the Environment and Conservation Committee. But if we take a proper look at the committee system it may well be that the Environment and Conservation Committee and some of the other subject matter committees may have to disappear as entities and that the subject matter they examine be covered by some other committees so that the most important matters in a wide variety of fields can be dealt with by members of this Parliament in the limited time they have available. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I refer the Prime Minister to his letter of 17 January to the Managing Director of IBM Australia Ltd,  Mr A.  G. Moyes in which he mentions  Mr Moyes'  letter to him of 2 December and 'to our subsequent discussions' in the matter of a new computer for the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Trade and Resources. I ask: How many of these subsequent discussions between the Prime Minister and  Mr Moyes  took place? Were they private discussions or did they take place in the presence of government officials? Were they telephone discussions or did the Prime Minister meet with  Mr Moyes  at his home and /or his office? Following those discussions, is it a fact that the  Chairman  of the Government Stores and Tender Board wrote the first of three letters to the tenderers, each widening the specifications of the computer contract? How long has the Prime Minister known  Mr Moyes  and in what capacity? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is it a fact that the Community Youth Support scheme projects are financed on a sixmonthly basis? Are CYSS groups aware of finance being available only until 30 June 1978? Is CYSS to continue after that date? If so, when will the groups be advised of the finance to be made available to them in the future, both short term and long term? 
-I listened with some interest to the debate on this paper. I believe it is a bit like the curate's egg, as is a lot of the discussion. Honourable members have talked a lot about the onerous question of health costs- onerous because the percentage of the gross domestic product that is outlaid on health has risen to such a high percentage. They forget that before we had a more sophisticated method of health financing it was very onerous for the individual who had to pay health costs from his own pocket and who, in many cases, went without because he was frightened to seek medical attention because of the cost involved resulting, in many cases, in unnecessarily shortened lives. 
It is obvious too that one of the most interesting parts of this Paper has not been terribly well read. I think that this aspect deserves more attention by members of this House. I refer to Appendix I which gives a review of the history of health service financing in Australia. I want to make a number of comments on that. Appendix I refers firstly to the beginning of health insurance and then deals with mutual aid or friendly societies which operated under a capitation system and which were in existence for many years. Even at that stage doctors were worried that the Government might intrude into the financing of health care. They formed their own benefit funds to try to prevent this. As is mentioned in this history, part of the Constitution empowered the Commonwealth to legislate on insurance, and the matter was discussed in this House many years ago. In 1923 the Royal Commission on National Insurance recommended a national insurance scheme to cover sickness, invalidity and maternity and superannuation benefits and a separate national health scheme to provide medical care. It failed because of opposition from employers and friendly societies. The nature of the system might have been different, but the principle and the thought behind it were similar. 
In 1938 R. G. Casey introduced the National Health and Pensions Bill. When speaking to the Bill he expressed the then conservative Government's fear of the financial implications of free social security and its wish to preserve the dignity and the self-respect of the recipient of benefits by having him contribute financially towards the scheme. In 40 years members on the other side of the House have not advanced one inch from that position. Despite that attitude they legislated for insurance to provide medical care and other benefits. Only the war interrupted that scheme. 
I move on to Curtin 's expression of the belief that national health services, like education, should be available to all. Honourable members will recall the stormy days of the 1940s. A scheme was introduced whereby at least government hospitals in the States were paid for their beds and provided treatment of patients occupying those beds without means test or fee. One of the aspects of today's debate on which I want to comment is the confusion about hospital beds. Some members have appreciated that there are different categories of hospital beds, that there are private hospitals and private investment hospitals financed by doctors and others interested in the health care held, quite apart from government hospitals, which play a role in increasing the cost of health care. I move from that situation to the introduction of the National Health Act in 1953, when some payment went to government hospitals but the major part of the payment depended on the individual taking out voluntary health insurance to receive a further amount. 
I graduated in medicine 25 years ago, and my experience with health insurance was in the period before the introduction of Medibank. I knew only too well that many people could not afford the voluntary health insurance that gave them the extra benefit. I saw the bad debts that occurred even amongst those who could afford voluntary health insurance. Despite the patching up that went on it was, overall, a most unsatisfactory situation. So I welcomed the introduction of Medibank. I welcomed even more some of the programs that went with it, such as the introduction of community health centres. The honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  spoke about preventive medicine. One of the best steps that was taken in the national health scheme was the development of community health centres. If they had been allowed to operate as was originally intended when they were introduced, if they had been allowed to operate with salaried staff in the communities where they were needed, where there was no need for fee-for-service to attract finance, they would have continued to play the real role they started to play in preventive medicine in the community, with doctors and paramedical workers able to go out into the areas they served to look at so many of the problems that arise in those communities and so many things that could be done in a preventive fashion. 
My colleague the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  spoke about the failure of hospitals to have a mechanism for comparing costs. He mentioned the work of  Dr Ian  Brand, at Preston and Northcote Community Hospital, where I am a member of the board of management, and referred to his attempt to use Hospower. This is a system whereby hospitals try to compare their costs. Because of the lack of a true comparative mechanism there can be no true comparison, and that is the criticism of the system. It is said by some people that Medibank led to overutilisation. Several weeks ago there was a statement by  Dr Deeble  to the effect that on the introduction of Medibank there was a 2 per cent increase in patient visitations to doctors, but that there was a 100 per cent increase in the referrals for diagnostic tests or specialist opinions. It is said that the doctors are the gatekeepers of the scheme. There is a group of diseases called iatrogenic diseases which are doctor produced, and I wonder whether on those figures much of the increase in health costs is not iatrogenic. Some of it is probably very deliberate. 
We have all been shocked by recent court cases, not only those in the social security area but also those in other areas, in which doctors have been shown to be making fraudulent returns. This also points up a defect in the medical training that the doctors receive. Our training is, or has been, directed to the more complicated and exotic complaints rather than to the common problems, the common stress situations and the common minor illnesses with which most of the patients attend. Not enough emphasis has been placed on the social aspect of medicine and on the need for care in ordering expensive tests. 
Mention has been made of the availability of hospital beds. There appears to be an excess number. Let us look at the availability of government hospital beds and of private hospital beds, particularly in that group of private investment hospitals of which I spoke. I must admit to having a feeling that it is unethical for members of the medical profession to have shares in private hospitals. There is a financial inducement for them to refer patients to those hospitals and for overuse of beds. I think that they should be divorced from the activities of those hospitals. From an examination of the availability of beds there appears to be a skew deviation. If a person can pay the extra money, pay the higher fees, pay the gap insurance and so on he can get a bed, but there is a relative shortage in the public area. One of the basic reasons for the increased cost to the Government of the scheme lies in the old argument of fee-for-service versus salaried service. Time does not permit me to develop that theme and to mention the experiences of Flexner's view in the early 1900s, the Kaiser health scheme and organisations such as the Windsor health service in Canada. 
Mention was made of incentives for hospitals. Canada introduced such incentives in hospitals when the grants made to hospitals initially were based partly on the average bed cost for hospitals in a Province and partly on the average daily bed cost of that hospital itself, which gave an incentive for the hospital to get below the average. Unfortunately, I have little speaking time left, but I want to look at a couple of the conclusions in the discussion paper. Conclusion 2 on page 102 states: 
Increased use of medical and hospital services and increases in fees and prices have, resulted in a very rapid growth in expenditures. 
We need to make an analysis of that increased use of medical and hospital services and who brings it about. We need to make an examination of who causes the increases in fees and prices. As honourable members know, the suggested Australian Medical Association schedule of fees differs from the Government schedule. Conclusion 3 states: 
It is concluded that patients should pay a larger share of the costs of health care directly out-of-pocket for three reasons: to retard rates of expansion in the use of medical and hospital services - 
We do not necessarily accept that that is a fact and that it will lead to better health-  to reduce the rate of growth of Government expenditures on health services - 
I suppose that it would work there, but whether that is a good thing is another matter-  to reduce the rate of growth in health insurance contribution rates. 
I would like to know more about that mechanism because when I turn to conclusions 20 and 21 I find the following: 
C20. It is essential that statistics on claims for health benefits be available for analysis. The supply of information from private health benefit organisations is incomplete . . . 
C2 1. A number of matters require intensive study: 
Increased direct payments by patients impinge most heavily on the poor. 
It goes on to ask a number of questions which are not as yet answered. If they are not answered I have doubts about a number of the other conclusions that are made in this paper. I would like to be able to expand on that further but time will not allow that. I think that the matter requires further examination. 
-At Question Time today I asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  a question about the funding of Community Youth Support Scheme projects. I received an answer which indicated that CYSS, like motherhood, was very desirable, but I did not receive an answer to my question. It so happens that many project officers working in CYSS are trying to make what is in many ways an unsatisfactory scheme work. Yet the basis of the funding of CYSS is only for a short-term period. The Professional Officers Association in Victoria has written to the officer in charge of the scheme in Victoria pointing out that the six-monthly funding limits the effectiveness of the scheme in many ways. Much of the time has to be spent in preparing submissions, and no planning can go on except for the most short-term contingencies. Among the staff there are people with considerable expertise and considerable feeling for persons for whom they are working, but this short term six-month financing makes it quite impossible for them to plan their future course. This limits the efficient functioning of the projects. 
At Question Time today I asked: Is it a fact that CYSS projects are funded only until 30 June 1978? They are funded only until that date. There is a guarantee of funds only until 30 June. The officers have no indication at this stage, in April, what finance will be available to them after 30 June. The one answer I got today from the Minister was: Yes, the scheme is to continue. That is not much for the people involved in those projects in Victoria who must plan ahead, in the job they are trying to do. 
I mention this matter because I have been cooperative. We have a quite reasonably successful project operating in my area. Heaven knows, there is enough work there to be done. The staff are suffering the problem of having to plan programs with short-term finance. If this scheme is to play a meaningful part in combating the effects of unemployment the officers who are trying to support the affected young people at a time of high unemployment- often involving young people who are in the transition period between leaving school and taking their first job, a time when they feel that their future is in doubt and a time when they feel their place in society is in doubt- must be supported. If this short-term attitude on funding of the scheme is to continue, if less than three months before the finance is due to run out they have no idea what the Government's future commitment will be, all the protestations in the world destroy the work these eager young officers are trying to carry out. I ask the Minister to take note of the question I asked today and to try to give the officers who work under that scheme, if not me, an answer to it. 

Order! The honourable member for Dawson is addressing the House. 
-The passage of the Softwood Forestry Agreements Acts in 1966 and 1972 enabled quite a degree of detail to be discussed in regard to this matter. Honourable members will recall that when the 1976 legislation was introduced it was a one-year measure to allow re-examination of the program. It is to be regretted that the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill which has just been introduced and which will operate for five years is so devoid of detail, so devoid of information and so devoid of any assessment of what the Government believes is necessary in this field. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  moved on behalf of the Opposition an amendment that indicates quite clearly that the Opposition has no basic objection to the Bill before the House but that it does believe that some funds should be provided to the States for new plantings and suggests that the same proportion as was provided for in the previous agreements is a reasonable basis on which to work. 
Before going further into the debate on the Bill, I should like to point out briefly the reasons for that amendment. The Bill provides only for the tending of previous plantings. It relies greatly on the State parliaments to take up new planting programs. Anyone who has experience of politics in Australia, either at a Federal or State level, knows very well that State parliaments will hang back in this area. I think we have some responsibility to see that there is a degree of continued plantings. I say that advisedly. We are talking about a crop that takes some 20 to 25 years to reach a usable, harvestable stage. I appreciate that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has said that in the second of the five years he will look at the question of whether there should be further plantings. If the Government relies on the State parliaments during this gap of five years it may find in 20 to 25 years that there has been a considerable downturn in the crop available; hence our concern to ensure some continued planting. 
The second point I should emphasise on behalf of the Opposition is that we are not in favour of the fairly widespread habit in the past under previous agreements of clear-felling vast areas of native forest to allow the plantings to take place. The object should be to use marginal cleared land. In the main, that would be failed agricultural land which has been cleared because of the taxation advantage to primary producers and which is a failure for other agricultural purposes but which may very well be useful for the growing of softwood crops. 
The third factor which ought to be looked at in the light of our amendment is the question of environmental conditions. Little mention is made of that in the Bill. At least in the previous Bills some attention was paid to environmental considerations. In this regard I refer to the 1975 report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on the operation of the Softwood Forestry Agreements Acts of 1967 and 1972. 1 was Chairman of that Committee at the time. It commented that at least in the 1967 Act there was a brief statement that the States shall ensure that planting during each year is carried out efficiently and in conformity with sound forestry and financial practices. It was not exactly enlightening as far as environmental factors are concerned. But in the 1972 Act more note was taken of environmental factors. It stated: 
The States shall ensure that planting during each year is carried out efficiently and in conformity with sound forestry and financial practices and shall ensure that environmental factors relating to planting have been considered. 
I think that in this sort of legislation we must always consider these types of factors. They are the types of factors that have caused a number of people to ask for a reassessment of the softwood plantings situation. When we deal with softwood plantings we are dealing with wider considerations- not just the growing of pine trees. We are talking about resource management, the question of self-sufficiency, whether it is necessary and how we provide it. We are talking of land usage, the sorts of things I raised in commenting on the amendment that we have moved. On the question of land usage, should we be clear-felling vast tracts of our natural forest or should we be using the marginal land that is available to grow this crop of softwoods? The other very significant factor in this area is the question of the environmental hazards that arise from such plantings. When I talk of environmental hazards I am not referring only to the green issues, if you like- the sorts of things that relate to Australian flora and fauna and cause so much emotional reaction. I am also talking about the problems that such plantings can cause for the watersheds of various water supplies in parts of this continent, the effect they have on water flow, the fact that there is no underlying vegetation, and so on. Very wide considerations are involved when one moves into this field. 
I want to remind the House of some of the matters that were commented upon in the report of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation published in 1975, and I wish to refer firstly to some of the findings set out on page 3. The honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  addressed himself to this Bill when it was previously before the House and quoted some of those findings. I have the feeling that he misunderstood the first finding, which states: 
Australia's timber resources are relatively small and should be conserved in the long-term interests of the nation. 
Listening to the tenor of his speech, I was not clear that he understood that the reference there was not only to softwood timber and the planting of exotics but also to Australia's resources of hardwoods and natural forests. The Committee stated that there was a need for a softwoods planning program, although it indicated that possibly it should be on a lesser scale, and I have commented on that previously. 
One of the comments the Committee made was that the present softwood forestry agreements legislation does not allow for sufficient long-term planning by the State forestry services, which are primarily responsible for the planting of exotic softwoods. I believe that this legislation does not improve that situation at all. In fact it places the full responsibility for new plantings on the States, and I have no confidence in that. The Committee also stated that there was a need for greater flexibility in committing large financial resources to a long-term planting program with regular objective scrutiny of the nation's needs. Once again, there is no indication in the legislation of that recommendation having been noted. I comment in passing that in introducing the 1976 Bill the Minister at that time did give recognition to this report and say that it would be considered. When he presented this Bill he made no reference at all to the report, as though it did not exist. In talking of land usage in this sense, the Committee suggested that in most States there was a need for greater public participation in deciding the use to which public land is to be put, and that is most important with regard to softwood plantings. 
Another matter that is most relevant at this time, when we are discussing forestry and considering a piece of legislation that allows no further planting, is that forestry and the timber industry are important elements in the decentralisation process and a substantial employer of manpower in rural areas where employment opportunities are limited. That is quite important at present and is not really given any attention in the present legislation. One of the things I should emphasise when referring to the recommendations of the Committee is that this Parliament in its program should not concentrate only on softwood programs but should be willing to consider a similar program for the regeneration of our natural hardwood areas in a way that would ensure the maintenance of forest diversity and a number of other environmental values. 
Kinglake is in a very good electorate. Kinglake West is well represented in this Parliament. 
-I am talking about myself. I represent Kinglake West. One of the things we are dealing with when talking about forests is the question of time. In softwood areas we are talking about thinnings at IS years and a suitable harvest at 20 to 25 years, but with hardwoods we are talking about a harvest in 70 or 80 years time. If we make mistakes now there is not much opportunity to correct them in 80 years time. We have lost. The Committee thought that these agreements should be examined at least every three years rather than sporadically every five years. Our other concern was the relatively short term of the softwood forestry agreement when compared with the growing period. The Committee believed, and it was an all-party committee, that the next softwood forestry agreement should cover a period of 10 years. It also made certain suggestions with regard to interest that I will deal with later. Another recommendation was that stringent conditions should be imposed upon the lending of Federal money to ensure that forestry management procedures designed to protect the environment are observed strictly. As I have pointed out previously, this Bill is completely silent on that matter. It is a Bill with little substance, except in the schedule, which merely describes the financial arrangements. 
Turning to the Committee's suggestions with regard to future agreements, I am happy to see that some of the suggestions have been accepted, largely in relation to financial provisions. Whilst we recommended that the next Act should be substantially different, we pointed out that there were two major and basic questions to be answered. The first was the question of the economic viability of the industry, and I think that has been answered. I do not think that there is any doubt about the economic viability of the industry. But because of differing opinions of the various bodies associated with the industry, the Committee then had to deal with the question of the areas to be planted each year, and in this case the Government has given its answer. It has clearly said that as far as it is concerned there is no need for any more softwood plantings. The question of the agreement allowing more orderly planning by covering a 10-year term has been ignored. It is again a five-year term. 
I turn to deal with the availability of the finance and the manner in which it should be paid. In 1975, the States asked that the interest free period of the loans be extended from 10 years to 15 years. With the wisdom of Solomon, the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation recommended at that time that the next softwood forestry agreements legislation should cover a period of 10 years- that was not accepted by the Government- with interest accruing from the commencement of the loan and with deferment of the payments of instalments of principle and interest for 15 years. I note in the Schedule attached to the Bill that that recommendation has been observed. There is a practical reason for that observation. After 1 5 years of growing softwood plantations, it is possible to start obtaining some produce from the thinnings and the smaller growth. I am pleased that that at least has been accepted in some way. 
I have spoken already about marginal farmlands. The other point I am concerned about in this Bill is that no attention is paid to the environmental hazards. 
None at all. Many principles are involved. The Minister might say that the foresters in the States are good foresters and that they can grow these trees very effectively, and they can. Of course, they are very efficient professionals in the preparation and growing of and tending to the trees. But in common with most of us who are single-minded in some sort of occupationI was nearly going to say we often cannot see the wood for the trees, but that would be almost a Freudian slip in this context- they lose the awareness of the concern that the environmental hazards can cause in the community. We should seek to make certain that at all steps the environmental concerns that are held in the community are observed. Unfortunately, I see that my time is coming to a close in this debate. 
Yes, only in this debate. I thank the honourable member for Robertson. I suggest that if honourable members read paragraph 159 of the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation and in particular sub-paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) and clauses (a) to (1) they will see the common-sense approach of this all party Committee to the sort of environmental factors that we should be talking about. Its members did not go overboard - 
Yes, it is a unanimous report. It was made by members of all parties who did not go overboard with a sort of bleeding heart approach. They made an eminently sensible consensus opinion on the sorts of safeguards about which this Parliament ought to think. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
What was the average weekly earnings of (a) males and (b) females during each of the last 5 years. 
How many (a) male and (b) female workers were in receipt of average weekly earnings during the same years and what percentage of the total work force did each group represent. 
How many (a) male and (b) female workers were in receipt of (i) more than and (ii) less than average weekly earnings during the same years and what percentage of the total work force did each group represent. 
-I wish to raise a complaint which is related to a matter that  has been discussed by the House tonight. I refer to frequency modulation broadcasting by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I think the easiest way to explain this matter is by my reading a communication from a friend of mine. 
I think that that puts the case to members of the House. I hope they will support the cause of rock music listeners of ABC-FM. 
-The Minister is raising a question of sub judice. I did hear an interjection raising that question. I am not clear about whether the matters raised by the honourable member are matters of legal action at the moment. If the honourable member for Gellibrand would like to make a submission on that point, it might assist the Chair. 
-Is the motion seconded? 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Prime Minister to lay down appropriate standards of ministerial conduct. 
Leave granted. 
-The question is: 'That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard'. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
-One can agree with the previous speakers that both of the Bills dealt with in this cognate debate are unexceptional in nature. The guarantees are consistent with the kinds of guarantees and conditions given previously. In other words, it is a routine matter; but if we look at the fact that Qantas Airways Ltd is to get its sixteenth and seventeenth Boeing 747B, and that Ansett Airlines of Australia seeks another Boeing 727-200, it does give us an opportunity perhaps, in the Parliament, to have a considered debate about what is going on in the aviation field in Australia. That is an opportunity that we do not often get. After all, ours is a country with a large land mass and a relatively small population, most of which is concentrated in a few centres. This brings with it many problems for our aviation industry. When one looks at the amounts guaranteed in these Bills, one wonders just how this kind of operation can be mounted and a profit obtained. 
I believe it is worthwhile drawing to the attention of the House a statement by Vial at page 36 of  Resolving Conflicts in Transport,  volume 1, published in 1977 by the Chartered Institute of Transport. On new equipment decisions, he comments that if one were considering the wide bodied jet, each airplane would cost, with capital spares, somewhere between $25m and $30m. I guess that figure would be somewhat higher now. The reaction of many people to the mention of this sort of price, 'How on earth can you get enough to make it pay?', is understandable. The statement continues: 
A recent Press story told of the raising of an overseas loan of $ 1 1 7m by Qantas to buy three new Boeing 747B aircraft, in other words, a capital investment of $39m each. 
The article quoted seating for 398 passengers, together with 1 1 .2 tonnes of cargo as the capacity of each new B747B, and it is instructive to do a little arithmetic with these figures, and some quoted in the latest Qantas annual report, and Department of Transport statistics. At the current achieved utilisation of 4,322 hours per annum, at an average block speed of 738 kilometres per hour, with a passenger load factor of S6.2 per cent, and a revenue return of 4.41c per passengerkilometre, each of the new aircraft would fly 3,384,340 kilometres a year, and bring in passenger revenue of $33,400,000. Assuming a cargo and mail load factor of 30 per cent, the current rate of revenue return of 22.4c per tonne-kilometre would bring in a further $4,250,000 giving a total annual revenue of some $37,650,000 or 96.5 per cent of the purchase investment. 
He comments: 'What an extraordinarily productive machine is the modern airliner'. In that article there is a deal of valid comment on the skill in airline management and the necessity to ensure that these capital intensive pieces of equipment are highly productive to meet traffic demand at as high a revenue load factor as is compatible with good standards of service and to devise operational and maintenance patterns which will keep fleet utilisation as high as possible while achieving minimum specified operating costs. I do not want to spend all my time reading from the article but I invite honourable members, if they want to inform themselves, to have a look at this article. 
My colleague the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has outlined a number of arguments in the field and he has referred them to this legislation. One of the matters he raisedthe honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  raised it as well- was the question of the reviews of both domestic and international aviation policy. They expressed the same disquiet as those people in the industry and in the field that these reviews have been 'in' things, that people in the airline industry itself feel that they are divided from it, that they are not part of it, that what they put up is selectively used- it was even suggested at times selectively leaked- for less than proper purposes, and there is a general lack of confidence in the outcome of the reviews. I think it would be fair to say that surely this is an area which is of great interest to this country and in which public inquiry into its special problems would have been preferable in all the circumstances. It might even be that this Parliament could take note of some of these feelings and consider establishing a select committee to look into the aviation field because when we talk about the aircraft that are covered by these Bills, we can see that the purchase of the larger aircraft, the increased passenger loads and so on project into all other facilities that are necessary. I am not sure that we really understand just how important and how massive are those sorts of investments, those sorts of requirements, for the handling of passengers and freight, servicing of machines, handling of spares and so on. 
The honourable member for Bowman made some reference to the question of cheaper fares. He indicated his special interest in the field of tourism. One wonders how cheaper fares will be handled. Australia, along with other countries, is showing a fairly healthy increase in this area. On page 1 of the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for 1976-77 it states that revenue for that year was up by 19.6 per cent and expenditure was up by 13.7 per cent. The figure for kilometres flown was about the only figure down. It was down by 10.1 per cent. Available tonnekilometres were plus 3.7 per cent; passengers carried, plus 6.9 per cent; passenger-kilometres flown, plus 8.3 per cent; passenger tonnekilometres, plus 8.2 per cent; cargo tonnekilometres, plus 8.7 per cent; mail tonnekilometres, plus 8.8 per cent; total revenue tonne-kilometres, plus 8.3 per cent; and revenue load factor, plus 4. 1 per cent. There was a rise all the way in the utilisation of aircraft, a rise reflected by other airlines. I noticed a recent article in the  Australian  of Monday with regard to the comments of Pan American World Airways Inc., in which it was said, for example, that in 1977 it had an 8 per cent increase in traffic between the United States and Australia. The article stated further that in 1976 Pan Am was able to average more than 1 1 hours a day utilisation of their 747s. This shows increasing vitality in the area that brings a lot of problems with it. 
In this debate we are talking about the 747B. Why have we chosen this particular form of 747? One knows, for example, that Pan Am is using the 747SP on some of the longer flights. We could have some on the routes that Qantas follows. It is the sustained performance craft which carries slightly fewer passengers but has been used to reduce the duration of trips. Australia has this experience because of the use of these craft by Pan Am on the Australia-United States route. In the Melbourne  Herald  of 1 1 April and again in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  there appeared comments about British Airways Super Jumboes with Rolls Royce motors. I notice that Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd will follow its lead. According to these reports there is obviously a much greater load factor with these craft. One would like more information as to why we make our choices. 
Having had a look at the requirements of aircraft one starts to question the projections for passenger and freight handling. I can understand our friends from Brisbane and so on being concerned about these matters. Even those of us who come from the larger areas, such as Sydney and Melbourne, express some concern in this regard. With the increased use of large aircraft even on the international scale we are facing a great number of problems with passenger handling in terminal facilities. The terminal facilities are strained at present- even if only over periods and not all the time- because of the schedules. There are problems with the provision of customs and health services in our terminals. 
Last year I was in an aircraft which landed at Tullamarine at the same time as a couple of other jumbo aircraft. From the time I entered the terminal until the time I exited from the customs area was one and a quarter hours. We hear a lot about tourism, quite apart from anything else such as the needs of business people. I can assure honourable members that after a long flight one and a quarter hours in the terminal is rather a long period. This delay is caused by handling problems in those areas and the problems of passenger carousels. In this regard there are other services at which we should look. I have not dwelt on the lower fares that have been discussed. In the  Australian  of 7 March the proposition is put forward of third class flights to Britain with an increased passenger load of 500. Among the propositions put forward is the suggestion that there could be a lesser service on the aircraft itself. It is suggested that it would be better to give the passengers just three meals in any 24-hour day rather than the expensive force feeding to which they are submitted at the moment. I am sure it would be possible to make a lot of savings in the aviation field if that sort of thing was examined. 
I want to deal briefly with the question of the purchase of the further Boeing 727-200. This has proved an excellent craft on high capacity runs, particularly the Melbourne to Sydney run. It has been used on the Perth-Melbourne and Melbourne-Perth run both for passengers and freight. Here again, with increased passenger content in these larger craft, we will strike the same terminal and handling problems that have been experienced with the international craft. We will face further problems with servicing facilities for both airlines. At the moment both airlines maintain separate servicing facilities. Hangars for servicing are pretty large components. They take a lot of land and a lot of construction. Although there are varying views within the companies, one wonders whether there is not a sound argument for some communal servicing facilities. I suppose the companies would throw up their hands in horror at that suggestion. 
The next matter to which I want to refer is the question of replacement. Where do we go, with regard to domestic airliners, from the 727-200. The honourable member for Bowman talked about the Airbus but I understand that the type of Airbus available at the moment is too large for Australian circumstances, so far as passengers are concerned. There are a number of aircraft which those who are interested in the subject term 'paper aeroplanes'. There is, for example, an Airbus predicted to be capable of holding 200 to 250 passengers, which is the preferred capacity, still on the drawing board. One wonders how long it will take to get off. 
Boeing, which has enjoyed great success with its 727 and 747 aircraft, also has paper aeroplanes on the drawing board to serve this widebodied capacity that would be preferable in Australia. The honourable member for Bowman mentioned the Tri-Star and the DC 10 in the context of wide-bodied jets for domestic use. I think the general feeling would be that these are too large for Australian purposes. This is a matter of  concern because obviously the decision must be made soon if those wide-bodied aircraft are to be delivered sometime early in the 1980s. I understand that those aircraft that would be preferred are still on the drawing board. We should have a wide discussion about this matter before we are committed to the purchase of those wide-bodied craft. They certainly provide a greater capacity on the high passenger runs. They would provide a greater capacity for carrying freight. However, we should look at the question of carrying freight on the domestic airlines because of the problems that may arise with regard to handling and schedules. It is obvious that to obtain the maximum use of the aeroplanes they have to be used on certain routes at certain times of the day and then swapped to other routes and times. A number of companies support freight handling by airlines. In those circumstances they will have to reconsider how they operate so that their freight can be carried on these schedules. 
I urge the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to give us as much information as he has on the wide-bodied aircraft and tell us when they are likely to be introduced. We, as politicians involved with ensuring the continued proper development of the airline industry in Australia, could then have an informed debate and know what is going on. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether a consultant was engaged by his Department during the current financial year to advise on the public presentation of Government policy. If so, who was the consultant, what were his terms of reference, what fee was he paid and is this a proper use of public funds? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
1 ) What sum has been allocated under the Commissioner for Housing loans scheme in each of the last 5 years. 
What provisions have prevailed for persons taking advantage of the scheme in those years. 
3 ) On how many occasions have funds not been available during each of those years. 
What is the current situation with respect to the availability of funds. 
Will more funds be allocated on 1 July 1978. 
-I join in the debate on this group of Bills- the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. I have an uneasy feeling that perhaps the first two Bills might better have been debated together and the Bill relating to nuclear codes have had a section to itself. Whilst the three Bills are truly environmental and deal with different aspects, it seems to me that the content of the two groups I mentioned is somewhat different. I think perhaps I should advert to the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill first. 
During the course of debate on this and other Bills I have heard the suggestion that the Opposition has been irresponsible in not taking decently the fact that the Government has made a decision on this matter and is not trying to help the Government in what it is doing. I take the opportunity to reaffirm my intransigent attitude to uranium mining at this stage. It is not my intention to go through the variety of reasons that have caused me to form that opinion because they are very wide ranging, including a fear of the use of the material for nuclear weapons. Not the least of these is the problem that we talk about in regard to the safe working and health aspects of the open cut mining and milling of the material. 
It seems to me that in many ways this Bill is a rather dragnet Bill which allows very wide activity to cover all those unforeseen eventualities that people fear may occur. That causes me to wonder just how much is known about the safe working and handling of this material and how much confidence we can have that with our present knowledge we will be able to lay down what is an acceptable code. Many of the aspects of mining and uses of such material, apparently far less dangerous than the radioactive material about which we have been talking, have been shown after some years to have very grave effects. I refer to say the medical group of diseases known as the pneumoconioses. Their causes have been realised only after years of using the materials. There is the recent example of the furore that is going on about the handling of asbestos and its after effects after many years. This Bill is pretty much all-embracing in its definitions. In his second reading speech the 
Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  commented that the Bill will enable governments to ensure that the nuclear industry in Australia is so regulated as to afford the utmost protection to the people and the environment. One wonders, having read the Fox reports and the many comments on them, how much knowledge there is to enable governments to give this utmost protection. Under this Bill the Commonwealth Minister may make the proposed codes and variations available for public comment. Surely there is something in this controversial subject that should be subject to mandatory examination. 
The emphasis in the Bill itself seems to be on carrying out its functions by regulation. It may be said that there are mechanisms in the Bill for the handling and discussion of those regulations. It always worries me that we in government are going further and further towards bypassing Parliament and carrying out most of our 'legislation' by regulation so that it is hard at times to get a look at the overall picture that occurs with this type of subordinate legislation. I think this is well illustrated in this uranium legislation. Government supporters cannot deny that there has been a very hot reaction from State governments and the threat that there would be High Court challenges to the legislation. In fact, the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  made quite a point of the lack of consultation between this Government and State governments in the drafting of the Bills. Forgetting my basic opposition to the question of uranium mining and processing, it is cause for great concern that there has been this lack of consultation. Whilst the purpose of these amendments introduced by the Minister is to exempt the States but not the territories, they seem to me to be symptomatic of the lack of consultation and lack of confidence that I have in this Bill to give effect to a code of practice that is widely accepted and recognised throughout Australia. 
Having said that, I return to the question of the national park itself. As honourable members know the concept of this national park has been going on for many years. The Northern Territory Reserves Board recommended the establishment of such a park in 1965. Four years later the Minister for the Interior reinforced the recommendation and a Cabinet decision in 1973 stated that it would be set up. The first time I was in the area was as a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation which investigated wildlife conservation between 1 969 and 1 972. 1 have been there several times since. From the ecological point of view  it  is a most interesting region. Since those earlier recommendations two factors that have come into consideration have been the recognition of  Aboriginal  land tights and the inquiries that were carried out into that subject and, of course, the discovery of substantial deposits of uranium in the area. That has changed the whole ball game. The area of the proclaimed national park is very substantial. It just about covers the whole of the Alligator River catchment area. But important omissions from the area are, of course, the three mining areas held by Ranger, Pancontinental and Noranda. They are outside the park yet when we look at the map we see that they are physically surrounded by the park. It is semantic nonsense to suggest that they are not part of the park because what  is  done there will affect a great deal of the surrounding area. 
I think it was the second Fox report that quite clearly cast doubts on the measures that would be taken in handling tailings and all the spinoff of processing and whether it is possible to protect the area. There are other problems that will arise as a result of processing. The industrial processes may produce solid, liquid or gas discharges. This is a fairly sensitive environment to any concentrated pollution. Whilst I believe that, given these difficulties, a bold attempt has been made for a proper plan of management, there will also be pressure of numbers of people on the national park produced by the mining processes themselves. Goodness knows, this occurs enough in conservation areas and national park areas where there are no such commercial operations. 
The Environmental Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, which deals with the Alligator Rivers region and the setting up of a scientific structure to monitor events, contains certain deficiencies. For example, reference is made to the Co-ordinating Committee. On the Coordinating Committee are to be representatives of various groups. The Bill states: 
. The Co-ordinating Committee shall consist of- 
the Supervising Scientist; 
b) the Director of National Parks and Wildlife; and 
such other members as are from time to time appointed by the Minister. 
The Minister shall cause to be prepared and kept a list setting out the name of each Department, authority, incorporated company or other body that in his opinion has an interest in uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers Region . . . 
Nominations will be made from those bodies to the Committee. My colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  has pointed out that that representation is not sufficient for the Co-ordinating Committee looking after this area and investigating the problems that may occur. The Government has made a national issue of this question of uranium mining. We are told that it is a great national issue; that it is of great national importance. Surely one should take a wider national view of those who belong to the Co-ordinating Committee and who will have some say in monitoring the effects of what occurs. Why can we not have representatives from, as he has put forward, the Australian Academy of Science, the Australian Conservation Foundation, the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, the Northern Territory Environment Council and similar bodies? These bodies are not in a bureaucratic sense involved in the day-to-day operation of or the results of uranium mining; they are not involved in the industrial sense in the results but they are interested because of their fields of activity. They possess expertise which could be used in this area. They could give an independent assessment of what may occur in this very uncertain area of environmental protection, the very area in which we are not sure of what will occur. 
If it is not truly known what the environmental effects may be, we may face a situation where, put under test, it will be shown that in the middle of the national park mining should not take place at all. We want to be certain that there are at least some voices on the Committee who have no vested interest in seeing that the operation continues. Whilst I have mentioned these three mining areas- we understand that more than one of them will start at the same time- that are in the park yet not in the park, we know that examinations have shown that there are other vast deposits of uranium contained in the area of the Kakadu National Park. We have seen the response to pressure in this case. What are the real protections against the further exploration for and extraction of uranium in that park? Honourable members on this side of the House have no confidence that provision has been made for any protection at all of this great national park. We believe that this lack of protection is in strong contrast to the attitude taken to national parks in other countries where the private enterprise ethic is very high. One recalls the great forests on the west coast of the United States of America from which the timber could well have been used during World War II but in relation to which  President  Rooseveldt himself said: 'They will not be touched; they are there for posterity'. The Americans are very grateful that these areas have been preserved. Yet here, in a uniquely ecological area, one that would attract worldwide interest, we are teetering on the brink of disaster, we have a lack of knowledge of what is in the area and we have a government which is not putting up effective mechanisms to protect the area. 
No, not in the national parks. The attitude in America is entirely different. The Americans would not allow this type of mining. In fact, one knows that they are drawing back from involvement with nuclear power. What was a thriving industry is becoming depressed. In fact, the whole concept of what we will yield after destroying these areas is probably based on a false premise. That will become obvious. So that a little sense can prevail I urge that some consideration be given to the amendments put forward by my colleague, the honourable member for Robertson. 
-In dealing with Appropriation Bills such as this, honourable members have the opportunity either to debate the general theme of a government's budgetary policy or to refer to that policy in terms of their specific expertise, or even in terms of the specific areas which they represent. I think it would be fair to say that the two preceding speakers, the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  and the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  in dealing with their specific areas of expertise, have shown a very knowledgeable attitude to the appropriations. I am not necessarily indicating that I support everything that has been said, but I think their remarks are indicative of the type of discussion which can take place on matters such as this. 
I rather regret that the excellent general critique of government budgetary policy that was made last night by the honourable member for 
Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  on behalf of the Opposition tends to be separated in time from this general debate. I think his comments on the general theme are worthy of greater debate and notice. I advert to some of the things that he said. Honourable members will recall that, in discussing criticism of what the Government's budgetary policy was doing to the economy generally, the honourable member for Gellibrand referred to the question of government spending. He indicated that it was not only the level of expenditure that we were concerned about but the priorities as regards that expenditure. We were reminded of that point by the amendment moved today by the honourable member for Prospect. The amendment states that:  'whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the appropriations contained therein reflect a policy in respect of government spending (a) which is depressing the lack of demand, increasing unemployment and inhibiting economic recovery and (b) which exemplifies the wasteful and inequitable priorities aimed at supporting the well off and economically secure rather than the under-privileged. 
The terms of the amendment deserve further examination. The honourable member for Gellibrand told the House that the Government could take some consolation from two of the occurrences. He accepted that the rate of inflation had been substantially reduced by the budgetary policy being followed by the Government. He also accepted that the amount of private investment had increased substantially. But, in looking at that increase in private investment, he sounded a warning that whilst private investment would be stimulated by factors such as the 40 per cent investment allowance and other favourable taxation provisions, all these stimuli for private investment were, by their very nature, capital intensive. So, at a time when the economy is stagnant, there is encouragement to the capital intensive sphere. But this does not create jobs and so does not give the real stimulus that is needed. This is what we are about in our criticism of the Government's budgetary strategy. 
The Government, by its attitudes to public spending and other matters, must accept full responsibility for the stagnant nature of the Australian economy. It acts as though all cuts in public expenditure are good. The honourable member for Gellibrand gave many examples of such cutbacks, but one I wish to follow up is the cutback in the amount of money available for apprenticeship training- over $4m. One must ask: Is this good? What will flow from it? It means that young people seeking apprenticeships in this stagnant economy are unable to find them. There is no real stimulus for increased opportunities for apprenticeships. Following on that, not only is there unemployment of young people, but also is there the prospect in a very short time of a lack of skilled tradesmen in many areas. So, the whole effect flows on. There is no doubt that, overall, the drastic cuts in public expenditure have brought about a drastic cut in the rate of growth in this country. 
The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  in introducing Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1977-78, made reference to some increased allocations in the employment field. For example, he said: 
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations requires an additional $30. 7m to meet an increase in payments to employers and trainees under the National Employment and Training scheme. 
The Minister also said that an extra $2.1m was needed for the Community Youth Support Program. These two schemes indicate the concern on this side of the House because they involve employment and young people. However, I do not propose to criticise the various schemes that are covered by these Bills. I have had words to say about them on other occasions. 
Let us look at what the stagnant economy that this Government has caused is doing to the people in this sphere. I refer to a local newspaper group whose circulation is in the Scullin electorate and in surrounding electorates. Back in February-March, that newspaper started a series of articles which were headed 'A Losing Battle'. It was a description used in connection with some of the young people whom some Government supporters label 'dole bludgers'. It was the story of their experience when seeking employment. That newspaper made an appeal to local employers on behalf of these young people. Goodness knows, enough of those local employers are always saying in their clubs over a drink that they have many vacant positions but that they cannot get people to fill them. How genuine is that? I shall quote from that article headed 'A Losing Battle' in the  Preston Post  of 29 March. That newspaper explains, in its article, that it introduced this series four weeks ago to help outofwork teenagers to gain employment, but that it has had a poor response from employers. It explains further that some of these young people have been trying for jobs continually for more than 12 months. What sort of young people are they? This is how Zelco Sambolec of Thomastown, a young boy of 17 years of age, views unemployment: 
You have no dreams or aspirations left when you are unemployed. They all go down the drain. 
He wants to become a hairdressing apprentice. He said: 
I feel my life is at a standstill and society is passing me by . I don't really care what I do as long as I have a job. . . . I feel as if I am wasting my life. 
He has been unemployed for five months and he has applied for many jobs. The newspaper article then refers to a girl aged 1 7. It reads: 
She has applied for more than 70 jobs and only strong emotional support from her family and the hope that sooner or later she must get a job has kept her going. 
She is going to job interviews only to be told she does not have enough experience or is too young. 'How are you supposed to get experience when you are straight out of school ', she said. 
She completed a receptionists ' course after leaving school and would like a job in that field. 
The article refers to a lad aged 1 6, and it reads: 
He has been unemployed for 12 months but says an optimistic attitude has kept him going. 
He has applied for more than 100 jobs without success but keeps trying because he hopes the next one may prove fruitful . . . 'I don't like getting money for nothing. I prefer to stay independent and have not applied for unemployment benefits'. 
What was the response of local employers to this article? In the same newspaper of 4 April 1978 there appeared under the heading ' "Battle" is lost' this small paragraph: 
Lack of support by employers has forced us to drop the series, A Losing Battle. 
I think that is the answer to allegations of dole bludging and it gives a fair example of what we are doing to the young people in the community by depressing the economy. Let me cite another example. A 16-year-old female was apprenticed to a ladies' hairdresser for a few weeks at the beginning of this year. Shortly after she commenced the hairdressing salon was sold and she was unable to continue there as an apprentice.  Her  apprenticeship required her to attend a technical college for a day a week. So in the hope that she would find another position as a hairdressing apprentice she continued to attend the technical college for a day a week. In the meantime she applied for a social security benefit and such is the encouragement given to her that this Government told her that because she spent a day at technical college during the week she was not eligible for a social security benefit. What does that do to young people who are seeking to learn skills? 
What do the recent articles that have been run in both the Melbourne and Sydney Press in regard to job opportunities for the young do to these people? Yesterday in the  Age  there was a report not so much on the unemployed but those whom unemployment and homelessness have made unemployable. The article emphasises the point that it is referring not to the better known homeless, alcoholic skid row individuals but to a new group in society of young people up to the age of 20 years who survive in a sub-world of crime, prostitution, alcoholism, drug addiction and so on. It is obvious to many organisations that the numbers in this area of unemployment are increasing. The article reads: 
Their numbers have been increasing rapidly over the past two or three years and welfare workers believe that situation will continue to deteriorate as unemployment worsens. 
How effective are programs to reduce the inflation rate and to increase private investment when the cost in human lives is leading to this sort of situation? One of the social workers involved in the problem of unemployment said: 'Young people have no idea of how to live in modern Australian society if they have no job'. This is a criticism of the lack of availability of employment, and there is another factor to be considered. That social worker said: 
There is nothing in our education system about how to survive in an unemployment society; or how to live and relate to adults in such a society, . . . 
I believe that we must start to think of the social cost of the programs that we are running and the results they will bring for the future. The examples I have given indicate that the present programs, despite the increased expenditure, are ineffective. One of the most effective methods is to put some stimulus into the economy so that there is not this dreadful round of stagnation in the economy. It may well be that because of advanced technology some stagnation will occur, and I accept that, but it does not excuse governments for not planning for that sector or for not trying to construct an economy that has some vibrancy in it instead of an economy which is artificially depressed. 
Let me turn to another field- a field I know fairly well, in the area of health- and that is the matter of the accommodation of geriatric patients. It was only in January of last year that we had a report from a committee on the care of the aged and infirm which suggested some innovations. I refer to a project in my electorate to illustrate how government policies have depressed it. It is the Bundoora geriatric complex. As early as 1 967-68 the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission highlighted the acute shortage of geriatric beds and said that there had to be at least two major geriatric hospitals in the Melbourne Metropolitan area, one of which should be in the northern metropolitan area. Following that statement a 40-odd acre site was acquired locally for a hospital. A provisional committee was set up in August 1973 with encouragement from the then Labor Government. There was a grant of $30,000 for a philosophic brief on this institution. I think that a proper philosophic brief was produced. The fundamental aim of the complex would be to care for each patient in accordance with individual needs while maintaining personal dignity and sense of identity, independence, involvement with and contribution to society and security, freedom from fear and loneliness. 
When the committee was established a good deal of expertise was gathered together. The site was available. A number of essential services were put in but in March this year the axe fell. There were no funds. The project ground to a halt. I might add that since then it has been suggested that there will be $ 1 m available but it is in the sweet by and by and no one will say when. At a stage when documentation on the project should be well under way, there is no way without finance for the work which has already been commenced to be continued. That work will have to wind down. So it means that the need for such an institution in that area has been acknowledged for 10 years. A project has been started but, because of the restrictive types of priorities which this Government has set and which pass down to the State governments, that project will not progress further for some time although substantial work already has been carried out. This in itself is wasteful. What happens to those people who 10 years ago needed that institution? What happens to those people for whom money already has been spent on starting a project for which more money will be required to start it again? I should like to go into this subject in more detail but the time I have available to speak in this debate is drawing to a close. I say to the Government: It is no use cutting down public expenditure unless it gets its sense of priorities right in regard to what it is trying to do. We criticise not only the level of expenditure but also the sort of crazy level of priorities that the Government has fixed for the Australian people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 64th Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference held at Sofia, between 21 and 30 September 1977. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
In making a statement on the report, I shall keep my remarks brief. However, it is not my belief that the House should deal with the report in this way. I believe that there should be quite a full debate on the matters contained in the report. 
In recent years, there has been increased Australian participation in the affairs of the InterParliamentary Union. Honourable members will recall that the former honourable member for Kalgoorlie,  Mr Collard,  was a member of the executive of the IPU.  Senator Harold  Young has just completed the remainder of that term on the Executive. 
I apologise to the honourable member for Bendigo. He was a member for a brief time until his other duties took him away. Another factor is that at least two of the delegatesone from each side of the Parliamentwill continue to be delegates for the life of the Parliament. This gives an opportunity for continuity of discussion with delegations from other countries. Australia has also been invited to have discussions with members of what is known as the Nine Plus, which represents the Western nations. There is a continuing dialogue there. 
Further, in contrast to the past, the delegation now has a continuing adviser from the Department of Foreign Affairs, not just a Department of Foreign Affairs adviser who comes from one of the posts near to where the conference is held. For the last three or four years, we have had  Dr Ron  Howard from the Department of Foreign Affairs as the adviser to the delegation. Members of the delegation to the IPU Conference will confirm what a great help this has been not only from the point.of view of continuity, but from the point of view of the capabilities of the particular officer appointed to that post. 
The fact of the matter is that at this conference, as at the meeting in Canberra early last year, the issues debated are those issues that parliamentarians from parliaments throughout the world believe are the important ones to debate. Yet we send our delegations to this conference, allow them to take part in the debate and then do not analyse the resulting resolutions that come out of that conference. At Sofia there was a general debate, a lot of which was devoted to disarmament, a subject with a great degree of importance this year because of the special session of the United Nations General Assembly to be held on that subject. There were debates on the developing economic order, law of the sea, water and disposal of wastes, which is important to so many developing countries, the behaviour of the Israeli authorities in the occupied Arab territories and on the situation in South Africa. Majority decisions were reached on all those subjects. As those majority decisions are reported in the report from the Inter-Parliamentary Union conference, this Parliament should recognise the context of an Inter-Parliamentary Union with representatives from parliaments throughout the world, and decide to debate those resolutions to see what attitude we should take. 
In the conduct of the Australian delegation one finds that although members of all parties are present, away from the strutting and posturing of the parliamentary stage, fellow members of Parliament on the other side of the chamber who here appear to have horns and a tail, are able to discuss in a delegation matters on a rational basis. On two of the matters that were before the conference, that relating to the IsraelArab conflict and on the question of South Africa, the Australian delegation was divided. However, it was a division without heat. I pay tribute to the leadership  Senator Harold  Young gave to the delegation. He allowed all these matters to be discussed throughout the conference so that when Australia made its decision on how its votes would be cast on these issues it had been made after a rational discussion among the members, a full understanding of the nature of the different views and an acceptance of the right to differ. Because there was a difference perhaps on just those two items they should be the ones to which we should be directing our principal attention. 
There is a further matter that was raised at the Inter-Parliamentary Union to which we believe as a delegation the Parliament should pay more attention. That is the question of the violation of human rights of parliamentarians in other countries. Initially Australia took some initiative in having a committee set up on this matter. A former Argentinian member of Parliament,  Senator Yrigoyen,  was present at the conference as a direct result of the representations that had been made by the IPU on the violation of his human rights and his imprisonment. There are a number of other cases from a variety of countries and we, as Australian parliamentarians, should take note of the reports of that committee of the IPU and use our Parliament and our own Foreign Affairs Department to take action to assist in the correction of these violations of human rights. Some visits were associated with the IPU conference. Members of the delegation attended the Parliament of Europe. That provided a very fruitful discussion because we obtained information and knowledge of attitudes that we had not obtained before. As an Australian delegation we visited Yugoslavia. That visit was important because of the large number of new settlers from that country who are coming to Australia. It gave us an understanding of the social system that is developing in that country. 
I thank my fellow members of the delegation for their company at this conference, for the intelligent discussion we were able to have and for the co-operative way in which they worked. I pay particular tribute to the leader of the delegation,  Senator Young,  and I express my thanks to  Mr Alan  Cumming-Thom from the Senate staff who ably performed the duties of assisting the delegation with support services. 
-I find myself in the rather unusual position of leading for the Opposition on these Bills but perhaps that will be explained when I indicate at the outset that neither the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill nor the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill will be opposed by the Opposition. But, in so saying, this does not indicate the Opposition's approval of either the Government's budgetary policy or its attitudes to education generally. However, we accept that the Government has put forward its policy and that these Bills follow the precedent that has been followed in the last few years in making adjustments for cost increases, in this case, to December 1977 and to increase the grants for 1 978 which will be subject to further adjustment later. So, even with these adjustments, it is the same basic government education program. 
Having said that we do not oppose these Bills, I suppose that in many ways in this debate we are letting the Government off by not looking at its present performance. I think this debate will give us the opportunity to project what the educational needs are and what course will be followed. I shall concentrate most of my remarks on the schools area. The Bills do illustrate the high degree of involvement of the Australian Government in education funding. Funding to schools in 1977 was $602.8m. The present commitment for 1978 is $626. 7m. In the ternary education area the amounts are greater. In 1977 the amount of funding was $561. 8m for universities, $439.5m for colleges of advanced education and $85.4m for technical and further education. The commitment for 1978 is $620.2m for universities, $460. 8m for colleges of advanced education and $10 1.2m for technical and further education. If we look at this degree of involvement, relative to the options open to an Australian government in the education field, it is obvious that one of the options open to the Government is certainly not withdrawal from education financing. Indeed it would be doubtful whether holding the amounts expended at the present level would be acceptable to the Australian electorate as a whole. 
I do not need to dwell on the fact that this heavy commitment for education spending has developed since 1973 and was based on the initiatives of the then Labor Government. The development of the various commissions evolved from those initiatives. But education, in itself, is pretty lively and changeable. It is a matter that requires constant review and examination, not just on the basis of the funds that are to go to it, but on the basis of a changing society. This type of examination is an appropriate function for the various commissions to carry out. But, in doing so, there must be some responsibility by the commissions to Parliament and to government. Along with this, there goes the responsibility of government not to impose unreal limits on the examinations carried out by the commissions. Regrettably, with the types of guidelines that have been laid down, we believe that the present Government has set some unreal limits on the commissions. 
Honourable members will recall that one of the concepts given to the original Interim Schools Commission was that of needs. We recall how well that commission moved to identify and categorise those needs. I am prepared to accept that an examination of this concept of need is necessary from time to time, in the light of experience with the programs. If we are to preserve this concept of need, the Government itself must take heed of the Schools Commission. The Schools Commission referred to this point in its report of April of this year. I invite honourable members to look at paragraph 10.3 of that report which reads: 
The Commission does not believe 'need' is a concept separate from the social and economic context in which Australia's schools operate: need has therefore to be judged in the light of the general capacity of Australia to provide adequate resources for its schools. On the other hand need does not vary with each year's budget difficulties. A position must be found which while respecting short-term budgetary difficulties does allow some progress to be made towards meeting needs which the Commission believes to be within the capacity of the Government to finance if it so wishes. 
The Opposition sees this sort of expression as at least a minimum requirement. We believe that the Government should take the advice of its expert body and at least satisfy its suggested minimum. If we examine the main areas in the Commission's report, we find under the heading General recurrent: government', the Commission recommends that an essential course of action is 'to fix government general funds at a constant proportion of the target standard costs'. At the moment this proportion is 7.5 per cent. If that is to be maintained, there is generated a need for funds of the following order $ 183.02m in 1979, $183.53m in 1980, and $182.76m in 1981. As honourable members are aware, under the heading 'General recurrent: nongovernment', the Commission suggested a modified subsidy scheme. It has varied the categorisation of the schools and the type of subsidy that is to be paid. 
It is not my intention in this debate to refer to the concept of this modified subsidy scheme but I do wish to look of what that modified subsidy scheme produces if projected increases are necessary. The cost in 1978 is predicted to be $ 186.8m. Under the new scheme, the costs are estimated to be: $202.90m in 1979, $214.10m in 1980, and $224.20m in 1981. Accepting the argument about modified subsidy, we see that substantial increases are required in that area. It appears that the need is greatest in the capital grant area. Indeed, the Commission was moved to report that the total needs in the capital grant for government schools were far in excess of what could be reasonably expected for the triennium. When the Commission examined the capital funding for non-government schools it found the position just as acute. 
There are a number of factors that lead to the need for capital funding. We know that our community is in a constant state of movement. We see development in various rural and urban areas. Although the need for recurrent grants might be less in some of the older areas, there is the constant pull for capital grants in other areas. For the Government area the Commission has recommended that a 4 per cent per annum increase is necessary. In the second category, that of the non-government schools, it has recommended a 5 per cent increase. Table 10.1 of the report shows the proposed financial allocations for the 1979-81 triennium compared with actual allocations for this year. Rather than detail these allocations I seek leave to incorporate the table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="109131197805103_56_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197805103_57_2.jpg"></graphic>

-The Government has imposed guidelines which, if applied in the same way, will lead to a substantial shortfall in these categories. Rather than read to the House the guidelines I seek leave to incorporate them in  Hansard m  the form of table 10.2 from the Commission's report. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows: 


<graphic href="109131197805103_57_3.jpg"></graphic>

-The two tables help to illustrate the problem that we have. As I mentioned previously, the growth rates were recommended. In the final analysis the Commission recommended a growth rate of 5 per cent in 1 979, 4 per cent in 1980 and 3.3 per cent in 1981 in funds allocated to government programs for the financing of government and non-government schools in the 1 979-8 1 triennium. That arises out of the total concept illustrated in those tables. This may appear repetitive as it is already contained in the Commission's report. However, honourable members will recall that at the time the guidelines were laid down, claims and complaints were made by the Opposition that these guidelines would restrict and even cause loss of the initiatives in education, and that progress would grind to a halt. I think it fair to say, not on the basis of figures or arguments produced by the Opposition but on the figures of an independent commission, that these claims are proved. 
The Government just cannot pigeonhole this report and make no comment until the Budget. It must indicate now what its attitude will be in the education field. Will it allow the expenditure just to run along with no satisfaction of the outstanding needs? If it does so, how will it equate the ultimate loss and cost to the community because of this program in future years with the savings in expenditure now? Earlier I referred to the question of a continuing examination of educational needs in the light of changing society. Yesterday in another debate I directed attention to this by referring to the following statement by a social worker: 
There is nothing in our education system about how to survive in an unemployment society: or how to live and relate to adults in such a society, . . . 
I referred further to the fact that the stimuli being given to capital intensive areas- and even technological advances- were worsening this particular aspect. This is the kind of societal change that contributes to the need for continuing review. Many other factors contribute to this need. The patterns of migration into this country over recent years have brought about many changes in our society. Of course, they have added many other tasks to our education system. I represent an electorate with a very high migrant concentration. It is not uncommon to have as many as three-quarters of the number of children attending the schools who have come from non-English speaking countries. One has the problem of language and multiple language difficulties. 
There are real problems of providing extra attention and procedures to be able to handle the problems that come from this language block. 
In trying to solve the problem we do not want to lose sight of the desirable effect of retaining the multi-lingual facility for such children. There is further social change in that we find families with two working parents. Also there is an increase in the number of single parent homes. The changing complexion of the news media which was discussed in the previous debate, has brought with it educational problems. These arise because of the types of values and points of view it imposes. So with these changing values and attitudes there is a constant challenge to the nature of the curriculum and teaching and to the very organisation of our education system. The answers to these problems are by no means easy and absolute. There are a variety of ways in which solutions can be sought. The special projects program affords an opportunity to provide some answers. This is recognised as one of the programs for which a reasonably substantial increase in expenditure in the next triennium is recommended. I have watched with interest the effects of this program along with other disadvantaged schools' programs in the schools in my electorate. The benefit they obtain is immeasurable. However, once these programs are started it is essential that there be a certainty that funds will be available for a follow-through to some degree of completion. 
The feedback I get on the ground on these sorts of programs is that under the guidelines set by this Government and the attitude it takes there is a lack of confidence within the community and within the educational field itself that this continuance will occur. 
I have heard honourable members on the other side of the House often say that the Opposition believes in a society where everyone is equal and you are all levelled down to the one mould. This, of course, is a completely false proposition. What we are talking about is a society which gives equality of opportunity to each individual- equality of opportunity to develop one's talents and to compete with one's fellows. Basically if we do not have this equality of opportunity in the educational field we fall down very badly indeed. 
This special projects program takes a very small part of the funds spent on education, yet the program covers quite a wide variety of projects. I can do no better than to quote from the report on the type of programs that are carried out. It reads: 
Their main focus is on more effective learning in basic curriculum areas, but they also include organisational changes in schools, radical departures from traditional learning patterns such as cross age tutoring, the extension of the learning environment through outdoor education, field stations and work experience, improved community/school liaison and adventurous extensions of the drama, music, dance and art experience of students. Educational improvement depends not just on attempts to change all in uniform ways, but on local adaptation, on 'lighthouse' developments which extend the vision of others, and on individual initiative. 
So there is a great variety of steps that can be taken and a good deal of testing that can be done for changes in society. Sometimes I wonder when I have a look at these changes whether some of the local initiatives should not include some of the old traditional teaching methods, particularly in the three Rs, because these are areas in which there seems to be a great failing. Children completing secondary school cannot do simple sums. Often they complete secondary school without proper reading capabilities and even graduate from university without being able to write proper essays as far as spelling, English and so on are concerned. One wonders whether the abandonment completely of some of the old traditional alphabetical and mathematical training has not been the cause of this state of affairs. Perhaps we will see a special projects program running at a primary school in the concept of the teaching method that was used 30 or 40 years ago. 
Along with the special projects program there has been the disadvantaged schools project. It has been important to be able to identify disadvantaged schools as was -done at a very early stage of the Commission's operations. These initiatives were in education, but once again we face the problem of a commitment by government to continue this program to get schools up to acceptable levels. By and large it must be a long term project. It is not a program that can survive in an atmosphere of uncertain continued funding and it is not a program that cannot be allowed to take on new institutions in order to raise the standard. I think all these matters and many others have been put in the Schools Commission report. 
As I said at the commencement of my remarks on these Bills, we are not opposed to them. We feel that there is more value at the moment in looking forward to the discussions of the needs of the schools system than in criticising what has happened in the last few years. We believe there are grave problems. We believe that the guidelines have been too stringent. We believe that the difficulties of education have been exacerbated by what is happening in the economic circumstances of Australia generally. That is why we say the Government should make an early commitment to or give an early indication of its proposals in education. We on this side of the House would be very suspicious whether those indications and those attitudes would be satisfactory. 
It is not my intention to deal with the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill. It is another area in which I believe there must be a good deal of examination and a good deal of reassessment of values and our ideas. There is no doubt that at the moment the greater concentration should be on technical and further education. One wonders whether the formal university education has not been pushed to its very limit in the numbers that are admitted, and I believe that we should examine the balance that is there. But at the moment it is a matter of forward looking in both areas because unless firm decisions are made, initiatives are taken and there is some willingness on the part of the Government to increase public expenditure we will be paying a very high cost in a few years to come. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the maximum sum provided for equipment per child place in a child care centre under the Child Care Act. 
How long has the amount been fixed at this level. 
Has the amount provided been sufficient to meet the total equipment costs of centres constructed within the last 3 years. 
Has the Minister any information to indicate that the standard of equipment installed at new centres is being reduced as a result of the fixed limit on equipment subsidy. 
When will the present level of subsidy for this equipment be reviewed. 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and arises from a request made to me this morning. It refers to the disappearance of an Australian citizen, Kevin Wilson, from the ship  Felix Dzerzhinsky  in the vicinity of Noumea last Wednesday. What are the details of the search operations in respect of the missing man? Is it a fact that there is a large number of small uninhabitated islands capable of supporting life in the vicinity of where he disappeared? If so, has a search been made of those islands? 
-by leave-I do not intend to speak at length on this report. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  as  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation has summed up the various aspects that we dealt with and the recommendations we have made. The particular area we looked at, the effect of Commonwealth Government decisions on the urban environment, would be of interest to most members of the House. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  initiated this inquiry when he was a member of the Committee. A great deal of careful consideration was given to the sorts of guidelines that we should include in the terms of reference. I am sure that my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  would want the House to have an opportunity to debate this report and what flows from it. He was one of those who added so much stimulus to the discussion on urban and regional development in the Parliament. 
I think all honourable members must take note of this report. They should see some of the things that the examination has pointed out. Those in charge of the business of the House must make sure that there is further debate on the matter. I know that an undertaking has been given that six months after a committee has reported the responsible Minister will have to say what action is being taken. In relation to this report I think it is far more important that the House have some discussion before such a statement is made. I am sure that a lot of input could be made by people who were not intimately connected with the inquiry. 
What became obvious in the inquiry were the major changes in the urban environment, with the location of buildings, the people working in those buildings, their modes of transport and so on. When we use the term ' environment ' we tend to get stuck on the green aspects of the environment instead of thinking of all the other social and economic factors in the environment. The effects of decisions by the Commonwealth Government were major. When we examined what the various departments were doing we found that in a lot of cases they had the machinery for an examination, but what was missing was a great deal of perception of what the issue involved and a great lack of sensitivity about human beings and all levels of government. If the inquiry has done nothing more, I think it has drawn attention to that aspect of Commonwealth Government decisions. 
I think this is a subject that may need review from time to time by a committee of this type. 
We should check some of the areas which were not covered and some areas on which recommendations were made. I point out to the House that in carrying out this inquiry we dealt only with the public sector. After looking at the public sector one can readily realise the need there is to examine the role of the private sector and its effect on the urban environment. We should examine whether decisions for major projects, whether they be industrial, commercial or residental. are made with full knowledge of their ultimate effect on the urban environment. Let us not feel self-satisfied because we have dealt with the public sector. It has shown up so many pimples and bumps that we ought to consider how far we can look into the private sector and its decisions which affect the urban environment. 
I think it is unfortunate that an inquiry such as this has to be broken by elections. With evidence that is fairly detailed and not always easy to digest it is important to have a continuity of membership. I believe that those new members who joined the Committee towards the end of the inquiry did a good job in being able to appreciate what had been put forward and in dealing with it. That they were able to catch up was a tribute to the staff of the Committee. I urge the Government to devise a mechanism so that the House can debate an important report such as this before decisions are made. We could debate whether we should concentrate on the private sector or whether there are mechanisms on which we ought to insist in the private sector. 
-The honourable member should not reflect on another member. 
The purpose of this Bill is to try to do something to prevent an increase in the incidence of skin cancer in Australia. As with other cancercausing agents, the sun has a cumulative effect. We do not get skin cancer from one long exposure to the sun but rather from years of repeated exposure. The amount of natural pigmentation in the skin determines how vulnerable we may be to the damaging effects of sunlight. The skin pigment, melanin, absorbs the sun's ultraviolet rays and partially prevents this radiation from reaching the cell layers where skin cancers arise. Thus, black-skinned people are less likely to develop sun-caused skin cancer than are white-skinned persons. We rarely see Aborigines with skin cancer. They may have other diseases but they do not seem to get skin cancer. Persons of northern European ancestry, especially the Irish, the Scots- there are a number of members with Irish and Scottish ancestry in this Houseand Scandinavians are the most susceptible to skin cancer. It seems to be the pigmentation in their skin which makes them most susceptible. Generally, persons with fair, ruddy or sandy complexions are the sun's most likely victims, but anybody who chronically overdoes exposure to sunlight is liable to get skin cancer. 
However, there are those who either choose to be or must be out in the sun for long periods and this is particularly so in country area. The farming community is sensible because it protects itself from over-exposure by its clothing, such as large-brimmed hats. I have heard it said that the size of the brim of a farmer's hat is in inverse proportion to the amount of his bank overdraft. In other words, if he has a small brim he has a large bank overdraft, and if he has a large brim he has a small bank overdraft. The largebrimmed/small bank overdraft man protects himself from skin cancer and is doing a good job of it. There are effective agents which people in country areas and certain people in city areas use to block out areas of exposed skin from the sun's rays. However, there are other methods of blocking out the sun's rays and one is the sunscreening process which is what this Bill is all about. It is unfortunate that if we try to select a sunscreening agent we will find a bewildering array of creams, lotions, oils and sprays most of which, it is true, are valueless in screening out the sun's damaging rays. Most commercial suntan lotions, creams and sprays are useless against skin cancer because they allow the ultra-violet rays to reach the skin; otherwise people would not tan at all. They are an inadequate protection against skin cancer. The best protection is obtained through the use of agents called sun screens. The purpose of the Bill, provided that various sun screens fall within certain criteria, is to eliminate the sales tax on those particular products. As I have said, white Australian have the highest incidence of skin cancer in the world. I suppose one could say that a good tan is socially desirable. One honourable member, judging from the sun tan he has and has maintained in the winter, must use either a special type of preparation to induce colour to his skin or sun tan under an artificial lighting system. It does him credit- he certainly looks the part. I suppose that a good sun tan is socially desirable but it is not a good investment for future good health or future good looks. It will protect one, to a certain extent, from the discomfort of sunburn but health workers warn that exposure of the skin to solar ultra-violet radiation has been firmly established as the main cause of skin cancer. 
It is important that I draw to the attention of honourable members some of the technical details of sun screen preparations. The sun's ultraviolet radiation which reaches us has two components: The shorter wave length is known as UVB. Those waves are mainly responsible for burning. The longer waves are known as UVA. They produce a darkening of the pigment which is already in the skin but they do not usually initiate the production of new pigment. To avoid sunburn, or to lengthen the time one can remain in the sun before developing sunburn, one should use a sunburn preparation which blocks out as much UVB as possible. I suppose I could now be classed as starting to advertise effective sun screen lotions. I have had the opportunity to read a good consumers' bulletin called  Choice.  In a table in that publication various sun screen preparations are listed in groups as recommended in the latest report from the Commonwealth Department of Health. The table is based on testing done at the University of Queensland, by doctors Groves and Robertson. It is interesting to see, when one looks at the table- I shall not ask for it to be incorporated in  Hansard  because it is too voluminous- how many hundreds of sun screen or tanning preparations there are and how many, after testing done at the Commonwealth Department of Health, have been found to be innocuous or useless. In other words, they are purely cosmetic preparations. 
If the skin lacks the ability to tan, there is at the present time no known agent that is capable of inducing a protective tan. A tan develops through normal mechanisms of the body and its appearance is neither speeded up nor induced by any sun screen preparation. So, with all the guff that one reads about the effects of various preparations, they are purely cosmetic. It is all codswallop, if I may use that word. I suggest to honourable members and to the Government that what is needed is a far greater stimulus to draw the attention of the Australian people to the dangers of skin cancer. Though the step the Government has taken in eliminating sales tax on certain items of skin cream preparations is a step in the right direction, I do not think it is the ultimate. If one sees the effects of skin cancer, particularly on the aged- people who live in the country areas who are susceptible to it- it is a horrifying sight. It is the in thing these days to have advertising campaigns on the effects of smoking on lung cancer. I suggest that more people in Australia are affected by skin cancer, due to our climate, than are affected by lung cancer. I do not know what the death ratios are but I suggest that in Australia there is just as much a case for the Government- not necessarily through the Treasurer, possibly through the Minister for Health- to make a far greater effort to draw to the attention of the people of Australia the dangers of over-exposure to the sun. I commend the Government for this first step which it has taken in respect of this Bill, in the elimination of sales tax on these sun screen preparations. I hope and trust that in the future the Government will do something in other ways to bring the dangers before the people. 
A matter has been drawn to my attention. Possibly, bearing in mind the climate of Australia, this matter should be considered. There is no Chair within universities in Australia which deals with skin complaints. That is something that the Government might consider. It may have a look at creating a Chair at one of the universities to deal with skin complaints which are prevalent in Australia. Possibly it could be within one of the medical schools. 
I draw the attention of the Government also to the whole matter of sales tax. It is a regressive tax. I should like the stage to be reached in which there is only one type of taxation in Australiaincome tax based on the capacity to pay. Sales tax is not based on the capacity of a person to pay. Each and every person pays the same rate of sales tax, irrespective of income. That is something to which attention should be given. I admit that the Labor Party did not do it when it held office but it was considering it in its almost three short years in office. The Labor Government was considering the elimination of sales tax altogether and the replacement of it by one simple tax, a progressive income tax. Sales tax is regressive. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. Does Dillingham Constructions have a contract to erect a $14m building for the Department of Defence at Victoria Barracks in Melbourne? Is it a fact that this contract was let without going to tender? Further, were tenders called for a computer to be installed in the building? If so, what companies tendered and which company was the successful tenderer? 
-In June of this year I visited Libya and Lebanon as a member of a delegation from the Australian Labor movement. We visited Libya at the invitation of the Libyan Government, and in both countries we were guests of the Libyan Government. I understand that such an invitation will be extended in future to members of all parties. This visit seems to have caused some concern amongst sections of the community and various stories have circulated. It culminated recently in Douglas Wilkie in the Melbourne  Sun  using the visit as an apologia for the existence of Croatian terrorists in Australia. So I think that we should put this matter straight. 
The fact is that on the trip none of the members visited any place or talked with any person who was proscribed by our political party, the Australian Labor Party, by the Australian Government or by the United Nations. In Libya we found a country where the people had been under Ottoman oppression for many years and then Italian oppression. After World War II the country was seen as an Italian colony, and it has been under the charge of both the United Kingdom and America. Only in the last nine years has this nation had control of its finances and tried to develop, and it seems to be making progress with the oil revenues it is getting. 
Not only members of the Labor movement made this visit. The Honourable Ian Smith, the Victorian Minister for Agriculture, and his wife and the Honourable Charles Hider, a Liberal member of the Upper House in Victoria, and his wife were there. There are teams sponsored by the Western Australian and South Australian governments working in agricultural areas there. So all in all snide remarks about that aspect of the visit should not hold any water. It should be a place for which we should try to do more. 
Lebanon is a country to which we all should pay more attention because of the turmoil and risk for the world which exist there as a result of the local problems, the Lebanese civil war and the Palestinian problem. We talked to representatives of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. In particular we talked to George Habash and officers of the Popular Front for the Liberation of 
Palestine. They discussed the Middle East problem with us. They stated very clearly their views on the Middle East problem from the point of view both of the Palestinian factions themselves and what they saw as the political problems there. They are, after ali, a Marxist- Leninist group and see the matter not entirely as a clash of nationalities but as a political struggle. They enabled us to visit camps and other features of interest and were concerned to secure our safety in what is a very turbulent area. 
On visiting camps both in Beirut and near Tyre we met the popular committees who help to run those camps. These are made up of representatives of all the factions which comprise the PLO and of independents from those camps. We were able to get information on how the camps were organised, the problems of disease and nutrition, their attempts to develop kindergartens and so on. I make no apology for the fact that we visited that area to try to see that side of the problem. Whilst people may debate the rights and wrongs of the political situation in relation to these people, there is no doubt about the people in the camps- one can only admire them for their determination, discipline, general outlook and the way they have tried to help themselves under difficult circumstances. 
It is common in a Grievance Debate to raise matters that cause concern to one's electors. There are many electors of Macedonian origin in the Scullin electorate. What was Macedonia is now contained in Greece, Yugoslavia and Bulgaria. In Bulgaria, 
Macedonians are not recognised in census statistics and a program of planned and forced relocation of Macedonians to other areas of Bulgaria is progressing. Recently a number of alleged Croat terrorists were arrested undergoing alleged terrorist training. No one is surprised that this occurred. However, a Press report in the Melbourne  Age  of 4 September concerning the arrests stated that the Commonwealth Police were in possession of 169 names of Croat and Macedonian terrorists. Macedonians in my electorate have been distressed by the report. They have been loyal and industrious migrants while still retaining a love for the customs, history and traditions of their old homeland. They find it abhorrent that it is suggested that any of thenmembers are associated in any way with a Ustasha-type movement. They assure me that there is no such terrorist movement among them. The Government should quell this slur on loyal Australians of Macedonian origin by denying the statement or publishing the alleged list. 
I turn now to a matter affecting one of our neighbouring countries- Singapore. Constituents have approached me regarding political detainees in that country. They believe that Australia should have enough influence with that country to apply diplomatic and moral pressures to improve the situation. I have a copy of a letter from relatives of certain political detainees in Singapore which outlines the present situation there. It is dated 5 August 1978. So it is recent. It is accompanied by a note asking for assistance signed by Grace Poh, wife of  Dr Poh  Soo Kai, and Beatrice T. M. Chen, wife of  Dr Lim  Hock Siew, both of whom are medical practitioners and political detainees. I seek leave to have a copy of the letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 5th August 1978 
Singapore 
Dear Friend, 
We are the families and relatives of political detainees in Singapore, many of whom have been detained without trial for 10 to 15 years. They include Said Zahari (a journalist), Drs Poh Soo Kai and Lim Hock Siew ( both medical practitioners), Ho Piao (a trade union leader), Lee Tse Tong (a trade union leader and former assemblyman), Chia Thye Po (a former assemblyman), Chua Seh Kui (a student) and many others. 
We write to bring to the attention of your organisation the fact that the Lee Kuan Yew government in Singapore has lately intensified its oppression and ill-treatment of political detainees, and to appeal for moral support for the struggle for justice and human rights of political detainees in Singapore. 
The Internal Security Act permits the Singapore government to imprison any political dissident without charge or trial for indefinite periods. Under Singapore's law, a person sentenced to life imprisonment by a court of law after trial and conviction is required to serve only 13 years and 4 months. But political detainees imprisoned without trial continue to be imprisoned even after15  years.  The Singapore government's policy is to imprison a political dissident indefinitely to coerce him to renounce his political convictions and to publicly help the government to justify his own imprisonment. Various oppressive and persecutionary measures are meted out to political detainees to wear down their resistance. The Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, has virtually admitted in public that political detainees in Singapore are being subjected to torture. It was reported in the Straits Times on 20th February 1978 that, to a query by a reporter from the Far Eastern Economic Review on whether security authorities in Singapore use technics like questioning naked or lightly clothed suspects in very cold airconditioned room forlong periods, keeping them in solitary confinement, denying them adequate sleep, and dousing them with cold water, Lee Kuan Yew's reply was: 'all interrogations must wear down the resistance of these persons by sustained psychological pressure, including physical fatigue'. 
In recent years, the Singapore government has gradually imposed further repressive measures on the living conditions of political detainees. In 1 977, the ventilators in the cells in Moon Crescent Centre were closed, thus further aggravating the already poor ventilation of the cells and causing further physical and psychological stress to the detainees and their families. In recent months, severe curtailment has even been imposed on foodstuff supplied by families of political detainees. The prison diet for political detainees is inadequate and political detainees are compelled to supplement their diet with foodstuff from their families to ensure their health. Thus the government has not only refused to improve detainees ' prison rations( which are in some respect worse than that for convicted prisoners), it has also seen fit to prevent detainees' families from adequately supplementing the prison diet. This is an obvious punitive measure to render conditions under detention more oppressive. 
Since April this year, the political detainees have been protesting against these persecutionary measures, staging sitdown protests after each visit because prison authorities have refused to discuss the issue of foodstuff brought in by the families. Two one-day hunger strikes were staged in June (6th) and July ( 1 7th) when some detainees were sent to solitary confinement. We have petitioned to the prison authorities, once in early July and once two weeks later. On the second occasion a letter was also handed to the superintendent of Moon Crescent Centre requesting them to stop all punitive measures and to improve prison conditions. The Singapore government has not only ignored our petition, but has now resorted to even more severe measures to suppress this just protest. Almost all detainees have been locked up for 24 hours a day in solitary confinement in special mental torture cells in Changi Maximum Security Prison, which is normally used for convicted criminals. They are also deprived of all reading materials and human contacts. We have been refused the right to see our husband and children for at least two consecutive weeks, presumably the period they are in solitary confinement. In Singapore political detainees are allowed to be visited only by their immediate family (parents, wife/husband, children, brothers and sisters), and for half an hour each week. We can see the detainees through a sound-proof glass window with two wardens sitting behind the detainees in one room and one or two behind us in the other. We converse through telephones closely monitored by the secret police who can arbitrarily terminate the visit whould they find the conversation, such as mentioning of prison conditions 'objectionable'. Furthermore, as a punishment, we are denied the right to see our beloved ones even under such oppressive conditions. 
On 13th December 1977, Singapore's envoy to the United Nations, together with the envoys of New Zealand and Fiji, have jointly written to the UN Secretary General,  Dr Kurt  Waldheim, to ask that a petition by Amnesty International calling for the release of all prisoners of conscience become an official document of the UN General Assembly. It is incredible that the Lee Kuan Yew government in Singapore has sought to pose as an advocate of human rights before the world body when it has blatantly trampled upon the most elementary concept of human rights in its own country. While on the one hand the Singapore government urges the United Nations suppon for Amnesty International call for the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience such as our beloved ones, on the other hand it not only continues to imprison political detainees in Singapore but has also subjected them to torture and ill-treatment. 
We, the families and relatives of all political detainees in Singapore appeal to you and your organisation to take rapid and concrete steps to ensure that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will have meaning and substance in Singapore. World moral pressure is urgently needed to ensure that the Lee Kuan Yew government practises in Singapore what it preaches in the United Nations. We call on all those who genuinely believe in justice and human rights to lend their support to the campaign for the immediate and unconditional release of all political detainees in Singapore. 
Thank you. 
Families and relatives of Political Detainees in Singapore 
-I want to refer to some of the points that are made in the letter. The point is made that the Internal Security Act permits the Singaporean Government to imprison any political dissident without charge or trial for an indefinite period. Under Singapore's laws a person who is imprisoned for life after a trial and conviction is required to serve only  13  years and  4  months. But political detainees imprisoned without trial continue to be imprisoned even after15 years. In recent years there has been an increase in the repressive measures the Government is imposing on these political detainees. The letter gives instances of problems with food and of physical torture under interrogation. It states that when Lee Kuan Yew was faced with these allegations he said: 'All interrogations must wear down the resistance of these persons by sustained psychological pressure, including physical fatigue'. 
What makes this matter even more important is that in December  1977  Singapore's envoy to the United Nations, together with those from New Zealand and Fiji, sent a joint letter to the United Nations Secretary-General asking that a petition of Amnesty International calling for the release of all prisoners of conscience should become an official document of the United Nations General Assembly. It is rather incredible that the government in Singapore has sought to pose as an advocate of human rights before this world body when its own record as far as political dissidents is concerned is so shameful. I believe that 
Australia, because of its proximity and its ties with Singapore, should directly, by Diplomatic and moral pressure and by action taken at the United Nations, take forceful action to have this particular position improved. 
Having said that, I refer to an issue of an environmental nature. Recently we have had a spate of discussions about how to dispose of toxic wastes, particularly with regard to uranium. I noticed recently that one of the State governments had determined an area for the dumping of liquid industrial waste. I wonder what has happened to this waste in the past. I have noted a recent report from the United States about a little neighbourhood called Love Canal and the fact that in this area some  30  years ago industry started to bury its waste in what was thought to be a safe condition. The fact is that since a particular chemical and plastics company started burying its waste there, with filling a neighbourhood of houses, schools and all the rest of it has developed. It is now becoming obvious that the chemicals from this waste have been able to develop and have a severe effect not only on plant life, such as trees, and on animals but also on humans. In that area the number of birth defects in children is greatly increased, the percentage of mental retardation in children born in the area is greatly increased, and pregnant women are miscarrying at a rate  50  per cent higher than normal. A whole string of complaints have resulted from this disposal of waste. 
We are fortunate that we have a much larger area of continent, that we have a much sparser population than America. However, it is obvious that when it comes to industrial waste disposal, we need not only to take further note of how we dispose of it and where we dispose of it but also to look to what may happen with it in the future. I think that a lot of the disposal in Australia has generally been on the concept of land fill, that we have plenty of open spaces and open quarries where waste can be dumped and the overburden placed over it and this will be safe for later public or private usage. It is becoming pretty evident with incidents such as this arising that we may in fact need to review the situation. While the landfill method of waste disposal is obviously the easiest and cheapest method, there may be dangers in it for future generations. In this instance, it is pointed out that it took some time to realise what was causing the health problems in this area. Perhaps it is time we started to assess where these materials have been dumped in the past and whether they do in fact pose a threat to present and future generations. 
I join in the debate on the estimates of the Parliament. I suppose some of the matters I will raise are in accord with those matters raised by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  concerning the actions of the Executive. I was a  deputy chairman  of committees, an office which was recognised for the first time by the Remuneration Tribunal. It awarded the princely stipend of $507 per annum. I received payment for six weeks and then it was chopped off. But it is not about that matter that I am going to speak as far as Executive action is concerned. Honourable member's will recall that some years ago the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System examined the committee system of the ParliParliament. Substantial recommendations were made. 
I had a great deal to do with that committee as I was chairman for most of its existence. I was not satisfied that we had done a complete job but the thing that disturbs me is that despite the fact that when the report was presented the House was informed that there would be an opportunity to debate the report, that has never occurred. A couple of speeches were made when the report was first introduced. In later discussions it was suggested that the matter would be debated at some future time. I understand it has been discussed by a back bench committee of the Government parties and there has been some discussion by the Opposition party. But the chamber which is most vitally interested in this report has had no chance to have a wide ranging debate on the matter. We have had expenditure committees introduced and the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure is functioning. Its process is under examination. We are on the verge of seeing legislation committees in operation. The Parliament will have that experience. But there is a lot more than that to the committee system of Parliament. 
I know that practically all honourable members feel that under that system there can be a meeting of conflicting points of views and a greater chance of getting a sensible consensus which would be of benefit to parliamentary government. I do not think there is any doubt that this must have been a decision by the Executive. It has not brought that suggestion forward for action. We have to look at the other committee functions. Should we maintain a standing committee system which has a few standing committees in specific areas such as environment, or should we look at the possibility of subject matter committee which can deal with a variety of subjects in a variety of areas and which can take note of the resources of the House in terms of numbers. 
Perhaps it is wasteful to have a committee always looking at environmental factors. Perhaps environmental aspects are only one matter which should be looked at. In the Parliament we should not be thinking just about an examination which has already been done of the committee system. A member of the committee staff reminded me today of the parliamentary study group in the United Kingdom which, from time to time, produces reports on various aspects of the functioning of the Parliament. Frankly, I do not think we are even geared to do that yet. What we really need to do at the moment is to have a committee or study group- call it that if you like- to look broadly at the functionings and objects of the Parliament. Are some of our methods and attitudes too antiquated? Have we got stuck in a rut? Has the adversary principle destroyed a lot of what could go on in parliament? 
Is our Question Time satisfactory? I know I have raised this matter before. I have criticised our Question Time as one of the dullest question times in the Westminster system. If we are going to change it to have supplementary questions, do we not then have to think about the powers and discretions given to the Presiding Officer, whoever he may be? Parliament cannot function without the  Speaker  being given some discretion and some powers, and not only at Question Time. There are plenty of other occasions when a discretion could be allowable, and that would increase the sensible content of debate and would allow Parliament to proceed to more sensible conclusions. 
As of right we have overseas travel privileges. This has developed over a number of years. We have delegations going to the Interparliamentary Union, the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the United Nations. There are foreign affairs trips during the winter recess. Reports of those meetings are produced, a few brief words are said and nothing much happens. In addition, over the years a private facility has developed. I have not been here long enough to go back to the origins of that facility. Some honourable members will remember when travel privileges were granted to New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Norfolk Island, as well as local travel during the life of the Parliament. Now we have a situation where members, after having served their first three years, have the facility to travel during the life of the next Parliament in the way laid down by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
I think we have to look at accountability. When we talk about expenditure in any department we like to look at some theory of accountability. What principle of accountability is laid down? The principle laid down is that the member lists where he is going on a particular trip at public expense. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes a statement on a particular area overseas or when other Ministers with responsibility in other areas talk about international agreements with other countries, what debate goes on? The Executive makes the decision that the Minister will speak on the matter. I guess that the front bench on the Opposition side is just as bad because the Minister's opposite number speaks on the matter and the debate dies. 
The logical reason for allowing members of parliament the facility to visit other areas of the world is that they can meet other politicians, other parliamentarians, and look at questions of defence, foreign affairs and economics. I believe that honourable members apply themselves to this situation. But what chance do they get in the parliamentary scene to convey what they have learnt under those circumstances? Surely that should be the method of accountability to this Parliament when a private member has the privilege. Surely it is not enough for us to say that he is accountable to the Minister to state in writing where he is going so that someone can look at that statement. Surely the procedures of Parliament, when money is spent in this way, should allow for a free ranging debate to enable the members to put the points of view that they have heard, to talk about them and gain some benefit from the debate. 
I believe that perhaps the chamber at some time will have to stand up on its hind legs and roar about this situation. There has to be some opportunity for the back bench members of Parliament in many fields to be able to join in a general discussion that is not necessarily related to specific legislation which is before the chamber. After all, what happens? When specific legislation is before the chamber honourable members try to broaden the ambit of debate in order to make some of the points which they feel are important and which they have learnt.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you would be forced to say that what the honourable member is talking about is not relevant to the Bill. Yet the information could be useful to other members in the chamber in a general debate. I have gone through some of my pet feelings about the conduct of this chamber and about the feeling that we should have a continuing review of the way in which we function. Our procedures and methods are not so good that we have nothing else to learn. I feel that the Executive has a retarding effect in the development of these procedures. It wants to get on with its administrative work and is worried that this sort of discussion might interfere with that administration 
-In reply to the final remarks by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  on these estimates the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  I think it was, mentioned we do not oppose overseas trips per se for responsible Ministers and Prime Ministers, but we like to see some return from them for Australia in respect of results from foreign countries. At least the name 'E. G. Whitlam' still commands a good deal more respect than the name of the present Prime Minister does overseas. I want to deal with another matter that the honourable member for Macarthur dealt with, and that is the question of the Commonwealth Ombudsman. I too welcome this service. I do think that members of Parliament will be faced with some crises in judgment in advising their constituents on problems. Only in the last couple of days we have seen reports of guidelines relating to access by members of Parliament to public servants and officers of statutory authorities. I guess that if we read them one could, being hypercritical, say that this is some sort of restriction on members. I am not sure that they are in fact restrictions. 
They could be totally restrictive, and I think this is one of the fears that we have. In my electorate there is a large element of social worker problems which have to be taken up with Department 's. 
It is a very fine electorate. Over the years I have managed to get quite reasonable replies by not asking for ministerial decisions and so on but by going to senior officers in the departments who have been courteous and who have handled the majority of cases very well. There are of course matters which are beyond their control and which involve policy. One then has to approach the Minister for an answer. I am a bit concerned whether at that stage a member makes a judgment to press for a ministerial decision or whether it might be better to utilise the Commonwealth Ombudsman in view of the powers that he has to view files and papers. I can see that this is a matter that members will have to consider seriously. I suppose that each member will have to form his own individual guidelines according to his experience. I offer this warning: 
We do need to watch the guidelines which are given to public servants and the guidelines dealing with how we refer matters to the Ombudsman himself. 
I would like now to turn to the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services to reinforce the plea made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in regard to the question of detail on expenditure items. I refer to item 09, subdivision 2 of division 130 at page 14 of the Bill. The item relates to fees for private surveying services, consultants and parttime members of committees. The proposed appropriation involves well over $lm. It has very vague terminology to describe what the funds are used for and one could be a bit facetious and ask what are the private surveying services. Are they surveying land, buildings or public opinion? Who are the consultants? What are the committees? Who are the part-time members of the committees referred to in this item under Administrative Expenses of the Department of Administrative Services? I think we need to have a look at the form in which the Estimates are put forward. The Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland),  who is at the table, would be interested in this matter because he is a previous  chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. A number of these issues are relevant to the operations of that committee. 
I turn to the question of the Australian Property Services of the Department of Administrative Services. One of the things that concerns me is that I do not think enough attention has been paid in the properties we acquire to access for the disabled. Australian standard design code 1428 of 1977 outlines design rules for access by the disabled in new buildings. I make a plea that we pay more attention to this aspect not only when constructing new public buildings but also in how older buildings conform, whether or not they are government buildings. To give an example of what I am talking about I point out that I know that Parliament House does not come into this category. If we look at the front of the House we see a sign which states that there is access for the disabled at the sides of the House where there are ramps rather than steps. So persons in wheelchairs can get into the House along those ramps rather than by the steps. Such a person can move from floor to floor by lift. But when one starts to wander around these corridors of power or intrigue- whatever one likes to call them- every here and there one finds a couple of steps, a series of steps and all sorts of obstructions which make it pretty impossible for a disabled person to move around the House. I think we should show some consideration for them. Only last night I noticed a disabled gentleman sitting in the visitors gallery upstairs. He had extreme difficulty in handling himself out of the lower seat. I think that a lot of consideration has to be given to this design code by Property Services. 
A couple of honourable members in this debate on the Estimates have referred to honourable members' electoral offices. I inhabit a very good office which has ample space and equipment. I am one who has chosen to have the two staff allowed to me work in my electorate. Unfortunately, not only did the redistribution of last year increase the size of my electorate from 40 square kilometres to  609  square kilometres- that is not terribly large but it is still a great relative increase- but also it placed the electoral office some two kilometres out of the electorate. When we inquire about the availability of electoral offices we are told that there are bounds with regard to area, alterations and so on. These are fairly rigidly applied. I think it is about time that the Department of Administrative Services reviewed this matter. A new factor has come in and that is that a number of honourable members now have two members of staff in their electoral office because they feel that they serve their constituents best that way. If we are to have three people occupying an office we should have standards and conditions that are worthwhile for the member and his staff. Honourable members need to have a place for the storage of their files. The equipment needs a place to operate properly and there needs to be a reasonable area in which honourable members can deal with individuals and delegations who visit them. 
The other considerations are that suitable properties are not always easy to get, particularly when one has a diversity of transport methods to get to an area and no clearly defined centre. If we rigidly define the number of square feet and what can be done to alter an electoral office, and if we do not take into consideration the factor of whether an honourable member is using two members of staff or one and a number of the other things that have intruded, we get a most unsatisfactory position. I trust that the new Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  will have a look at those guidelines and review them with a view to taking these other factors into account. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Those honourable members who have in their electorate a large number of citizens of migrant origin have very little opportunities in this chamber to raise some of the common problems they find amongst these people. It should be recalled that often the presence of a high proportion of people of various migrant origin means that honourable members have to deal with not only their electors but also many thousands of people who are yet to be naturalised. The first matter I want to raise is the guidelines and tests used for entry qualifications. The family reunion test generally has been accepted as a not unreasonable test to be applied in the present circumstances. However, there is a great deal of confusion amongst migrants in the use of that term and in understanding just how far the relationship extends. I believe that we have to give some consideration to that matter. 
Another question I should like to raise deals with the rigidity of the application of this particular test. I would like to give an example that was brought to my notice recently. A migrant- an Australian citizen- who has a responsible position with a bank, supports his mother who lives in his home country of Yugoslavia. He has two brothers, one living in Austria and the other living in Yugoslavia. The only son who provides finance to support the mother is the one who lives in Australia. It was obvious to him that the best place for his mother was in Australia with him and his family.  His  own efforts to have her brought out under the family reunion arrangements were unsuccessful. The matter was brought to my attention and the attention of my staff. I am happy to say that after some time the mother has now been allowed to come to Australia where the supporting son is able to look after her. It illustrates the problem that arises if the family reunion test is applied too rigidly. There can be circumstances in which, although all the members of a family do not reside in Australia, important members of the family who are supporting relatives overseas are residing in Australia. 
It is not a bad idea to reflect on the amount of money that migrants send overseas to support relatives in other countries. I believe that this Government's true attitude to migrants is illustrated by the discriminatory move of abolishing tax rebates for the maintenance of overseas dependents. This hits only immigrants and former immigrants and their families. The Government has justified the withdrawal of the rebate by claiming that the provision has led to flagrant abuse. It has given next to no evidence in support of this claim. The so-called saving made by the Government will be somewhere around $8m in 1978-79. It is a relatively small and paltry sum but the suffering and hardship which it will cause the lower income families who are supporting relatives overseas are immeasurable. I think that the Government must either put up or shut up about its suggestion of flagrant abuse. If it is so ineffective that it cannot stop these abuses it should not be penalising families for whom this has been a worthwhile measure. 
Another question with regard to the admission of migrants is the possession of special professional or trade skills. In the Estimates we see that there is a Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications which has been going for some years and which produces an annual report. I find it terribly difficult to ascertain whether particularly a trade qualification is one that is acceptable in Australia. I do not doubt the work done by the committee and I acknowledge the courtesy with which one is received when one makes an inquiry, but the fact is that when migrants come to see a member of parliament and talk about one of their relatives whom they wish to see migrate to Australia and who they say has a particular skill in some area, they produce the certificates of that qualification or copies of them from some overseas school or institution and it is the devil's own job to find out whether that qualification is accepted. It is not of much use their putting up an application unless they know that it is going to be accepted. It is not of much use a member of parliament advising them to do that. It raises false expectations. I think it is a matter of common sense that we should perhaps have some consolidation in this area of professional and trade qualifications which would allow members of parliament and migrants to identify clearly the acceptability or otherwise of their skills. 
In a local area, of course, another matter which frequently comes before one involves tourist visas. One strikes two main problems with tourist visas. One finds the complaint that people cannot obtain such a visa to visit their relatives in Australia. So often those people who are refused a tourist visa have made an application some years previously to be migrants to Australia and either have been refused or have allowed the application to lapse when it has been accepted. This appears to produce a great atmosphere of suspicion amongst the officers handling the application when such people want to come here as tourists, and I think that this is one area about which we have to be careful. Also with regard to tourist visas, I am sure that many other honourable members have had the experience of interviewing people with visitor's visas who have been working in Australia and who want to stay. They appear to have no understanding of what that visitor's or tourist visa means. Frankly, I believe that many of them are being given false information by individuals who probably make a dollar out of it in their countries of origin. I think that is to be deplored. Any step that we could take to warn such migrants who are issued with these visas that the visas give them no right to work and no right to expect preference for permanent residence in the country has to be taken. Otherwise, people will try to overcome the system by doing this and I am sure that there are crooks and entrepreneurs who will take advantage of this sort of thing to convince unsuspecting people that this avenue is open to them. 
Another matter is the question of citizenship ceremonies. Some months ago the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  wrote to us and gave us guidelines as to what we were to say at those ceremonies, gently rapped our knuckles and said that we should not be political. I have accepted that although I mention the party to which I belong and the fact that I am in the Opposition. Most of these ceremonies are conducted by the local municipalities. In the old boundaries of my electorate there were two principal municipalities which always invited me to the ceremonies and sent me a list of those who were naturalised. There are now three major municipalities in my electorate, two of which extend this courtesy to me and another which does not. When the query is raised I am told in a second-hand verbal way that if I make a written application I might get a list of those who are naturalised. I think that the Minister ought to instruct local government bodies that as Australian citizenship is granted by the Australian Government they ought to inform the Federal member for the area of who the new citizens are so that he can advise them of where he is and how he can be of assistance. I think that this is quite important. In closing, I would hope that at some stage, instead of leaving it to the Galbally Committee, advisory councils and so on, we can have what the British Parliament has, namely, a parliamentary committee that looks at these questions of immigration and ethnic affairs. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to a recent report presented to the Victorian State Parliament regarding the 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T herbicides and any possible relationship to congenital abnormality. 
That report makes strong criticism of the lack of research facilities at the State level on such matters. Are any steps being taken by the Department of Health for research into and the monitoring of the effects of such chemicals when introduced into common use in the community? If no such facility exists, why not? 
It is always a pleasure to hear the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  speak in this field. He shows a width of compassion. He does not suffer from the same sort of funnel vision from which so many of his colleagues suffer. He definitely did not suffer from funnel vision with regard to the headings of the Estimates. It gives some hope for him. I do not share his optimism about the Government's actions in the field of health and welfare services. There is so much more to be done but there is not the incentive to do it. 
The honourable member for Murray moves me to remind him that, at the end of November, the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners- Victoria Faculty is holding a seminar on the problems of the delivery of health services to rural communities. I know that that seminar requires more than the support of health practitioners in various fields. The College is most anxious for interested citizens from remote areas all over Australia to attend and give their experience. It is conscious that there are many problems with the delivery of rural health care and all its facets. It wants to get people together, not just medically trained people or those trained in nursing, but people who have experienced the problems so that some fruitful recommendations may come out of the seminar. 
The honourable member has drawn me away from the theme that I intended to deal with but I think it was worth while making that comment. I turn to the question of our health services and make a passing reference to Medibank. The Government's health scheme has many of the nuances of the original Labor scheme. There will be a 40 per cent refund to all. It is suggested that standard ward beds in hospitals will still be available. The trouble is that, while I am an open and trusting fellow, I cannot accept that we can trust the Government in this case to guarantee to maintain that level of refund or to maintain the availability of standard ward beds. Does it guarantee that no means test will ever be introduced on those beds? Does it guarantee that it will see that the States will take appropriate steps to ensure an adequate supply of those beds? 
I know a little of the history of health insurance. I remember the hospital scheme that the Chifley Government introduced. I remember what happened in 1953 when money was paid to the States for hospital beds, provided a means test was imposed. Uninsured patients had a small amount paid and insured patients received a supplement. Insured patients received the Commonwealth benefit for medical treatment. It seems to me that it will be so simple for this Government to pare back that 40 per cent refund, provide a token payment for all and return to the old days of the 1950s. Those who voluntarily insure will receive an extra premium. There will be a means test on standard ward hospital beds when there are not enough. In other words, a section of the community will be underprivileged. 
What has the Government done about these socially-disadvantaged people? It has left the doctors as the arbiters in this area. To me that is a pretty cowardly thing to do. Some doctors will be over generous in applying the means test. If I were doing much general practice, I would be one of those. But others will adopt the sort of dole-bludging slogan that this Government has promoted in the community. They will be unnecessarily hard on the disadvantaged in the community and not give them the assistance that they need. What about the new federalism and the hospital funding in the States? I serve on the Board of a very large community hospital in Victoria, the Preston and Northcote Community Hospital. Some months ago, the hospital was examined to set what its staff, establishment should be. For months we have been trying to find out what the numbers would be. The reason we could not find out was that the figure would not be determined until the State Budget was brought down. In fact the staff establishment was to be determined according to the money available. It would not be determined according to the number of beds that were in the institution nor on the quality of patient care that was necessary in the institution. It was to be purely a judgment of dollars and cents. That is not the way to deliver health care. We should deliver health care so that we give quality health care to the patients. That is what I fear these changes in financing have brought about. 
The other excellent program that has been allowed to run down is the program for the community health centres. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  inherited from me two of these centres in East Preston and West Heidelberg. He knows the difference they have made in the delivery of health care in those areas. That program has run down. It is dead; it is gone. State governments are not interested. In fact, they are trying to strangle it. What is the situation with even the more simple forms of community health centres such as the one that was set up at Whittlesea? I quote from a letter dated 3 1 July addressed to the Hospitals and Charities Commission in Victoria. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  can return to the old business of saying: 'We give the States the money'. The States will reply: 'They do not give us enough' and in the meantime these institutions are not able to function properly. In relation to its situation at 3 1 July the Whittlesea Community Health Centre stated: 
Because of the fact that our monthly remittance is currently overdue, we are financially embarrassed. Creditors are outstanding and all concerned with the Centre feel insecure, to say the least. 
Commenting on its staff members it went on to say: 
They are giving of their very best without the encouragement and support all concerned were led to expect from your Organisation when we initiated this much needed community service. 
At that stage the Centre had written requesting a reasonable establishment grant. It has not received a reply. When the representatives of the State body were in contact with the Centre they had been insistent on the expansion of the Centre's facilities to cover the shire. The people at the Centre agree that that expansion is needed. They need a welfare officer to deal with the welfare cases in that area. Yet they are not getting the assistance from the State body and our Federal Government will wipe its hands of it and say: 'Under the new federalism policy that is not our responsibility. We do not care how community health services are delivered to these people '. 
The same thing applies to social security. Even a simple proposal to establish elderly citizens clubs in areas where there is a high number of such citizens is now being choked off. Decisions on State recommendations have been made until the end of 1978-79 and no further recommendations from the States will be considered until the future of the whole program is decided. This means that in the Whittlesea shire in the suburb of Lalor, which my friend the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  knows well, no forward planning can take place because of the complete abdication of this Government in that area. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Speaker, perhaps as a means of welcoming you back to the House after your short overseas visit I can address my question to you. Are you aware that during your absence the first two Legislation Committees of the House of Representatives met and considered three Bills in what could be described as a successful introduction to the use of Legislation Committees- something which at first sight many of us would hope will become a regular feature in the proceedings of this House? During your visit to Israel, did you have the opportunity to see the facilities available for the operation of this type of committee in the Israeli Parliament? Is there anything that you can do to improve the totally inadequate committee rooms that are available to accommodate Legislation Committees so that they can function as the House intends them to function? 
-On 28 September last I asked the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  a question without notice regarding 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T herbicides and a report to the Victorian Parliament criticising the lack of a research facility for examining such substances in Victoria. The Minister, in his answer, virtually replied that it was a State responsibility, and he washed his hands of it. In any case, he replied that the National Health and Medical Research Council had examined the matter on several occasions and had found no proof of a relationship with congenital abnormalities. He did say in his reply that this was a matter that must be left to research scientists, both in this country and overseas. But he failed to indicate what Government action was being taken to encourage any Australian research facility to look into this matter. 
In yesterday's  Australian,  a member of one of the Minister's own Federal committees made a statement on this matter. I speak of Professor Geoffrey Bentley, who is a member of the Federal Congenital Abnormalities Committee and he, in referring to those herbicides, said that his Committee had requested a full inquiry into the matter, through their parent committee, the Drug Evaluation Committee. He pointed out that 2,4,5-T in particular when burnt produced dioxin, a substance known to cause congenital abnormalities. He suggested that people in country areas should be particularly interested because the spray could drift onto house roofs where, through sunshine, et cetera, it could be subjected to heat and could be washed into the tank water that was used by those people. It was evident from the concern expressed in various quarters that there was a possibility that congenital abnormalities were occurring. I was shocked to read at the end of that report in the Press the following: 
A spokesman for  Mr Hunt  said yesterday there were no plans for a new inquiry into 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D. 
So much for the Minister's reliance on his own Federal committees. Even if he does not take the attitude that the Opposition takes to these substances and the possibility of their causing congenital abnormalities with consequent human suffering, I would have thought that this Government which talks so much about cost containment would have had some responsibility on the national scale if it were to look at the problems that arise, the cost of the health services, the cost of the prostheses that have to be provided to the people involved, and the cost of their rehabilitation and so on. 
This matter is associated with another matter I wish to raise, and that is the question of the storage of toxic waste. I raised the matter following an American report. Following my mention of it I found a number of university people were in an embarrassing situation because of the problem they had with organic solvent wastes- toxic substances- whereby they had nowhere to dispose of these toxic wastes. They believed industry was very much in the same position. At the moment the Victorian Government is setting up a site in the Darghile Forest near Heathcote and there is the possibility that Bendigo 's water supply might be contaminated by it. I would have thought that the Government Whip would have been interested in that aspect. This Federal 
Government both at the Department of Health and the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development levels cannot wipe its hands of these matters. It is about time it faced up to its responsibilities and did not excuse itself by passing the buck to the States. 
-Is leave granted? 
Government members- No. 
I want to address myself briefly to this same question of the maternity allowance. History has overtaken the maternity allowance in many ways and its origins are forgotten. The Minister for Health  (Mr 
Hunt) talked with some validity about the fact that it has remained at this level for some years. I think the probable reason it has remained at that amount is because of that 'irrespective of means' section which comes into the question and which deters us, as a matter of equity, from increasing it too much. But, after all, when it was introduced, migration to the country was, frankly, by childbirth. This was in wartime. People covered their medical costs from their private income or were lodge patients or public hospital patients where no fee was charged. Some sort of assessment was made by the social worker from the public hospital office who went around to get some idea of income and said: 'How much a week can you pay to have your baby in the public hospital?' 
Unfortunately the attitude developed that this maternity allowance was a contribution to the expenses of doctors and hospitals. I do not believe that that was the accent at the time. My friend the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  has pointed out that under the present 'Medi-muddle' the expenses of confinement and hospitals could be reasonably considerable to some people. I invite honourable members to consider that this allowance is a sort of establishment allowance for families in the lower income groups. When the mother presents herself for confinement she usually is given a list of materials that she is expected to have with her for the confinement itself and for the baby. These include things like combine, safety pins and all the things that are associated just with that confinement period. As well, when we talk about expenses associated with the birth of children, there is the actual establishment for looking after the new born babe. It is a time when expense is high- when a child needs clothing, all the various equipment for feeding and all the various equipment for sleeping. It is a stage in life when growth is at its greatest rate and, consequently, the renewal of this equipment is pretty frequent. If we are looking at the maternity allowance we should be looking not purely at the hospital and medical costs of confinement and childbirth. We should be looking to those problems that are presented to lower income families. 
I did not say with the means test because I have some feelings about means test with equity. I submit that the majority of people would be benefited by this sort of establishment allowance. I accept the Minister's comment that no government has shown great incentive in increasing this allowance. Rather than abolishing the allowance, I think it is an area that could well have been reviewed. If the Government wants to change the principles, if it wants to impose a means test, that is a proper decision for a government to make. If it did that sort of thing and the families of low income earners were to be assisted, it would receive far more sympathetic consideration from the Opposition than it would by abolishing it. 
My experience of medical practice was in areas of some social and economic deprivation. Because I was practising at a time of health insurance and people were battling to pay their health insurance, I tried to minimise the fees charged so that people did not have to go through the experience of public hospitals. They were living in the outer fringe area and hospitals were not always appropriately situated for them. I regret that the Government is abolishing this allowance. I could have had some respect for the government if it had reviewed the allowance and increased it and perhaps applied some restrictive guidelines to it 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
What steps does his Department take to comply with the Australian Standard Design Code 1428-1977 design rules for access by the disabled in new buildings. 
Is consideration of these rules mandatory in designing new buildings. 
I listened with interest to the comments of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  on the Antarctic Division. I was a little surprised that he did not pay a tribute to John Coates, his predecessor in the seat of Denison, who worked very hard between 1972 and 1975 to ensure that the Antarctic Division was transferred to the seat of Denison. 
The honourable member should not hesitate to be generous and to include  Mr Coates  in his remarks. I listened with interest to what the honourable member said about Mawson. I seem to remember as a very young scientist attending a conference of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science in Adelaide in 1946 in the presence of  Sir Douglas  Mawson and seeing a black and white film of the expedition. It may be that the honourable member for Denison and I could find a common cause and perhaps try to get hold of that film so that our fellow members could see what the expedition was like. 
It was not my intention to talk on the Antarctic Division. We have sent that south. It seems to me that on the estimates for the Department of Science I refer almost annually to the Australian Biological Resources Study. I note in this year's estimates the continued commitment of $250,000 to this study. I think it is as well to remind honourable members of the reason for this study. It has become evident over the years that there is inadequate compiled information with regard to the biological resources of Australia, the deficiency being more in the field of fauna than in the field of flora. Indeed, Australia is years behind other countries, such as the United States of America and India, in recording its biological resources. One of the important factors, of course, is the unique nature of the biological resources in Australia; the fart that so much is found that is unique to this continent. Added to this is the developing knowledge that there are ecological chains, that there is interdependence between the various levels of the flora and fauna, and without knowledge of this it is difficult to make calculated judgments on how far one can take environmental measures or preservation measures. 
One sees what is happening in the United States at the moment. For example, the Tellico Dam was to be built on the Little Tennessee River at a cost of $ 166m. This project has been held up by a judgment of the United States Supreme Court because this is the only area where the 3-inch long snail darter exists. There is a similar problem with the Furbish lousewort, which is threatened by the proposed $5 5 9m Dickey Lincoln Dam in Maine. The problem there is protection of a species purely for the sake of the protection of a species. We may have to come to a decision that some species are going to be lost. But if we are going to make that decision we want to be sure of their ecological significance. We want to be sure that these species do not occupy an ecological nitch which is important to the existence of other species. Without an adequate biological resources study we cannot expect this to be the case. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  has pointed to some of the deficiencies in expenditure in the science area. What we would like to know is what progress has been made in this biological resources study, how far we are advanced towards getting a reasonable overall picture and when it is predicted the resources study would be substantially carried out. If, as I believe, it is progressing very slowly, I think we will find that the expenditure on it is quite inadequate. 
Another item that is of interest under the Department of Science is the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board. We remember the legislation that was passed by this chamber some time ago in relation to the telescope agreement. One wonders how far we are prepared to go in Australia on the question of research in the astronomy field. My attention was drawn recently to a joint effort of the University of Arizona and the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Apparently on Mount Hopkins, some 40 miles south of Tucson, Arizona, a multiple mirror telescope has been constructed which, it is suggested, has as much capacity as the very largest of the one mirror telescopes. It is composed of six main mirrors, each with a diameter of 1.8 metres. Internal laser tracking is used for its operation. The interesting thing about its cost is that at $8m the multiple mirror telescope cost a fourth of the cost of a comparable conventional telescope. One of the reasons this telescope does not cost as much is the advantage that it has when it comes to casting, grinding and mounting smaller mirrors as against the larger conventional mirror. It also was interesting to read that the construction of the telescope was made possible because the United States Air Force had a number of 1.8 metre blank mirrors from its spy satellite program. With Australia involved in various satellite programs, one wonders whether there is any reserve capacity which could be utilised to construct this cheaper type of telescope to increase Australia's capacity perhaps under the Anglo-Australian telescope agreement. 
Furthermore the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development is to convene next year. We have had the production of an Australian national paper on the subject. If members refer to chapter eight of that paper which is entitled Science in Australia and which commences on page 141- I do not want to go into detail on that chapter- they will find that the very introduction indicates the complexity of the arrangements in the science and technology field in Australia. It makes one wonder about the effectiveness of a ministry of science itself when so many truly scientific functions are hived off to other departments. I guess that the main functions of the Ministry for Science are really concerned with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization. The others are all peripheral. Many of the functions have gone to the Department of Health. A number of functions have gone to the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, whilst a number of other functions are in the more technical area. The Department of Education is to take over a fair amount of the functions of the Ministry of Science. One wonders whether this will not lead to some gaps in our attitude towards science. 
I have raised previously the question of the herbicides 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D. This has not been taken up by this Federal Government. Victorian councils are now banning those herbicides. They originated in America and America is now banning them. As far as I can make out, there is no facility for research on them in Australia. There has been no comment from the Federal Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  or from the Federal Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  regarding those herbicides. They take no responsibility at all for the overall picture in Australia. Had time permitted I was going to continue my remarks about this research facility in science because I wanted to raise the question of asbestosis- a matter which has recently gained some prominence in Victoria. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the three Bills? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Because of representations I have received, I refer the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to recent decisions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal regarding three public broadcasting licences for Melbourne. I ask: Will the Tribunal publish reasons for giving licences? Will it publish reasons for not giving licences? Are transcripts of the Tribunal's hearings copyright to the Tribunal or are they available for public scrutiny? When will the next applications for public broadcasting licences be called? 
-I am sure that the House listened with interest to the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  when he referred to some of the more imaginative aspects of a real road program.  His  electorate adjoins mine and many of the transport problems he has arise from the travel needs of my constituents. However, in addition my electorate takes in part of a national highway and has many rural, arterial and local roads. I want to refer mainly to the question of finance, particularly in relation to local government. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  when introducing the original Bill, announced that it was the Government's intention to adjust the grants for 1978-79 and 1979-80 so that they would be maintained at a level equivalent in real terms to the 1977-78 amount. I know that that caused a lot of concern at the time he announced it because people wondered what it really meant. Now they have the answer. As my colleague the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  pointed out, using proper price indices this was at least one per cent less than could have been expected. 
The thrust of criticism is at the very basis on which the funding for roads is made. The first problem is the so-called new federalism, which brings so many disadvantages and allows State and Australian governments of conservative character to wash their hands of the affair. The so-called new federalism is not new. It reflects the conservative attitudes of the 1920s, modified only by the revenue-gathering powers the Australian Government acquired in the 1940s. It is accepted that the only control the Australian Government has is its control of the purse strings, but it cannot use that to excuse lack of responsibility. There is not doubt that with current road funding there has been a deterioration in roads. The honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  referred to this deterioration and to the type of capital program which would be required in the future to correct it. There is no doubt that road funds have to be related to a real base year and adjusted on a responsible road price index. There are many who believe that this triennial program of fund allocation does not allow adequate national planning. Many concerned groups in the community believe that it is in the area of roads that a stimulus to employment could be given, with beneficial community effects right across the countryside, not only in the urban areas but in the rural areas as well. Although the Minister has talked about a continuing policy of restraint, it is about time some stimulus was given. 
To remind honourable members of the magnitude of the task ahead, I refer to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Report on Roads in Australia 1975. 1 point out that at that time the Bureau said that to bring roads up to a surveyed standard would require $ 16,305m between 1975 and 1981. The Bureau produced a cost benefit analysis to give a warranted program of $7,626m, or 47 per cent of the surveyed standard. Then because of the financial restraints, it gave a recommended program of $5,500m, or 34 per cent of the surveyed standard. One can see the real gap between the surveyed needs and what has been able to be done. This recommended amount had to be further divided between the Australian Government, State government and local government. Using that base year, the distribution in Victoria would have been as follows: Australian Government 32.8 per cent of road costs; State government 35.9 per cent of road costs; and local government 3 1.3 per cent of road costs. I refer to this because of the continuing erosion of the ability of local government to raise revenue and the effect this has on its road programs. On this aspect the Minister excuses himself by laying all the blame on the State governments. He has been fairly vocal about the New South Wales State Government, so let us turn to Victoria, where some of the greatest waste of public money, shoddy dealing and pork barrelling goes on. In the policy statement of the Victorian Premier for the 1976 election reference was made to road safety, but that dealt with legal, police and education matters. The only policy on roads given at that time was this one paragraph: 
Three years ago we decided that freeways proposed in the inner suburbs would not be built because they would seriously disrupt established communities; any delay or traffic congestion would be mitigated as far as possible by improving existing arterial roads, especially intersections. We will continue to build freeways in the outer suburbs and country where road reservations have been planned, and no disruption is caused. That policy stands and has not been altered in any way. 
That was the total road policy. It is no wonder local government is perturbed. The Minister recently advised Victorian members of Parliament of the allocations to their electorates under this program. Let us see what he had to say in that letter about the Victorian State Government: 
To qualify to receive Commonwealth road grants, State Governments are required to spend a minimum amount of their own funds on roads. The minimum amount for Victoria for 1978-79 is $l32.187m. The State may allocate any amount of its own funds to whatever road category or projects it considers has sufficient priority. 
As you would be aware, the Commonwealth has, under its road legislation, placed great emphasis on local roads which mainly come within the responsibility of Local Government. It continued this emphasis in 1978-79 by increasing grants to the States for roads by almost seven per cent to ensure their value is maintained at the 1977-78 level in real terms. 
We could argue about that. 
I was therefore particularly concerned when the then Victorian Minister of Transport announced on 19 April that Councils would receive an increase of only 2.9 per cent in their total allocations for roads in 1978-79. A number of Councils had written to me expressing their concern at the level of road funds they were to receive this financial year. 
On 4 August, I announced that I would be withholding approval for Victoria's local road programs for 1978-79. because I had not received a reply from the Victorian Minister which adequately explained the apparent shortfall between the increase in allocations for Councils and the increased Commonwealth grant. 
There is further comment in the letter which I would like to read but because of limitations of time I cannot do so. I am grateful for the Minister's statement. I do not support his attitude of washing his hands of the whole affair, but I do commend the fact that he has taken on the Victorian Government for its attitude to roads, to the road system and to local government. It has a shameful history in this area. It has grown stale in office and could well and truly be turfed out. One of the things that this Bill shows is a continuing erosion of the facilities given to local government in States such as Victoria. The new federalism has effectively eroded what is available to local government. The cut back in road programs and the disappearance of other programs have further disadvantaged local government. A lot more could be said on the subject of roads, although the Bill is not being opposed. But in order to give some of my colleagues a chance to talk about their electorates I will conclude. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  represents a vast rural area with many road problems. I believe that he should be able to lay his complaints about the inadequacies of this Bill before the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) How many building used by Australian Government departments comply with the Australian Standard Design Code 1428-1977 design rules for access by the disabled. 
What steps are being taken to have these rules implemented in buildings which do not comply with the design rules. 
-I joint in the debate to reinforce some of the views that my colleagues have put. The Bill deals with the purchase of another Boeing 727-200 series aircraft, and I think that those of us who use the airlines regularly would see this as a very satisfactory aircraft for Australian conditions so far as comfort and reliability of service are concerned. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  mentioned that there was some problem about noise levels. However, the Boeing has been a very efficient and effective aircraft. One wonders why Trans-Australia Airlines does not require the loan procedures whereas Ansett Airlines of Australia does, and no details are given. One is also concerned that the continuation of the purchase of 200-series aircraft seems to be putting off any decision about the wide-bodied aircraft which must come ultimately. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech said: 
On the domestic scene the reports of the domestic air transport policy review committee have been released and I am looking for public reaction to the recommendations contained in the reports. 
As I recall it, the Minister presented the document to Parliament and announced that as there was a shortage of copies a copy would be tabled in the Parliamentary Library for the use of members. As late as today I tried to get a copy of the report from the Papers Office but copies are just not available. Still the only copy available to members is the one in the Library. If the Minister wants public reaction I do not know how he is going to get it if copies of the report are as unavailable to the public as they are to members. The report is a worthwhile one and raises many issues which do not necessarily have to be dealt with in discussion on an adversary basis. I hope that the Minister will get weaving and do something about that. 
I join with the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  on the question of parallel services. This matter has been raised time and time again. There seems to be an ingrown superstition or adage in the airlines that on the hour is peak hour and on the half hour is off-peak and if that is varied one airline is going to be disadvantaged. I think that is so much rubbish because on some of the routes at any rate the situation is being reached where at certain times of the day the airlines could almost run a shuttle service. It is about time that the airlines were fronted and told to stop that nonsense. The honourable member for La Trobe tended to imply that members on this side of the House were querying the two-airline policy. I point out to him that the querying of the two-airline policy is not against the policy as such but relates to the modernisation of the concept. If the honourable member has read the domestic air transport policy review committee's report, which is in the Parliamentary Library, he will have noticed that in those recommendations there are some alterations to the original concept. Briefly, in some areas the Committee refers to the regional airlines and the fact that, although not talking about a third airline, there are sectors where the regional airlines could well compete with the two principal airlines. I think that is a variation of the theme. 
The report also makes some comments on the question of freight carriage. That is a rather confused picture at the moment in relation to the carriage of freight by the domestic airlines. There is a growing number of air cargo companies, some of them showing very rapid development, some of them using the two existing airlines and the regional airlines, and some even getting into the act themselves with the purchase of planes. The recommendations of the policy review committee indicate that it is no good staying with the two-airline policy as originally enunciated. We have to look at what has occurred in Australia in regard to changes in aircraft, changes in demand and so on, and adapt to them. Almost every  speaker  has referred to the fare structure in relation to the domestic airlines. 
One of the recommendations of the committee which I find interesting is recommendation 24, which queries the manner of working out how the other interests of the airline companies affect ordinary air passengers. In other words, are the air travellers who are using the airline for transport from point A to point B in effect subsidising other operations such as hotels, road tours and all the rest of it, and is there some disadvantage built in for the air traveller per se? One knows that on the international scene particularly one can get a package tour for eight or nine days often far cheaper than the economy class return fare. One suspects that a little bit of that comes into the package tours to Surfers Paradise and other areas in Queensland, and even to Wrest Point, where there is little difference between the return economy class fare and the return package fare which provides several nights' accommodation and $10 worth of chips to use at the casino. Obviously, according to that report, insufficient data is available for us to be certain just how much of this goes on, and perhaps we should be acquiring data in this area. One also sees how the two-airline policy can dominate the rental car war that is going on at the moment. I will not go into the detail of that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because I am sure you would stop me. 
One of the recommendations in the review committee's report was that the airlines should start thinking about innovative fares for the Australian situation, and a couple of suggestions have been put up. They are pretty tentative, and I am sure that much more can be done. Honourable members are probably aware of what has been happening on the domestic airline scene in the United States of America. I want honourable members to understand that I realise the population of the United States is a heck of a lot larger than that of Australia; so it can build up demand. I think that there are some ideas in the United States that we in Australia could well look at. As an example, I shall quote from  Time  of 14 August 1978: 
So Tar this year, US airlines have carried 180 million passengers, a 16 per cent increase over last year and the largest gain in airline history ... the earnings of airlines are heading toward unprecedented heights- 
The article goes on to state that lower prices lead to higher demand, which in turn creates higher profits. That situation can be reduced to an absurdity if it is projected further. The attitude in the United States airline industry is stated in the article as follows: 
The US airline industry has been treated like a semimonopolistic public utility, with routes and fares controlled by the Civil Aeronautics Board, which has sought to avoid overcompetition and ruinous price wars. 
Now, the reverse position applies. The article goes on to state: 
Now, President Carter wants to free the airlines from Government economic controls entirely and allow them to fly anywhere at any time and charge any price, no matter how ridiculously low. 
Of course, that too can have an adverse effect in that, if nearly everyone begins to fly at a cut rate fare, the break even point for airlines will rise until they cannot make a profit, no matter how packed the planes are. Australia has to learn some lessons from the United States experience. With our basic two-airline policy we must somehow strike the middle path. If we are to continue with a two-airline policy, we must have some control but encourage the innovative type of fares. It is interesting to note that on some routes in America there are at least 90 different fare structures. The mind boggles at the problems this brings with it. If we are to have this type of fare structure which leads to vast increases in the number of passengers carried, we will have to look at some of the problems that will arise. I shall deal with some of them. Firstly, there will be gripes from business travellers who are paying the full fare to travel in planes crowded with concession fare travellers. If there is to be a great increase in the number of people travelling, the reservation systems of our airports will not be adequate. Transport to and from airports and handling facilities at airports are very rapidly becoming inadequate. This will be particularly the case with the wide-bodied aircraft. One only has to see the shemozzle that exists at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport with the separate domestic and international terminals. Problems are created when a couple of jumbo jets arrive at the same time. We have problems already with the delivery of luggage from these aircraft. With the increased numbers of passengers the position will be even worse. Honourable members who travel from Canberra to Melbourne on Friday morning know that it takes as long for their luggage to come up onto the carousel as it takes to fly from Canberra to Melbourne. This is the situation at an airport that is supposed to have a relatively new and modern domestic terminal. These are some of the problems that we will face. 
Having commented on the increased traffic that will flow from innovative fares and the need for airport facilities that will be needed to cope with these increased numbers of passengers, I refer now to the future aircraft after the Boeing 727-200. There seem to be pressures to delay the decision about future aircraft. It seems that the three main wide-bodied jets to be considered are all paper aeroplanes at the moment. I think one can fairly say that the contenders are the Boeing 767, which will carry 197 passengers. Its delivery date could be 1982. The delivery date for the Lockheed L 1 0 1 1 -400 series, which will carry 230 passengers is 1 98 1 . The Airbus A3 10-200, which will take 208 to 229 passengers, will be available for delivery in 1982, although I guess that the Airbus 300 could also be a contender. 
My understanding is that the airlines are looking for the best aircraft that will carry between 220 and 230 passengers. One wonders just how long it will be possible to delay the decision about the wide-bodied aircraft into which the airlines are planning to move. There will be a long lead time before the aircraft is available and the problems of facilities that have to be made available for the passengers and for air traffic control. These aircraft will be different technically in their operation and will require special facilities for their control. One hopes that in light of all the recommendations that have been made on the domestic scene with regard to decisions as they affect passengers, freight, fares and the twoairline policy and so on there can be more hastening of the decision about the next generation of aircraft for mass transport. Probably, that requires public debate too because airport facilities are governed by aircraft type. 
I reiterate that I regret the public reaction to the recommendations of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review is being inhibited by the lack of copies of its report. The report is of interest. The recommendations seem to be down to earth and should be subject to critical scrutiny. This debate has ranged rather wide of the subject matter of the Bill, the purchase of extra Boeing 727-200 aircraft. At the moment we welcome the use of this aircraft but we look forward to the decision being made on the future generation of aircraft to be used on domestic routes. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the Melbourne  Herald  of Friday, 17 November, concerning a school for Vietnamese children in Altona? If so, is it a fact that the teachers had to purchase teaching materials at their expense? Is it also a fact that the teachers had to borrow furniture because the State Department of Education did not supply any? Is there a similar school in Blackburn where the teachers are forced to provide teaching materials at their expense? Is the Federal Government responsible for the payment of the teachers' salaries? Is it also responsible for providing the furniture and teaching materials? If so, will the teachers be reimbursed for the expenses incurred by them in providing those materials? 
It is always a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  in a debate. I am delighted to hear that his tertiary institutions are going so well. Shortly I am going to have something to say about country schools. With the defects that are still there, I think that it would have been more appropriate if the honourable member had talked about the defects in that area. In this cognate debate we are dealing with the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill. It is my intention to concentrate on the schools assistance aspect. 
I want to make just one passing reference to the tertiary education field. Recently when the Government was floating the proposition that tertiary fees should be restored for students at tertiary institutions- thank goodness that that has now been retracted- it was said that freedom from paying fees at tertiary institutions had not appreciably assisted children from lower income families to gain tertiary education. I think that that was an improper way to put the position. I thought that that was more a function of defects in the primary and secondary education systems than it was a matter of the fees being charged at tertiary institutions. 
In the late 1960s and early 1970s education was a vital field of great public and parliamentary debate. It occupied a great prominence in the debates of this chamber and, indeed, in many State parliaments. Between 1972 and 1975 there were massive changes in educational opportunities and in the involvement of financing from the Australian Government and, I believe, there was a great deal of improvement in our education system. However, I am appalled at the present dearth of public and parliamentary debate on education. The placing of these education Bills at the tail end of the session, and with so little involvement, indicates how much interest in the subject has been lost by parliamentarians. So much inequality still exists in the education system. Honourable members will recall how the concept of the needs basis took so much heat out of the old government school versus nongovernment school debate- the State aid issue. It was a debate that had a great deal of effect on the political party to which I belong. However, the institution of the needs principle allowed almost universal acceptability of the programs that were introduced. 
I fear that the recent guidelines set by this Government have caused a rekindling in the community of those old fears and the old arguments about education funding. My colleague, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  has mentioned this matter. I deplore the fact that these guidelines are restoking the old fires of dissension. For example, in my own electorate I received recently communications from committees at Lakeside High School, Greenbrook Primary School, Kingsbury Primary School, Reservoir High School, Preston Girls High School, Epping High School, Keon Park Primary School and the Preston Technical 
Teachers Association of Victoria. All these communications expressed disappointment at the redistribution of finance between the government and non-government sectors in favour of the latter. In addition, they referred to the cuts in capital expenditure and the failure of capital commitment in the field. One can understand why some of these schools have this feeling. I shall quote from a letter I received from the Lalor West Primary School Council. It states: 
The School Council, together with the parents of children attending this school, are deeply concerned with the lack of education facilities within the Lalor area. 
This is an outer urban area. The letter continues: 
Lalor West Primary School has accommodation for approximately 770 pupils, and is now at a level not far from this figure, and we also believe that Lalor Park Primary School is in a similar situation. 
With new housing developments steadily increasing within Lalor West and Lalor Park boundaries, it is evident that, with potential new incoming pupils, these schools could not cope with such an increase in numbers. 
In view of this serious situation, we would request that the Government urgently investigate the situation..... 
These are the sorts of problems that the lack of capital commitment is causing. This is occurring in an area where there is a high migrant population. 
Let me return to a more general topic of discussion. I am disappointed, as I have mentioned before, at the restricted debate which we are having on this matter. In recent months we have seen the Schools Commission's report; we have seen the issuing of a discussion paper on some aspects of school finance in Australia from the Schools Commission; and we have had the ministerial statement on education on 2 1 November. In addition, material has been circulated by the Australian Teachers Federation, the Council of State School Organisations, the Australian Union of Students, the Federal Catholic Education Office, the University Staff Association, and so on. It is appalling that an appropriate opportunity has not been given for a wide ranging debate on these matters by this Parliament when one considers the increased involvement of the Federal Government in school financing. 
I refer honourable members to an article by  Dr Don  Smart which recently appeared in  Education News.  I think this article gives us a very good indication of the increasing involvement of this Parliament and of the Federal Government in school financing.  Dr Smart  in referring to an incident in 1 945, commented as follows:  the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr R.  G. . . . Menzies, rose in the House of Reps to move an urgency motion calling for substantial federal aid to Australian education at all levels.  Mr Menzies  told the House that he deplored the current state of Australian education, and urged the Commonwealth Government to make a major contribution to educational reform. He said that the Government should begin by establishing- in collaboration with the States- an independent committee of experts to investigate Australia's educational problems and to make suitable recommendations for all sectors. 
As honourable members know, from that date on some activities started to take place. Unfortunately, it was that sort of activity that aggravated the situation between government and nongovernment schools. John Gorton made this statement: 
In its own Territories, the Commonwealth is, of course, solely responsible for financing education but, even in the States, education is tending to become, in effect, a partnership between the Commonwealth and the States. The States have the prime responsibility, particularly in primary and secondary schools, but the Commonwealth is now sharing with the States in financing tertiary education and is making a direct contribution to secondary education. 
We then move a little further along the road to when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated: 
I should like to commence my remarks about the Commonwealth's education program for 1971-72 by emphasising the close concern which the Commonwealth has, and will continue to have, with educational matters. The Government fully recognises the national importance of education and of the development of educational services, and its objective is to do what it appropriately can, in co-operation with the State governments, to improve the quantity and quality of education in Australia. 
We then progressed to the step where tertiary fees were abolished and where there was a massive influence on total education throughout Australia.  Mr Whitlam  stated: 
The Labor Party is determined that every child who embarks on secondary education in 1973 shall, irrespective of school or location, have as good an opportunity as any other child of completing his secondary education and continuing his education further. The Labor Party believes that the Commonwealth should give most assistance to those schools, primary and secondary, whose pupils need most assistance. 
It was on this principle that that great program was started. One could not leave this matter without quoting also a comment made by  Mr Beazley,  the Minister for Education of that era. He said: 
What has to be recognised in Australia is the power of simple snobbery and the extent to which education is regarded as a weapon to ensure the advantage of 'our child over their child'. Perhaps there is a growing tendency to regard education not as a weapon of advantage, but as an instrument of the dignity of all children and young people. If this view becomes general, the educational revolution that matters will have been achieved. 
Unfortunately it has not yet been achieved. I think we should be able to discuss and to carry on some of those matters of which  Mr Beazley  spoke.  Dr Smart,  in his article, analysed the reasons for the increased involvement of Commonwealth governments in education. I feel that time does not allow me to go through those reasons. One of the other factors that we have to consider is that many of the changed government guidelines and the comments of the Schools Commission are based on the proposition and the recording that many of the resource targets that were set out initially have been reached. At about the middle of this year, the Australian Teachers Federation produced material in which it cast some doubt on the effects that have been attained. The Australian Teachers Federation carried out a national survey and produced a sheet which compares the configuration and the facts. 
-It was done in the middle of this year. The paper is dated May 1978, so it is quite recent. The configuration is stated as follows: 
The Schools Commission in its 1978 Report gave details of a configuration of resources for schools. They felt that this configuration might be achieved in Australian schools soon. 
Then the comment of the Federation is this: 
Information from the ATF National Survey of Conditions in Schools shows that Government schools are a long way from achieving that configuration. 
The factors are set out under the heading 'The Configuration' and state: 
teaching staff sufficient to ensure that- infants classes need not exceed 25 students. primary or junior secondary classes need not exceed 30 students. senior secondary classes need not exceed 25 students. 
The findings are: 42 per cent of infants' classes exceed 25 students, 39 per cent of primary and 33 per cent of junior secondary classes exceed 30 students, and 24 per cent of senior secondary classes exceed 25 students. That is not very close to target. There is still a lot to be done. 'The Configuration 'states: 
relieving teachers are available when teachers are absent from duty. 
The facts are that this is achieved in very few States and Territories. 'The Configuration' further states: 
10 per cent of the total staff working hours to be distributed among staff for recognised administrative duties. 
This target is achieved. It continues: 
enough additional primary teachers to allow release of teachers from direct classroom instruction for two hours per week. 
On an Australian average this would require an additional 1,200 teachers- a long way from target. 'The Configuration ' further states: 
new teachers to have a 10 per cent reduced working load in the first year of service. 
There were 9,400 new teachers in 1978. An additional 900 teachers would be required to achieve this target. "The Configuration' further states: 
an average of five days per year for attendance at inservice programs aimed at professional development. 
The facts are that it would need an additional 3,000 teachers. The next factor is: 
classroom aides at the rate of one full-time equivalent per 250 students in primary and 1 50 in secondary. 
The rate is one full-time equivalent for 230 primary/infants students and one full-time equivalent for every 166 secondary/technical students. I suppose those figures are quite good. The Configuration ' further states: 
clerical assistance equivalent on a full-time basis to one per 400 students in primary schools and one per 200 students in secondary schools. 
At the moment the rate is one full-time equivalent for every 478 primary students and every 223 secondary students. The final factor is: 
sufficient cash resources to obviate the necessity for semi-compulsory fees in government schools for the purchase of needed equipment and consumable resources. 
At an average of $30 a student this would cost an additional $70m. So one must query how close we really are to the targets. Of even more concern was the survey that teachers carried out into country schools. This is why I mentioned this fact to the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who I thought would have been very concerned about this matter. I will comment on what the teachers found in conducting a stratified random survey of 591, or 14 per cent of, country schools. They found that country schools throughout Australia are characterised by the inadequacy of buildings in secondary schools, the lack of remedial teaching staff in primary schools and overcrowded classes in the majority of country primary schools. That is really an indictment after aU the effort that has been put into the matter. The survey goes on further to comment: 
The situation that exists in Australia generally also exists in the country schools. 49 per cent of those students perceived by their teachers to be needing migrant or intensive English were receiving no extra assistance, 60 per cent of those students perceived by their teachers to be needing remedial number help were receiving no extra assistance and 49 per cent of those students perceived by their teachers to be needing remedial reading were receiving no extra assistance. 
Surely these are factors which indicate that despite the effort that has been put in and despite what has been happening, as a matter of responsibility we in this House should be discussing these matters and seeing what the answers are, instead of letting the great education debate and the concern for it just die. The investigations found that country children, particularly primary school students, were less likely than city children to be receiving the help that they required. The survey states: 
Nearly three quaners of the students in country primary schools who need extra help with number work are missing out on that assistance, and over half the students in country primary schools who need remedial reading help do not receive that assistance. 
There are not the specialist teachers in the country. The survey found: 
The ratio of total teachers to specialist teachers in country schools is 14.7 whereas for Australian schools generally, the ratio is 11.3. 
One of the other matters for concern in this age of unemployment is the fact that careers counselling in country schools is totally inadequate. All that is provided is 1.3 hours a year for each student in secondary schools in small country centres and 3.8 hours a year on average for students in larger country centres. We already have a situation in country areas where the job opportunities for the children are limited. They have more problems with their careers counselling than the students in city areas have. Yet there is this lack of facility for career counselling in those country areas. If one looks at the school building program one would see that the country schools have far worse than average conditions. That is one of the problems with our capital expenditure. The Schools Commission realises that these problems have to be overcome in country areas. It has made recommendations to the Government. 
The honourable member for Holt asks: 'Are they well taught?' That is important but I would have thought that any honourable member would have heard that 49 per cent of those students perceived by their teachers to be needing migrant or intensive English were receiving no extra assistance, 60 per cent of those students perceived by their teachers to be needing remedial number help were receiving no extra assistance and 49 per cent of those students perceived by their teachers to be needing remedial reading were receiving no extra assistance. Surely this assessment shows that we do not have those conditions that are required or the staff that is required. Whatever the quality of teaching, the present numbers of teachers can do only a certain job. Those are the defects in these areas. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I refer in this adjournment debate to some of the aspects of the dead hand of the new federalism on worthwhile community projects. One knows that one of the problems in this matter is the lack of accountability of the States for expenditure of Federal funds in many of these areas. State governments have received quite substantial funding for community health centres. These community health centres were introduced by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  when he was Minister for Health. They were very well accepted in the community. It is not just the general health centres that I am referring to. Included in the scheme were mental health centres. As I will mention later, they are most important in the methods of treatment of mental health problems. One of the reasons why I am particularly conscious of these centres is that, before 1977, the boundaries of my electorate contained major mental health institutions. They have now been transferred to my colleague, the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  It has been my opportunity to see the change that has taken place in these institutions in that local area over the years. One element has become quite evident with regard to the community health centres dealing with mental health at present. There is absolutely no planning at the State level whatsoever. In the newly formed Victorian Health Commission- the successor to the Health Department and Hospital and Charities Commission- no one accepts responsibility for the planning and activity in these centres. The result of this lack of planning and lack of aim is frustration for the staff who are employed in those centres. There is lack of finance, lack of purpose and lack of future. Staff members are resigning. Effectively, the dead hand of the new federalism is condemning these projects down the drain. 
I refer to the Whittlesea clinic in my electorate. It is administered theoretically by the Plenty Hospital. Nearby is the Broadmeadows Community Health Centre for the same purpose which is administered by the Montpark Hospital. I believe that because of the lack of planning, and the deliberate purpose going on at Victorian State level, the funds for these clinics are being diverted straight to the Plenty and Montpark hospitals and then into their institutional authorities. The funds are not being utilised at all for these mental health community centres. This is tragic. In Victoria one has only to go back to the 1950s when  Dr Cunningham  Dax came to Victoria and gave a new concept to the scheme.  His  book  From Asylum to Community  predicted the change that would eventuate in the treatment of persons with mental complaints and claimed that the community centres would be of increasing importance to outside hospitals. In this way, people would not be institutionalised or locked up like prisoners as they had been in the past, but would go out and cany on their work in the community at the community health centres that we ultimately introduced. But because of the new federalism, we have State mismanagement; we note the misuse of public funds; and we see the strangling of a worthwhile project. What is even worse, in Victoria, with an election on 5 May, the Victorian Government cannot be examined because the Parliament is not going to meet this financial year. 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry what provisions currently exist to make Commonwealth finance available to poor or marginal farmers for rural adjustments? Who administers distribution of the funds? Are the interest rates charged less than commercial interest rates? 
-I invite the honourable member to return to the Bill. 
-I was interested to listen to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  when he spoke about the prominent sportsmen he would recommend to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to an extension of the program. I was surprised that as a Tasmanian he did not refer to Darrell Baldock, John Devine or Peter Hudson. Perhaps his political bias was showing. I was also amazed that the honourable member from the Government side commented on the economic and social ills in relation to this subject. It rings a bit hollow when a record number of unemployed are saying: 'Life, be in it? Yes, it would be easier to be in it if we had a job'. Honourable members opposite have invited us to congratulate the Victorian Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation, Brian Dixon, for his initiative in this matter, and I am prepared to do so. Brian Dixon is a fitness fanatic. I recall that on one State parliamentary trip to the Snowy Mountains scheme in the 1960s he used to get up at six o'clock and run for two or three miles before the day started. There is no doubt about his devotion to sport. However, I point out that while he showed the initiative it was the attraction of Federal funds from the then Labor Government that assisted him in taking this initiative. I only wish that in improving the sporting and recreational facilities at local government level he would show a little more kindness in the distribution of grants instead of placing such a heavy load on local government bodies. 
The honourable member for Wilmot mentioned the problems that the urban environment poses in supplying facilities for sporting types of recreation. This is one problem that we have to face up to either at Federal or State level. Not so long ago in my old electorate the East Preston basketball stadium was opened. This provided facilities for hundreds of participants. I am pleased to say that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  was helpful in attaining that building. Although we are in agreement on this program, honourable members on the Government side have tended to refer only to the mass participation aspect of the 'Life. Be In It' campaign. 
I thought that both the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and the honourable member for Grayndler spelt out clearly that there is a two-phase effect of this campaign. There is the mass participation program which provided a basis for the pursuit of excellence, which, has its own particular requirements. This program is aimed at stimulating people in the Australian community to change from being onlookers to participants. A crowd of 120,000 at the Australian Rules football grand final in Melbourne shows that we certainly can claim to be great sport onlookers. I think it is important that we get more into participating in recreation. 
I enjoy the media program that has been running for 'Life. Be In It'. I even enjoy all the stickers, T-shirts and so on that are available. I think that this promotion has been well done. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  spoke of the perception rate of the viewers of much of this media program. He spoke about the perception of the propaganda for health, fitness and exercise purposes. What we do not know is how much of this perception was channelled into activity. That is the important thing. One can perceive what Norm is in the cartoon and stay as Norm, although realising the point that is being made. If that is the case we have achieved a lesson in perception but we have not achieved a translation of that lesson into action. So there is no doubt that there has to be a monitoring of the activity as well as of the perception. 
From the mass participation and the monitoring, many other things flow. There is the medical aspect of convincing people of varying degrees of fitness that their introduction into the scheme should be gradual, that there are limits of exercise for each individual according to his initial physical state. Flowing from the mass participation, we must follow up a health program, for instance, with advice on diet. There has been a lot of talk about the fitness program and facilities in schools, and yet school tuck shops would be the awful example of diet participation in the 'Life. Be In It' program. I can see so many extensions in this sort of area that we should be carrying out. The matter of facility has already been mentioned. 
I am horrified to see on any weekend that I drive through my electorate, and other electorates, school ovals, tennis courts, basketball courts and what have you completely unused when municipal facilities, local government facilities, for football, cricket, soccer and all the other sports are strained to the limit to meet the requirements. Many people are prevented from participating because the facilities are not available, and yet the school facilities lie there. We seem to have a move away not only from physical education in schools but also from having specialist physical education teachers. This is because the physical education teacher is not so useful in making up the margins in mathematics, science and so on when we are concerned with training children. 
Yes, of course it does. They are associated, but I am just saying that the physical education specialists are not getting the prominence that they did, say, in the late 1940s and 1950s. 
Sports medicine has been mentioned. Despite the dedication of a number of people such as Forbes Carlile in swimming, Howard Toyne in athletics with the Olympic team and so on, I think that there is still a great deal that we could do at government level to encourage activity. Between the mass participation that we talked about and the pursuit of excellence that we hoped would flow from it there is a grey area. I think it concerns us but we are not quite certain what can be done about it at a governmental level. Perhaps we ought to air this grey area. It concerns the control of the sport. It is a bit alarming when one reads on page 4 of today's Melbourne  Herald  these comments from Dawn Fraser: 
There are still too many old people in the Swimming Association. They should get out and let younger people have a go- 
The trouble is that those who make the rules don't understand that swimmers are individuals and should be treated as such. 
Anyone who takes up a sport seriously is a disciplined person to start with and certainly doesn't need any more discipline. 
No one could say I was ever unfit and I objected being told what to do by officials who wouldn't know what fitness entails. 
That is one matter with which I am not lumbering the Government, but the fact of the matter is that there are problems in this grey area of the control of sport. Dawn Fraser refers to swimming. In Victoria, the dead hand of the Victorian Football League, the Australian Rules league, applies not only to Victoria but also to the whole of Australia. In pursuit of higher and higher income and more prominence in the game for the 12 teams, it seems to be restricting other leagues and other associations in the other States. I do not think it is doing a satisfactory job in supporting the junior competitions in that very great football game, Australian Rules. 
I have noted particularly the changing attitude to athletics that comes with the provision of facilities. In this regard I am talking about mass participation. I happened to compete in the late 1940s when the conditions were absolutely horrible. One then saw the stimulus that was given in Victoria by the facilities supplied because of the Olympic Games in 1956. The athletes had good facilities. They participated by the hundreds. There were a lot of characters around. I refer to such fellows as Percy Cerutty who answered the challenge that you do not need good facilities and good training to make champions. He clearly showed that there had to be motivation and good training to make champions, and that takes money. Those glorious facilities of 1956 have now faded. Whilst international athletic meets are held in Victoria they never attract the crowds that they drew in those days. 
Having dealt with that grey area, I go on to the area about which we said that mass participation produces a desire for competition. It produces in some athletes this desire for the pursuit of excellence. It is shortsighted in the extreme to say that the facilities that are necessary for mass participation will allow the candidates proper training in pursuit of excellence. Dawn Fraser also had this to say in the article to which I referred earlier: 
Swimming in Australia doesn't offer kids anything. There should be university scholarships and other schemes available so they can study while training. 
Many things have changed in 15 years, but the majority of swimmers then hoped for a scholarship in the United States. That shouldn't be necessary. 
I think we would agree with that statement because whilst my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  was criticised for mentioning the East German experience and what that country is prepared to do for its young people, at the same time Australia and many other countries who cannot use the Eastern bloc are relying on the United States for this training. Australia is not the only country doing that. An article headed 'The Brawn Drain ' in  Newsweek  dated 5 March, refers to Britain in particular. It reads: 
Thompson and fellow British athletes are following a wellworn track to America that scores of athletes from Ireland, New Zealand, Australia, Sweden and several African countries have trod in recent years. 
I think it is regrettable that that occurs. In the past we have been able to attract great coaches. I spoke of Percy Cerutty. I could mention Franz Stampfl and quite a few other coaches of international stature. 
That is right. We are losing coaches because we are not prepared to provide those facilities for the pursuit of excellence. I think it is about time we realised that if we agree with the mass participation program we also have to be prepared to give improved facilities to those athletes who wish to pursue excellence. 
There is another group that we forget about completely when mentioning matters such as these. I refer to the disabled. If we are talking about a mass participation program in the recreational sense, then there is just as much reason to provide some facilities for the disabled. I happen to have a muscular disability which means that unlike my friend, the honourable member for Robertson, I cannot play golf and things like that. 
I am sorry, I mean squash; but it was golf in the past. There are a number of disabled people who need facilities so that they too can be in the 'Life. Be In It' campaign. For goodness sake, this Government does not take the steps necessary to allow them facilities even for their ordinary, everyday life. There are design standards for access to public buildings by the disabled but in all too many cases these have not been implemented. There is complete lack of understanding by Ministers in this regard. I quote from a newsletter of the Northern Region Committee on the Disabled whose secretary is in the suburb of West Heidelberg in Victoria. The newsletter, in commenting on State elections, had this to say: 
Most candidates need educating to our needs as was highlighted recently by the comment of  Mr Rafferty  (then State Minister for Transport) who wrote in reference to the new trams - 
The disabled have been complaining about the steps on trams being too high- 'As the wheels of the trams gradually wear down, the first step height is gradually reduced. I am pleased that the floor height is as low as any in the world and will be slightly lower'. 
For goodness sake, if there is that attitude to the disabled in normal life situations, what hope have they got to be included in the 'Life. Be In It' campaign in the recreational sense! According to this newsletter, our Federal Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  when asked about the erection of ramps at the surgeries of doctors involved in pension medical examinations, had this to say in a letter: . . . further it is considered that the doctors generally would regard the proposition (of ramps) as aesthetically unacceptable and for this reason I doubt that many would be prepared to adopt it, even if the current economic situation enabled the Commonwealth to offer to meet the cost of the work involved. 
What a complete lack of understanding of a group in our community! Is the 'Life. Be In It' campaign just for the normal individual or is it supposed to apply to all citzens? What hope have we got of adapting a program to suit all when socalled responsible Ministers at State and Federal level adopt this attitude to normal day-to-day faculties. It is a ridiculous attitude. I am grateful that this debate has been brought forward, even though there has been some disagreement amongst speakers from both sides of the House. It has given an opportunity to raise a number of matters in the field of sport and recreation and we look forward to the developments of the next few years. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 9 November 1978: 
Because of representations I have received, I refer the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to recent decisions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal regarding three public broadcasting licences for Melbourne. I ask: Will the Tribunal publish reasons for giving licences? Are transcripts of the Tribunal's hearings copyright to the Tribunal or are they available for public scrutiny? When will the next applications for public broadcasting licences be called? 
-I ask the Minister for Finance: Did he say on Melbourne radio station 3AW on Friday, 9 March, that married women are responsible for much unemployment among males? If so, did the Minister mean that when a woman marries she should no longer want employment? Is it the Government's aim to ensure that there are jobs for all married women who want work or does it have an alternative aim? 
I wish to enter the debate briefly. From the outset, I point out that I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  and oppose the original motion and the other amendments moved to it. We all talk about this issue as an issue that is clouded by emotion. Of course it is. I do not think that any of us can fail to be emotionally involved in this issue. There has been quite a mailing campaign from groups with views on various sides of this issue. One of the things I resent about all such groups is their implication that unless I agree with their points of view I am without conscience. I am very much with conscience. On this soil of issue it is one's own conscience with which one has to live. It is one's own easy conscience which allows one to sleep easy at night. 
This problem is not terribly new to me. I remember it from my days as a medical student. I graduated in medicine in 1952. Although I have been in politics for a long time, I have kept an interest in medical practice. My medical practice has been in the areas of the low to modest income groups. I have seen the problems that arise there. I entered the Victorian Parliament in the 1 960s. During my time there the law which dealt with this matter was most unclear. It was contained in the Crimes Act, which effectively covered the immediate physical danger of death. But the law with regard to other factors, such as mental health, relied on the 1939 decision in R. v. Bourne. That was the decision of a single judge of the King's Bench Division. Hence it was only persuasive and very uncertain. At that time I introduced a private member's Bill into the Victorian Parliament to attempt to elucidate the legal position. I think that that was the proper course to follow and it is to the discredit of that Parliament that it has never debated this issue and taken responsibility for the legislation. 
However, as has been mentioned by other speakers, at least in Victoria the situation was cleared somewhat in 1969 by the Menhennitt ruling in R. v. Davidson. Again, this was a ruling that was only persuasive, but one against which there has been no appeal and under which termination of pregnancy has been performed in 
Victoria for the last 10 years. It is easy enough for people to say that a doctor who talks on these sorts of issues has some sort of personal and financial involvement. In all my years of medical practice I have given anaesthetics for two terminations of pregnancy, but I have had dozens of cases on which I have had to give advice. I have taken those cases seriously because eventually it is the woman's decision whether she has the termination. How a doctor advises and counsels is his decision. I have always adopted the attitude that the most expert doctor should be the one to advise and counsel- in this case, it should be the specialist. 
This motion, effectively, in the guise of referring to funding, is trying by changing the funding arrangements to alter the law of the States and the Territories. If the law is to be changed, the proper place for this to be done is the legislatures of the States and the Territories. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  raised that matter and that is one point on which we agree on this issue. I accept the proposition of the honourable member for McMillan that if the medical procedure is legal it should attract funding from the insurance societies. I accept that there are some insurance funds which, because of their origins and beliefs, can claim exemption from the payment of such benefits. But their subscribers know that they have claimed such exemptions. 
We have to realise that, in considering the effect of the procedure, it is no good talking about just the physical pathological condition. Anyone who has had to deal with the problem can appreciate the tension of broken families, broken homes and broken minds that can occur with unwanted pregnancies. The effect is not suffered only by the woman; it is suffered by the family- the children and the other parent- and society generally. We must take note of some of those effects. There is the matter of the doctorpatient relationship, which is tied up in the second part of the original motion. I feel that there are times when perhaps we take the doctorpatient relationship too far. But in a very personal, moral, judgment situation such as this there should be no suggestion that patient-doctor confidentiality should be breached. The law is there. If the law is to be enforced it is for the law enforcement agencies to do so. 
If the original motion is carried we will return to the bad old days. What were those bad old days like? As an argument in favour of the motion we were told that so many terminations of pregnancy are performed a year. How many terminations of pregnancy were performed in 
Australia in 1965? No honourable member can tell me that because the vast majority of the terminations of pregnancy then were illegal- either back yard terminations or terminations performed by avaricious doctors in clinics which they set up for themselves. 
-I will come to that in a moment. The use of figures is irrelevant when we do not have a base line with which to compare them. Then we had the suggestion that there might be inequality between the well-off and the poor but the poor can go to public hospitals. That completely overlooks the fact that today our public hospitals have inadequate facilities to handle the demands that are made of them. Not only are they inadequate to handle the demands that are made of them across the board but also if the suggestion were adopted it would place pressure in a skew way on the facilities. There would be overemphasis on this matter. In the public hospitals there would be problems of adjusting the facilities to cope with increased use for such purposes. There would even be trouble with the staff because a number would want to opt out for conscientious reasons. That has always been accepted. So such a procedure would help to wreck a public hospital system which already has its problems in handling its cases. 
As I said before, those people with means would be able to have a termination. There would be two classes of care. Avaricious doctors would be encouraged by the well-off. What would be the alternatives for the poor? They would be, for example, for the poor to return to the old days of the backyarders I saw when I was a medical student. There would be a repetition of cases such as that of the girl who died four hours after admission because a friendly old crone had terminated the pregnancy with a hen's feather and the girl got a gas gangrene infection which, even today, is pretty impossible to stop; or the case of the girl who died from a perforated uterus because the backyarder used a knitting needle which, with a lack of knowledge of anatomy, will perforate the womb. They are the sorts of incidents that we risk occurring unless we can be certain that the people concerned can obtain proper care, counselling and the facilities which are needed. 
The honourable member for MacMillan mentioned the problem of a girl who was the victim of incest. In the course of my practice a 16-year- old female, one of a family of eight, came to me pregnant to her father. Surely in such a case that girl should receive a medical benefit. After counselling takes place and it is determined that the pregnancy should be terminated, it is disgraceful to think that no benefit is payable to her or that she will be told to go to a public hospital. In her circumstance, what is needed is sensitivity, support and consideration so that this 16-year-old girl can enjoy in a reasonable manner the years that are ahead of her. After all, a living death in a state of mental upset and so on can be almost as bad as physical death. 
The sort of attitude expressed in the original motion could very well be extended to other matters. Perhaps we could impose our rules on contraceptive advice. Perhaps the pill should be removed from the pharmaceutical benefits list. Perhaps no benefit should be paid in the case of a vasectomy being performed. I understand that there is a moral crime of suicide. What of the alcoholics and the drug takers who know that they are deliberately leading themselves to premature death? Is it proposed to prevent them from obtaining medical benefits? Is it intended to prevent from obtaining medical benefits the alcoholic who drives a motor car and smashes himself up? These are the same sorts of moral judgments as the motion before the House is asking us to make. There should be no back door legislation of this type. If we want to change the legality of the governing legislation, we should do it in the proper manner We should face up to the situation bluntly by debating the matter and passing amending legislation. 
I noticed in passing in this morning's  Age  an article written by Claude Forell: I liked this paragraph: 
If Federal MPs were genuinely concerned to discourage abortion, they would be better advised to press for more generous family allowances and support for single mothers, and to promote sex education and family planning. 
Well they might, if they wish to relieve some people of the agony and the emotional distress that they suffer in these circumstances. 
-Does the honourable member wish to make a personal explanation? 
-The matters I want to deal with in the Grievance Debate may not be matters of great national policy but I believe that they are matters of national concern and compassion. One of the problems in raising them is that I have to raise them in the qualitative sense because I am not able to raise them in a quantitative sense as there are no figures on them. This Government instituted the Community Youth Support Scheme- CYSS- and in my electorate we set up the Preston employment action group as part of this scheme. It has operated in the way intended by the Government when it was set up. My electorate assistant,  Mr Kevin  Hardiman, was appointed by me as  chairman  of that group. One of the matters about which I am concerned is the feedback one gets from these CYSS programs. That group recently expressed concern at the high level of homeless, unemployed youth visiting the centre for assistance in gaining shelter. 
I have found not only that that group is expressing concern but also that some local churchmen are having the same experience with homeless, unemployed youth finding themselves looking for refuge at night because they have been rejected by their families as a result of their unemployed state and so on. This view was reinforced by a recent radio program on a Sunday morning on 3UZ in Melbourne. One of the announcers who reports on the events of the night came across in his rounds a number of these unemployed, homeless youth in a variety of situations, such as shopping centre car parks, where they were endeavouring to find some shelter and rest. One of the things that concern me is that most of our efforts are directed towards providing emergency housing for underprivileged groups, but here we have more of a refuge situation. As I have said, it is qualitative matter; I cannot put a quantitative figure on it. 
Having raised that matter, I want to raise an associated matter I could mention and then to suggest some action that perhaps should be taken. I have been concerned with another organisation that is conducting a fairly low-key drug awareness program with community groups. I have also recently been concerned with the setting up of Odyssey House-type community therapy treatment for people on drugs in Melbourne. So I am reasonably sensitive to this sort of issue. It would appear that there has been a marked increase in dabbling in abusive drugs amongst this group in the community. This is not surprising because there is a profile for drug abusers and amongst the factors that lead to that profile are economic and social disadvantage. Because of that disadvantage there is a failure to be able to accept and respect the standards and views of parental and associated groups. Conversely, one of the problems is parental failure to accept the variation in standards of young people. Of course, this often leads to the eviction of the young people from their homes and accentuates the problem of refuge about which I talked earlier. In poverty there is also the tendency to experiment with drugs for some relief from that problem. 
In the suburban, high youth unemployment, areas of Melbourne, at any rate, there appears to have been a marked increase in drug abuse. I was speaking to my colleague, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  about the matter this morning. He reported to me that he is getting the same sort of feedback on the drug problem in his area, which has a similar residential set-up to that in my own electorate. Obviously the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has some points for reference on this matter in the CYSS scheme and other organisations which deal with these matters. Two of them have been highlighted. The homeless, unemployed youths are looking for shelter for a night and somewhere to rest. I suppose one could say if they are not able to get refuge of this nature it is no wonder that when they go for jobs the employers comment on their untidy appearance. These young people just do not have a hope of preparing themselves properly when they have no appropriate refuge. 
I suggest that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs should consider the points of reference he already has. He should consider appointing a small mobile task force to look into these types of problems, to find the extent of the problems in different areas and to suggest solutions. Those solutions may reside at both the State and federal levels. It is a matter for urgent action. It is not a matter where great expenditure is involved but it is a matter where, with the policies of the Government leading to an increase in the number of unemployed youth, there is a responsibility to try to assay it in a quantitative manner. 
Having mentioned the unemployed youth, I now want to go to the other end of the time scale and deal with some of the problems of the aged in geriatric institutions. We have had a number of reports on what should be done about the aged. We had the Social Welfare Commission's report of about 1975 and a year or so later this Government appointed a task force to comment on that. But there are many areas that are not being dealt with. One of these areas is that of chair-fast geriatric patients. There are patients who have some degree of mobility and who are in a geriatric institution and have the facilities to get outside that institution to visit families and their old homes and have some experience of what life is like outside. However, in the geriatric institutions, there is a larger percentage of old people who are chair-fast, who either have to remain in bed or in a wheelchair because they cannot be transferred to normal vehicles. I have found that there is little provision of a special type of ambulance- the chair-fast ambulancewhich has a hydraulic lift that can lift wheelchairs into the ambulance and allows these people to go outside the institutional walls and have some contact with the outside world. Although under the new federalism policy we seem to be saying all the time in this Parliament that this is a job for States, the fact of the matter is that the States are not doing it. Through our social security services we should look at this problem and help an underprivileged group of people. 
-I indicate at the outset that the Opposition does not oppose this Bill. Tasmania is an appropriate State for this type of agreement. However, we do have some criticisms about the financial arrangements. We believe that they are rather niggardly. Let me draw a comparison between the financial arrangements made for native forestry and those for softwood forestry. My belief is that, considering the cropping time of the native forests- for the hardwood forests it is between 60 and 80 years- the 20-year deferment of loan repayments period is rather short, even acknowledging that the repayments are spread over 40 years. I think the agreement for native forestry fares rather badly when compared with that for softwood forestry. That is not the only criticism. Some criticism could be levelled on environmental factors at both the Federal and State governments. That will come out in the general debate. 
On this particular matter one thing that I would like to express is the surprise at the general lack of interest in this type of environmental subject. Several years ago this Bill would have attracted a lot of attention and concern, not only from the House but also from outside interests. It would appear that concern for environmental matters is well down the drain. Forestry is a very interesting area because it encompasses so many factors. It encompasses natural resources, economics, employment, flora, fauna and the use of exotics, and there are aesthetic and other factors. I refer the House to the report of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation of May 1975 on the operation of Softwood Forestry Agreements Acts. We find some comments there that indicate that all forms of development are being questioned as to their environmental effects. The softwood planting program, as fostered by the legislation under review, is one such issue. The report states: 
The particular aspect that arouses concern is that large areas of Australia 's native forest- 
That is what this legislation deals with- and all that it contains and represents, are being cleared to make way for the establishment of exotic plantations. There is also considerable concern that this development is proceeding apace without adequate safeguards being taken and without proper research into the long term effects of it, especially those which impinge on soil and water resources, both being natural assets with which this country is not well endowed. 
Concern has been expressed by those who question the economics of extensive softwood plantings in Australia and by those who doubt its social value. 
It continues: 
On the other hand there are those in the timber industry who believe that the timber resources of Australia- and those of some of our traditional overseas suppliers- have been rapidly depleted. They see the need for Australia to protect itself against future shortages by embarking on an entensive program of plantation development using fast growing, highly productive softwood species suitable for a wide range of uses. 
That was the sort of conflict that existed at the time and the problem to which one had to apply oneself. In doing that it is inevitable that one has to turn to this question of native forestry and hardwoods. We welcome the fact that this shows now some concern with regard to native forestry. It would appear to be a fairly restrictive measure and I point out that it applies principally to a eucalypt monoculture on marginal farm land. So in that sense we are not speaking strictly of a native forest; we are speaking of eucalypt tree farms on marginal farm land, which is a worthwhile venture in itself. Environmentally and economically it is not necessarily wide enough in its scope. There is provision for regeneration after fire damage and the work done there. There is also the question of the thinning of blackwood regeneration so that it is properly carried out for ultimate yield. That may be good economic and environmental management. 
For biological and economic purposes Tasmania is a good State within which to start this program but it needs extension into other States. Tasmania is well endowed with native hardwood. It is the base for several paper manufacturers which require not only the hardwood supply, but in addition, the long-fibred softwoods. This particular industry is vital to the economy of Tasmania. I trust that my colleague the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  will have an opportunity to speak on the economic aspects of this because he and a number of other members of the House have travelled to these places and have looked at this problem of native forestry. 
For some years Tasmania's hardwood forests have been replanted and regenerated. They have a great deal of experience in this. Tasmania's hardwood timber resources have an important role in the total future needs of Australia. Back in 1975 it was already supplying 15 per cent of the nation's sawn wood and 75 per cent of its pulp. There is no reason why it cannot make a larger contribution to the needs of Australia on a controlled basis. It is necessary that strict management procedures should be inforced and are not relaxed in response to economic pressures. Some of the factors that come into that can be discussed as we go along. 
The Environment and Conservation Committee at that time indicated that the financial assistance given to Tasmania on the forestry program should include provision for more emphasis to the purchase of marginal land and to the regeneration of hardwood forests. At last some steps are being taken in this direction, which we applaud. If we take on further the report of the Environment and Conservation Committee we seem to accept that our timber resources are large. In fact as that committee found Australia's timber resources are relatively small and should be conserved in the long-term interests of the nation. 
Another thing that is happening in those areas where there are intensive forestry activities is that there is insufficient research into the effects upon the flora, fauna, the soil of the area and the water supplies, and what happens where large areas of native forest are clear-felled and are not properly harvested and regenerated. That is a subject of some concern and it is something that should be written into this type of agreement. At that time there was insufficient use of marginal farm land. This gives an opportunity for some of that to be corrected. As I have said, Tasmania is a good State to start with in regard to the regeneration of hardwoods. 
I am disturbed at this loss of environmental interest, particularly in the forest area which cover such a wide scope. In 1975 there was a growing public awareness of the value of native forests for scientific, educational and recreational purposes but this wider overview seems to have been completely lost. I hope that we can stimulate fresh interest in the research and concern in those areas. The Committee of Environment and Conservation found that the forestry and timber industries were important elements in the decentralisation process and were substantial employers of manpower in rural areas where employment opportunities were limited. That is why the Tasmanian agreement is so important. 
In the long term it supplies employment prospects. It helps the economy of an island State and helps some of those less densely populated areas. 
In referring to the report I would remind honourable members that it recommended that immediate consideration should be given to providing financial assistance to the States for the regeneration of hardwood areas in a way that would ensure the maintenance of forest diversity and other environmental values. I do not know that this agreement completely does that. The first aim seems to be the monoculture of eucalypts. The diversity seems to be secondary to that. I hope that we will be able to progress to a situation where we take more notice of the forest diversity and the environmental factors. We should be able to examine our at present undedicated forests in Tasmania to assess their timber potential on a sustained yield basis so that we can correct problems which have occurred in the past and which we must face up to now. 
I regret that insufficient work is done in biological survey to be able to realise the true biological effects of much of this element. This agreement raises broad environmental factors as well as the question of employment and economic opportunities in a small State. It is an economic and employment weapon that could be used in rural areas in other States. I hope that this example will be set. I utter the warning that there will be need for further biological survey and constant environmental monitoring if the program is to be properly successful. Whilst the monoculture of eucalypts has more commercial appeal because it is easier, with reafforestation programs we should try for a natural forest diversity which I think would have much greater beneficial effects. 
I turn to the effects on the wildlife in these hardwood areas. A lot is known about the botanical state of these areas but very little is known about the zoological state. We are told that lost native forestry can be replaced by a biological shelter created by the planting of exotics. Frankly, I do not believe that. I believe we have to watch the problem created for our native forestry when the clear felling of the native forest removes the habitat of so many dependent species, thus spelling their extinction. Into these sorts of agreements we should have a cooperative Commonwealth-State relationship carrying on research, with the primary task of ensuring that such hardwood reafforestation is accompanied by the preservation of all those biological values that were there before. 
It may even be that in addition to these three factors in the native forestry program mentioned in the speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  some of the Victorian examples may be followed. In Victoria, where there is clear felling and softwoods being planted, strips of native forest are being left along streams and waterways, along ridges and between plantation blocks to provide native forest corridors in an attempt to maintain the native forest diversity and also to preserve the biological balance that is there. I can but quote from a report by Professor Specht, published in the  Australian Journal of Botany, Supplementary Series No. 7, July 1974,  where he states: 
Man's control over ecosystems and thus over evolution is increasingly taking the place of natural selection. Domesticated plants and animals have virtually lost their capacity for existence- let alone continuing evolution- without human assistance; and environments have been so drastically modified that large numbers of species, plant and animal, have been exterminated through loss of habitats . . . 
That is a cause for concern. Frankel concluded: 
We have acquired evolutionary responsibility. 
In order to exercise this responsibility wisely we must learn how ecosystems work- not just how a monoculture of domesticated plants such as wheat, sugar-cane, or radiata pine grows, but how all complex, and usually perennial ecosystems function. Over long periods of evolutionary time, a subtle balance has been achieved between the environment and the producers, consumers, and decomposers in these natural ecosystems . . . The understanding of the productivity and maintenance ... of ecosystems will enable them to be manipulated scientifically for the welfare of mankind. 
My criticism of this Bill has been based mainly on its restrictive environmental nature and, further, on the rather niggardly attitude of the States concerning the period of repayment of the amount involved. I am concerned at this loss of feeling for environmental values. They are not just matters of green issues or 'bleeding heart' effects. What is involved is knowledge of environmental matters and an examination of our marvellous resources, such as timber, a material that is so much a part of our every day life and is so useful in all that we do. It is a matter of having the knowledge of the ecosystems concerned and being able to manipulate them scientifically so as to preserve not only the aesthetic values and the biological values but all the economic and other values that flow from it. 
-I wonder whether I can get the honourable member away from Canberra and down to Tasmania, which is the subject of the Bill. 
So there is a good deal to be said for supporting any move by a government that will cause an increase in native eucalypt forests. This must be done selectively. The Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Adermann),  who is sitting at the table, would know something about the waste of $30m in sustaining native forests in the Northern Territory, which waste was revealed by the Standing Committee on Expenditure. I am pleased to say that that would not happen in Tasmania because there are not the same difficult climatic conditions that the forestry program encountered in the Northern Territory. 
If I may return to the Bill under discussion, having wandered, I am afraid, the Tasmanian Native Forestry Agreement Bill 1979 proposes to introduce a scheme whereby the Commonwealth and Tasmanian governments co-operate in the development of a program of native forestry. This program is a direct result of the 1977 report by  Sir Bede  Callaghan, referred to by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  concerning the structure of industry and employment in Tasmania. This report stressed, amongst other things, the importance of the forestry industry to the Tasmanian economy both in terms of profitability and in terms of employment opportunities. Actually the remarks of the honourable member are pertinent because Tasmanian forests account for about 30 per cent of the gross value of all primary production in the State and also for about 30 per cent of all the value added by secondary industry with paper production of course in the forefront. It is therefore obvious that the Tasmanian forestry industry is worthy of Federal Government assistance. For this reason the Opposition supports the Bill. 
However, having said that, I would add that the Opposition supports the Bill with reservations, as I believe the Tasmanian Government does. These reservations concern the specific proposals put forward in the Bill for the financing of the Tasmanian forestry program. As I understand it the Bill provides for loans of up to $136,000 a year for five years, a total of $680,000, with expenditure matched on a dollar for dollar basis by the State Government. No interest or capital is repayable for a period of 20 years. After this time, however, the interest compounded is payable in a lump sum. The capital is repayable in half yearly instalments over the next 40 years although repayments may be made earlier, and hopefully they would be made earlier. In the second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  failed to clarify this method of repayment any further than that. Specifically it is not clear whether further interest is payable on the outstanding balance at the end of the 20 years. I would be grateful if the Minister could in reply or during the Committee stage elucidate whether interest is payable on the outstanding balance at the end of the 20 years. 
I am also concerned about the accuracy of the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry that 'repayments of capital and interest at the same rate are made in the subsequent 40 years on a six-monthly basis'. The Tasmanian Government has expressed concern at the financial terms of the Bill, although it recognises the importance of the forestry program. This concern is based upon the manner in which the funding agreement was drawn up. Prior to 1978, a satisfactory scheme for the development of softwood forests was operating in Tasmania. When this agreement ended last year, funds were provided for the maintenance of existing pine plantations. The interest on these funds dated from the beginning of the agreement because these trees were already grown and ready for harvesting. The same maintenance formula was applied to the new agreement for hardwoods. However, the circumstances between the two projects vary greatly. Instead of a partly mature forest already being harvested, the forests being dealt with under the new scheme are newly planted and returns could not be expected for some decades. The Tasmanian Government thus sought a 20 year moratorium on interest and capital repayments similar to the 10 year moratorium which had operated under the softwood agreement. This previous moratorium worked most successfully as has been demonstrated by the stimulus given to the Tasmanian industry by the commissioning of new pulping plants and by the creation of new jobs. The terms of the new agreement do not appear to be as conducive to stimulating the industry as was the last scheme. 
One further area of doubt that I have concerns the cost of administering the provisions of this Bill over a 60 year period. It seems possible that the administrative costs could be as great as the loan itself which is, I admit, only a maximum of $680,000. The costs of administering the loan over 40 or 60 years would probably amount to more than the loan itself. Nevertheless, as I stated at the outset of this speech, the Opposition recognises the need to upgrade the Tasmanian forestry industry and accepts the Bill for that reason. We support the Bill largely because of our concern for the people of Tasmania. We are often criticised in this House for not worrying about Tasmania, but such is not the case. I assure the Tasmanian people and the Tasmanian members of this Parliament that we on this side of the House have great concern for the Tasmanian people. 
-The honourable member may be offending against the Standing Orders too. 
I have two passports. One is an official government passport. My name is James, not Harry M. Miller. I am not able to get a diplomatic passport. We have been told in the House that  Mr Miller  obtained a diplomatic passport. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has no doubt come into the chamber to deny or to confirm that story or to excuse himself for being a party- this was alleged earlier- to getting Harry M. Miller a diplomatic passport which ordinary members of this House are not entitled to get. 
TERRORISTS and spies are freely entering and leaving Australia on false passports, a police forgery expert claimed yesterday. 

 Mr James Buglio, of the Commonwealth Police Document Examination Bureau, said the passports were expertly forged and undetectable. 
He added that it was known CIA and KGB agents used false documents. 

 Mr Buglio, who spoke at a forensic science symposium in Adelaide, said later he examined about 300 suspected false passports a year, most of them being used by illegal migrants. 
He said the introduction of a standardised passport that included fingerprints could help minimise forgeries, and said greater use should also be made of forgery experts and special detection equipment at passport checkpoints. 
I believe that members of this House should heed those wise submissions by a responsible police officer of the Commonwealth Police Document Examination Bureau in the hope, and in the interests of the community as a whole, that corporate crime and the illicit drug trade that is ruining the lives of thousands of young Australians might be minimised. We find that it is easy for Harry M. Miller to get a diplomatic passport from a government to which he has political allegiance. I remember the difficulty experienced not so many years ago by Wilfred Burchett, a dedicated Australian. He could not have his passport replaced after it was stolen from him- the Central Intelligence Agency was suspected- while attending a conference in Bandung. 
Anyone who knows Wilfred Burchett knows that he is a forthright and honest journalist. Because of his forthrightness he could not get a job with the Austraiian media. He would not write what the editors wanted him to write. He insisted on writing the truth as he saw it. The submission I make was prompted by the article in the  Australian  to which I have referred. I think that all Australian citizens voluntarily submitting to having their thumb prints put on their passports, in the latter part of the twentieth century, would be an onward step towards minimising the illegal use of passports by criminals, would-be criminals and drug traffickers. I support the proposed amendments to be moved by the Labor Party and the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
-The honourable member for Barker is reminded that all interjections are disorderly and that he is not yet a member of the front bench and should occupy his proper seat in the House. 
In addition, the Commonwealth sees value in the definition of practicable and realistic air quality objectives for Australian cities which would be based on broader environmental considerations. 
Nowhere does the Minister define what realistic air quality objectives are. In fact, governments around this nation are arguing every day over that matter. We are discussing it here this afternoon, but there is no definition and there is no statement by this Government on what qualities of air pollution are satisfactory to it. What is practicable and what is realistic? What are the broader environmental considerations? Should the Government be kowtowing again to the motor vehicle manufacturers in America, or giving incentive and encouragement to those motor vehicle manufacturers in Australia who have met the standards, who have planned to meet the standards, and have acted in a proper and responsible way? The Opposition rejects the statement. We believe that there is no substantiation or support for the claims made by the Minister in his statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Roger  Johnston) adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Did the right honourable gentleman say in bis address to the Australian Mining Industry Council on Monday night that attempts by some countries to insulate their economies from movements in international oil prices had led them to use excessive amounts of energy and made their ultimate adjustment to reality more painful? If so, does this indicate the Government's willingness to adjust Australian prices to the full reality of the latest change in pricing by the Organisation of Petroleum Export Countries that is, the general price rise plus the new quality premium? What does the Government envisage will be the effect on petrol prices as a result of these changes? 
-The following nominations of members to the legislation committee to consider the Customs Amendment Bill have been received. Government members are  Mr Fife  (member in charge of the Bill),  Mr Carlton, Mr Chapman, Mr Hyde, Mr Lusher, Mr McLean, Sir William  McMahon, 

 Mr McVeigh, Mr Ian Robinson,  Mr Shipton  and  Mr Short.  Opposition members are  Dr Blewett, Mr Lionel  Bowen,  Mr Hurford, Mr Jacobi  and  Dr Klugman. 
I am entering the debate briefly. 1 know my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  wishes to make a short contribution and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  (Mr Fife),  wants to reply before 6 p.m., so we have not got a great deal of time. I refer to the Minister's statement in the second reading speech that the Bill is not directed against the victims of drug traffic for whom we all have the greatest sympathy and concern. Government programs in the health, education and welfare fields are actively seeking to assist these persons. Over the last 12 months I have been conducting a drug awareness program for one of the community service groups. I am aware of some of the material that is available through the Commonwealth and State health education centres on this matter, and there is excellent material there. I am happy to say that the programs are not being conducted on a sensational basis, but are on a low key, sensitive and sensible basis. This measure deals with fighting the drug trade and the enforcement of penalties and assistance for detection. There is no doubt that these penalties will help as a deterrent or that the measures to increase detection will result in a larger number of people being convicted. Unfortunately, I believe it will be only the relatively minor offenders who will be detected under these circumstances. 
The punitive measures have been used in the United States of America for some years and there are many who wax rich on the tragedy that occurs to human beings. They are the big boys. They are not detected. They live untouched with their money involved in stocks and shares and other legitimate businesses. I raise that because of the difficulty we have in Australia in policing the drug traffic. On previous occasions I have mentioned the problems which we have with our vast coastline in the north west and in Queensland. I want to raise briefly with the House whether we should not be considering how we could best carry out a scheme such as existed in the United Kingdom for some time and which exists in Sweden where there is a decriminalisation for the drug abuser, not the drug pusher. As the Minister points out, the profit motive is what is so important in this area and it seems to me that a properly conducted decriminalising program for the drug abuser may be more effective than increased penalties. The international scene concerns me in this area of detection. We hear about great co-operation with other countries and yet everyone knows the major source of these drugs is the Golden Triangle and so on. One wonders, if there is such cooperation between the international police forces and detection agencies, how the hell these drugs get out of those known areas of production. 
I would like to refer briefly to the fact that in discussing drug problems the profit motive applies just as much to the question of licit drugs- as I think our colleague the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  termed them- such as the analgesics, the alcohol and the tobacco. Whilst these hard drugs may be a major social problem, I suggest that the statistics would show that those licit drugs relying on the profit motive contribute to a much more major social problem than do the hard drugs. It is about time that we started talking about them. I read an article recently that the new teenage drug in the United States is alcohol because it is seen as socially acceptable amongst the older age group. For the same underlying causes of parental rejection, economic upset, et cetera, the kids take to alcohol. They join the peer groups that are also taking alcohol and then get into the other drugs. It is alleged that 3.3 million high school students in the United States have this sort of alcoholic problem. I would like to take it further, but I also would like my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor, to have the opportunity to speak, so I cede the floor to him. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-One becomes used to the speeches of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  in this House. At first his remarks contain quite an element of common sense but then, for some reason, he goes off. I do not know whether that happens when the moon reaches a certain phase, but he certainly suffers from retrograde amnesia. In relation to the years 1949 to 1972- a time of buoyant world-wide economic growth and progress, which was reflected in Australia- he completely forgets the omissions that were then made by his brothers under the skin in politics. 
I welcome the opportunity to enter the debate on the Government's response to the report of the Select Committee on Tourism. One would be less than generous if one did not congratulate the Committee, which met during the terms of two parliaments and which produced that report. The report has proved to be a sound basis for discussion. One must also be generous in congratulating the Government upon accepting the principle of reporting to parliament what happens to Committee reports. 
The Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System had cause to comment on the frustration felt by committee members from both sides of the chamber in trying to discover what had happened to reports. I must concur in the statement made by the Minister for Industry and 
Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  when presenting the report. He said: 
Until recently the concept of travel or tourism as representing an integrated and recognisable industry- an industry in the traditional Australian sense- has not been accepted by the Australian people. 
I might add that it was not accepted by Australian governments either. It seems to me that initiatives that were taken during 1972 and 1975 particularly by the late Frank Stewart, when he was Minister for Tourism and Recreation- he was a member of the Select Committee in the Thirtieth Parliament- are really bearing fruit. Prior thereto the national basis of the industry had been ignored and promotion had been left to the States and to commercial organisations. It seems that the Government finally has seen the light now that we lag mere decades behind what has happened in comparable countries. 
I recall in the early 1960s visiting New Zealand as a member of the Statute Law Revision Committee of the Victorian Parliament. That Committee, amongst other things, looked into the attitude of the New Zealand Government and the mechanisms that existed at that time in the tourist industry. New Zealand certainly appreciated the fact that tourism was extremely significant as far as its balance of payments was concerned- and one knows that New Zealand has problems in that area. It was certainly earning significant amounts of foreign exchange and it was worth while promoting. 
The statement of the Minister refers to the compelling need to provide new hotels of international standard in the capital cities of several States. I guess New Zealand has not quite the problems of distance that we have in Australia. However, in the early 1 960s it recognised, as part of a deliberate program, that the development of high-class accommodation was important. The industry was encouraged to do this in several ways- as a governmental project, on a consortium basis with private industry, or by supplying substantial long term loans to private entrepreneurs at favourable rates of interest. This raised substantially the standard and number of such facilities available in New Zealand. 
The aim was not simply to obtain first-class luxury accommodation. A much greater flexibility is to be found in the units provided. For example, the unit available for families at many of these places of accommodation centres supplied, say, a couple of bedrooms, a sitting room with a convertible bed settee, a reasonably equipped kitchen and a bathroom. This accommodation was moderate in standard but comfortable. It formed part of the ordinary motel complex and opportunity was given the family either to care for itself or to be given service. Frankly, I see none of this type of incentive being given at either Federal or State level in Australia. 
The Minister spoke of State responsibility in regard to tourism. The first investigation that was made by the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation was into the Uluru or Ayers Rock National Park. Its report was presented in 1973. There is no doubt that the rock and the adjoining Olgas are a major attraction to overseas tourists. Most of the people who inquire about Australia, as well as potential tourists to Australia, ask about the rock. However, there is also no doubt that visits by increasing numbers of tourists have gravely threatened such scenic features and their surroundings. In 1976 the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation reported on the progress that had been made in relation to the recommendations made by the earlier committee. Some progress had been made. However, the principal need for the protection of the environment in that area is the relocation of the air strip and the village. 
It is urgent, yet little has happened except for the presentation of plan after plan, and recommendation after recommendation. It seems to be beyond the wit of the Federal Government and of the Northern Territory Administration to reach agreement, to provide finance and to get on with the job of protecting this vital scenic and historic area which provides- I accentuate this- so much of the financial structure of that part of the Northern Territory. Unless action is taken quickly, effectively and decisively, the financial advantage of this ideal tourist attraction will be only transitory and not the persistent and continuing source of finance that it ought to be in the Centre. 
Essential to Australia's tourism industry is the question to which most honourable members have referred, namely, that of air fares. However, most honourable members overlook one fact concerning air fares. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  believes strongly that the group which made lower air fares possible and which can claim credit for them is that which introduced the Boeing-747 and DC- 10- the wide-bodied aircraft which permit the mass transportation of people. Once these aircraft, with their great advantages and large numbers of seats, became available for international travel and tourist purposes some thought had to  be given to how one was to get backsides on seats. 
In other countries the introduction of these aircraft forced fares down at a very early stage. To that extent, Australia has lagged behind. Certainly, because of the great distances involved in travelling to Australia, and within it, we have an apparently high fare structure. Although I accept what my respected colleague from Newcastle has said about cheapness of fares based on cost per mile, the problem of great distances remains. A flight from Melbourne to Ayers Rock, or from Melbourne to the Great Barrier Reef, involves travelling vast distances. To reach our main scenic attractions we have to travel great distances compared with those travelled by Europeans and Americans to reach the scenic centres in Europe and North America. The attempt to lower air fare structures may have another advantage. Perhaps it will cut out the clandestine kickbacks that were so rife in the airline industry and which appeared, to me and to many others, to disadvantage our national flag carrier, Qantas Airways Ltd, which certainly has never been accused of indulging in such procedures. Most of the feedback on the lower international fares seems to be to persons leaving Australia. For example, an item on page 2 of today's Melbourne  Herald  states: 
Queues at airline offices in Melbourne have become so long because of the incredible increase in passengers travelling on cheap fares that one man had to wait a week before he could pay for his ticket. 
He went to Qantas offices three times before he was able to wait long enough to pay. 
He said there was a wait of at least half-an-hour as passengers sat in the offices eating their lunches. 
It 's like a disaster zone in here, ' said one of the ticket staff. 
That indicates the increased demand in Australia. If the demand is so great and the shortage so acute, surely further urgent consideration is required as to how we are going to handle this situation. I am not inclined to the argument for a completely open ended arrangement for air travel, as our national carrier and our airline and aeroplane maintenance industry needs some protection for employment reasons. The opposing argument of increased employment opportunity in the tourist industry is not sufficient. How do these lower fares work overseas? Are our overseas travellers suffering the same frustrations in obtaining passage at the reduced fares? Whilst the reduced fares may have been successful in rilling the empty seats, is this the limit of the increase that is going to be allowed? 
About eight weeks ago I received a letter from friends on the east coast of the United States who stated that they had noted the changed fare structure of flights to Australia and hoped to visit us in August. A request had been made to their travel agent but since then there has been complete silence. Does this mean that people overseas who are seeking reduced fares are faced with the delays and frustrations that we are facing here? Is the increase in tourist trade to be strictly limited? The Minister spoke about the request to the domestic airlines to introduce a more innovative fare structure. He cited advance purchase excursion fares and a 30 per cent discount for passengers travelling on standby. Neither of these schemes is beneficial to the international tourist; they are beneficial only to the domestic tourist. They are beneficial to those who have mobility- largely the young- to travel within Australia. They really are not an attractive proposition for overseas tourists. The advance purchase scheme places a rigidity on travel for international tourists and the standby situation is scarcely suitable for them. 
There is much more that I would like to say about tourism. I think that one of the problems at which we should be looking in relation to the fare structure, both domestic and international, is that it does not satisfy the requirements of tourists for the complete year. It is a sporadic, seasonal thing. We are not applying it so that we will get the maximum number of tourists and the maximum advantages, in foreign exchange payments and so on, that a real tourist industry must give to Australia. I think we have to review this position. We have to think of the wide-bodied jets. We have to ask ourselves: If we are to fill those empty surplus seats, how do we reasonably do it without damaging the excellent operations of our flag carrier and our domestic airlines? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-The discussion is concluded. 
-Is it the wish of the House to proceed to the third reading forthwith? 
-The question now is 'That the report be adopted and that the Bill be now read a third time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of reports of a proposed 10 per cent domestic air fare increase, which if approved by him would mean that he had approved cumulative fare increases of 40 per cent resulting from his Government's actions? Has he received such applications for 10 per cent fare increases from Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia? If so, will he undertake to ensure that such applications will be subjected to a public examination to ensure that they are justified? Will he also undertake to provide a public examination of the base domestic air fare structure which I understand has been recommended by Government advisers? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) What has been the reduction in numbers of National Employment and Training System trainees in (a) Australia and (b) each of the States, since the introduction of the new guidelines. 
2 ) How many persons are being trained under the NEAT system in (a) Australia and (b) each of the States as at 21 March 1979. 
When did the peak in the NEAT system trainees occur and at that time how many persons were being trained in (a) Australia and ( b) each of the States. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Is it a fact that the Government intends to bring 40,000 to 50,000 skilled tradesmen to Australia as migrant workers between 1979 and 1985? Can he explain why the Government spends thousands of dollars sending migration officials around the world to recruit skilled labour when in Victoria alone the ratio of apprenticeship seekers to unfilled apprenticeships is 57 to one? Is it a fact that Australia 's reliance upon immigration as a source of skilled tradesmen denies training opportunities to thousands of unemployed young people, causing unnecessarily high levels of" youth unemployment? 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether on 13 March 1977 he stated: 'We are committed to take politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year'. Does that statement still hold? 
-I join in the closing stages of this debate on the Supply Bills to make a few points. I must say that I agree entirely with the amendment that has been moved by my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  Nothing that honourable members opposite have said during the debate has caused me to change that point of view. It seems that Government members wish to wave the stick that big government is no good and has to be reduced. On the other hand, it is obvious that they have imposed the dead hand of small government on the Australian economy and, what is worse in human terms, on the Australian people. Their continued restrictive fiscal policy has produced nothing but harm to our community. In the last few days, and other speakers have commented on this, we have had the picture of one Government member suggesting that there should be no social security benefits for unemployed persons under 25 years of age. He failed to indicate how the 5,000 unemployed in his own electorate could be employed in the 123 jobs that are available in the area. 
That suggestion reflects the fact that at the moment Government members are bashing several groups. They are youth bashers, they are Public Service bashers, they are pensioner bashers. They talk about the youth programs designed to cater for unemployed youth. I am sorry that they take the emotional dole bludger attitude because there is a section of youth unemployment that is not due to government fiscal policy. It is a chronic problem that has developed over a number of years because of technological change, and the Government's very restrictive fiscal policy. Its use of slogans when discussing this area is hiding the very real problem that members on both sides of the House will have to face. On 22 March I asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  the following question on notice: 
1 ) What has been the reduction in numbers of National Employment and Training System trainees in (a) Australia and (b) each of the States, since the introduction of the new guidelines. 
How many persons are being trained under the NEAT system in (a) Australia and (b) each of the States as at 21 March 1979. 
When did the peak in the NEAT system trainees occur and at that time how many persons were being trained in (a) Australia and (b) each of the States. 
I do not intend to go through all the statistics, but I think we should look at the reply I received from the Minister on 22 May. He pointed out the changes to the Special Youth Employment Training Program, which forms part of the National Employment and Training scheme, came into effect on 22 January 1979, and that in January the number in training under NEAT, excluding the SYETP, was 7,5 15, and with 15,278 under the SYETP, the total was 22,793. For February the comparative figures were 8,199, 10,138 and 18,337, and for March they were 9,085, 8,223 and 1 7,308. The peak was in August 1978, when the figure for NEAT, excluding the SYETP, was 13,345, and with 39,319 for SYETP, the total was 52,664. One can see from that that, because of the guidelines and the more restrictive attitude taken by this Government, the number of young people able to use the programs has been reduced by two-thirds at a time when youth unemployment is one of the problems causing great concern in the community. There is a further factor to consider when dealing with youth programs. For example, I understand that in our tertiary institutions new enrolments this year are down by some 15 per cent on previous years. This means that that 15 per cent, who normally would have entered tertiary institutions, have entered the work force. Because they have attained a higher degree of training, they have probably taken jobs that would have gone to those with less training, who have been pushed further into the pool of young unemployed. That is one of the reasons why there has been an increase in youth unemployment. There is a strong need, particularly in areas such as mine, for the promotion of programs for training the young unemployed. 
In addition, the social cost of unemployment is being ignored. A number of members would have noted the statement made last week by the 
Governor of South Australia when addressing a forum on unemployment held in Mount Gambier. Many of us would agree with the criticism offered by that gentleman that, in order to avoid having to feel concerned about the more than 4,000 unemployed and their families, Australians have given credence to and perpetuated the dole bludger myth. That is to the great shame of the Government and the community. There is no doubt that many politicians in this House have been actively involved in promoting that point of view. Further, the Governor pointed out that in Australia there has been an increase in suicides, mental illness and crime as a result of unemployment. Objective studies have shown quite clearly that unemployment is a factor in that increase. It is also a factor in the increasing crime rate in the community, with the consequent social cost in terms of waste. I am surprised that neither the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  nor the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  got to their feet when the Victorian Mental Health Authority published the results of a survey it conducted in Ballarat and Dandenong which indicated the connection between unemployment and attempted suicides. There is a social cost involved in that, as well as a cost to law enforcement agencies, health services and so on. But no one worries about it. 
Those in stable employment are encouraged to develop a sense of guilt about the unemployed, but many adopt an apathetic 'Haul up the ladder, I'm all right Jack' attitude. They excuse themselves by saying that if the economy is to recover there has to be a large pool of unemployment. We on this side of the House cannot accept that sort of rationalisation, that sort of restrictive policy on the nation's economy. We believe that the restrictions that have been imposed have gone too far. There are many other areas of social cost at which one can look. The other day one of my colleagues asked a question about the Meals on Wheels subsidy and indicated that something like 30c of the $2 cost came from the Federal Government. A laudatory statement was made about what a wonderful scheme it is. I do not want to detract from the value of that scheme but it does hide the failure of the community and the failure of the Government to look at the problems of the aged, elderly and ill in our community. For decades there have been waiting lists of three or four years for such elderly and disabled people, whether they be for government institutions, private institutions, equity housing or whatever. There has been no improvement. We agree with the suggestion that such people benefit from being able to be kept in the home or the family environment. But there is no doubt that for their physical well-being and their mental well-being there is a high percentage who do need appropriate institutional treatment which is just not available. The cost is not only to those individuals but to their families as well. That has been restricted by this Government. We have seen this Government remove even the regular twice-yearly adjustment of pensions that might give these people some help. 
There are many other areas that I would like to touch on in this debate on the Supply Bills. One matter I mention is the dead hand of this Government with its restrictive fiscal policy on the social consciousness, on the development of this community and on the use of our resources. We should get back to having pride in developing this country, a country where people did not rationalise their feelings of guilt about the suffering of their fellow men and try solutions to assist them. But I suppose I could be said to be a masochist. I will finish my speech at this time, sit down and allow the question to be put. In that way we will all be able to undergo the horrors that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will subject us to at 8 o'clock. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Both measures are machinery measures and in principle represent the adjustments that have been made in recent years and that are necessary from time to time with changing values. These measures follow those introduced by the Honourable Kim Beazley when he was Minister for Education. It is for this reason that the Opposition does not oppose the Bills. However, it must be admitted that recent events make it impossible to debate these Bills and their implications fully. In introducing the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  said: 
The amendment to the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1977 will be the final adjustment as it makes provision for increases in the salary and wage content of 1978 recurrent programs to December 1978. The States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1978 will be amended again in the Budget sittings of the Parliament to take account of further cost increases in accordance with the Government's announced policy. 
In respect of the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill, he said: 
In accordance with the Government's decision to restore fixed triennial funding for recurrent expenditure the Bill also provides recurrent grants for colleges of advanced education in respect of the years 1980 and 1981 at the same real level as for 1979, and supplements the recurrent grants to universities, for these years, which were provided previously in the principal Act. 
He went on to say: 
It is expected that arrangements for recurrent grants for technical and further education in respect of 1 980 and 1 98 1 will be announced during the Budget sittings after the Government has considered the report of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. 
Only two days later the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said: 
Education is another large block of expenditure which has come under close attention . . . 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  will shortly issue detailed guidelines for the programs of the education commissions in 1980. These will show that programs have been more rigorously pruned than on any previous occasion. 
Honourable members will appreciate that the changes that occurred two days after the introduction of the Bills and the fact that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has not announced the proposed guidelines and the changes of direction that he will be trying to attain make it very difficult for us to discuss just where education is going under these Bills. It is obvious that there is to be a serious downgrading of the importance of education to this Government with very widespread effects in the community. As we know already, the guidelines imposed by this Government on the various education committees have already attracted adverse comments from those bodies themselves, particularly to the point of their being able to do their real job effectively. I think that it would be as well for us in this" period of adjustments being made and uncertainty being introduced into the future to look at the general education scene because, after all, these Bills affect the whole broad spectrum of education. 
The Australian Labor Party sees education as a great social tool in promoting equality of opportunity. The Government is always proclaiming the virtues of freedom of choice and enterprise. As a maxim it is hard to criticise that. But to be effective there must be equality of opportunity for every individual to cope with his environment, occupation, community, family relationships, work and leisure time. We are not talking about equality of education. Its very nature means the educational process is flexible and innovative. But without resources, without personnel, without hope- to which condition this Government appears to be reverting it- there is little opportunity for the many. So it is as well to restate some of the beliefs that we have in education. 
We see education, amongst other things, as a lifelong process, so that while schooling will be normally the province of the young, opportunities should be available for individuals to take their secondary or continuing education at any stage of their adult lives. Education should not be seen as the responsibility of the formal education system alone. Government strategies in education should be aimed at developing a coordinated network of educational facilities which are responsive to community and individual needs and which have a great deal of diversity and innovation and include equality of opportunity, accessibility and the maximum devolution of responsibility, and in that way enhance the quality of life of all people. 
It must be acknowledged that any move towards those aims requires participation by governments. That is what we are about at the moment. Governments have already accepted the need for the provision of a compulsory education system and a universal, free, secular system of education open to all citizens. But we have to go further. We have to provide financial assistance to enable the diversity of education provisions in keeping with the equality of educational opportunity I mentioned before. Guidance is already given in the establishment of the various commissions dealing with the stages of education. As I have mentioned before, part of the process must be to recognise the growing importance of leisure and the necessity to provide both facilities and training for recreational and cultural activities. 
When we are speaking about Government action we are speaking about the action of both State and Federal governments. The Australian Government has a particular responsibility. When in government the Australian Labor Party undertook to co-operate with the States to provide and operate educational services which were available to all without charge. We tried to provide benefits to students in the same way, in liaison with the States and even with other countries, on matters relating to education, on research relating to education and on the various educational services. What is more, we believe that the Australian Government, in its provision of benefits to students, should ensure that there is a positive discrimination in favour of disadvantaged groups. To this end I have quoted rather extensively from the Labor Party's platform and policies on education. 
The crisis in Australian politics today is one of credibility. In this Parliament we have seen evidence of that crisis of credibility in what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government offer. Some would say that credibility is non-existent. We should take an historical look at the involvement of the Australian Parliament in education. Honourable members are well aware that constitutionally education was left to the States. During the years of World War II the Federal Labor Government of that time introduced various measures to stimulate education. I think the most obvious of the steps that were taken in order to produce trained and skilled personnel was the subsidising of university students in respect of fees and maintenance allowances. It will be recalled that at that time the Australian Government also took over income tax powers, which greatly increased its revenue and its control over revenue and markedly altered the financial relationships between the Federal and State governments. 
From 1949 to 1972 Liberal governments started to intrude further into the education field. We saw university financing. In 1952 Prime Minister Menzies introduced income tax deductions for school expenses, which marked the first break from established practice. In 1963 the science laboratory grants for all schools were adopted and in 1969 library grants were introduced. In 1970 per capita grants were made to independent schools, beginning at $35 for a primary pupil and $50 for a secondary pupil. The levels of these grants were increased for 1972 and 1973. 1 think we should note that at that time the present Prime Minister, who was the Minister for Education, emphasised the per capita grants system. It was in 1972 that the McMahon Government proposed to pay 20 per cent of average State school recurrent costs provided the States paid a further 20 per cent, and this was to take effect in 1973. 
The majority of those measures did very little to provide equality of opportunity in education. By their very nature, they further advantaged the advantaged. They were cynical, pragmatic exercises in buying votes. The States themselves were failing to keep up with even minimal educational needs. In the 1960s and the early 1970s the Labor Party identified inequalities in education. It was then that it postulated the needs basis for further Federal participation in education. An injection of finance was required and it was seen that the best way of involving the Australian Government was to adopt the needs basis. As is known, the programs which were suggested received wide public approval and the promise by Labor to implement those proposals was a factor in the election of a Labor Government in 1972. 1 remind the House that two days after the election the Interim Schools Commission was appointed, with Professor Karmel as the  Chairman.  The terms of reference of that Commission were to recommend on the financial needs of all schools, priorities within those needs and measures to meet them. It will be recalled that, as a result of the findings of that Commission and later the Schools Commission, a number of advances were made in education. 
I have already mentioned that these Bills, by their nature, recall the cost indexation that was introduced for capital and recurrent grants in all their aspects. But, more than that, important principles on needs were spelled out. The Karmel Commission and the Schools Commission were able to spell out the resource equality target that should be aimed at for schools. They were able to spell out programs that gave preference to the disadvantaged. One such development was the establishment of the Curriculum Development Centre. It was established, with full State co-operation, to allow some diversity in opportunity, and it did not just stop at primary and secondary school education. The needs in post-school education were also recognised. At that stage the Technical and Further Education Commission was established. It has been changed by this Government. The areas of further education- that is, recurrent education, adult education and the sort of steps that could lead up to the open university- were taken up, explored and encouraged. The House will recall that full funding for universities and colleges of advanced education was introduced. This meant the abolition of tuition fees, which removed a major economic barrier in the community. 
There was an acceleration in teacher education programs. Student allowances were provided to enable isolated children to be compensated for their disadvantage and to have a freer approach to education. Secondary allowances were introduced to help able children whose families did not have adequate financial resources. Special schemes for Aboriginal adult students were introduced. There was emphasis on migrant education. Steps were taken in a wide range of areas. Recently I visited Adelaide and saw what is called the Ten Schools Program in an area with a wide range of migrant children. Instead of the children being taught in the traditional manner, at the very earliest stage in their learning they are being taught in a multilingual way, by the use of both the mother tongue of their parents and English. The AngloAustralians who attend those classes are able to learn a second language. This sort of approach came from the stimulus that was offered in the years between 1972 and 1975. 
I remind the House that the present Government promised to maintain the levels of education assistance that had been attained during the 1972-75 period and that it even promised to improve them. But, as with so many other promises and policies it has made, that promise will not now be fulfilled. We heard some gobbledegook the other day, when the Prime Minister said 'The policy of the Government is the policy of the policy of the day', or something like that. That just means: 'Elect us on one policy and we will darned soon change it, so that you will not know where you are'. That is what we have now- the topping up Bills introduced on the 22nd of this month, and on the 24th; the announcement of some vague change in the immediate future so that educationists, kids and parents do not know where they are. 
Let us look at what some of the actions of this Government mean for education. We need not refer just to Labor Party documents. Let us consider the submission made by the Australian Teachers Federation to the Commonwealth Government on future funding for schools. In this debate I am concentrating on the schools area because it is such a fundamental area. Mistakes and deficiencies in schools now will produce problems in nine or 10 years time, problems such as a shortage of skilled persons. It is not just a matter of skills for the work force it is also a matter of young people being educated in how to deal with life. There are a lot of problems today for which I am sure the young people have not been adequately prepared. 
As well as receiving regular reports from the Schools Commission, this Government has had reports from a number of expert commissions, including the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training, the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, and the Australian Council of Educational Research report on literacy and numeracy. A feature of these reports is that each made recommendations for qualitative improvements in our schools. However, those qualitative improvements had to depend on the availability of resources to meet identified needs. Unless those resources are made available, the schools are not able to gain the capacity to carry out what is needed. Schools today are subjected to enormous pressures, including changes in community structures, community needs and community expectations. There is great diversity in what is going on and greater than usual stresses apply. In his speech the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in relation to education: 
. total enrolments in schools beginning to decline it is possible now to moderate the flow of resources- and especially additional capital resources- into these areas. 
One of the problems is that the resources supply has been nowhere near satisfactory so far as the community is concerned. There must be a clear reason to increase education expenditure in real terms, and in its submission the Australian Teachers Federation stated: 
. so that the real resources available to Government schools in 1980 are not less than those specified in the Karmel Report of 1973 and re-stated in the configuration of resources in the Schools Commission Report of April 1 978. 
Those commissions have dealt thoroughly with the matter. In debates on similar Bills, I think last year, I mentioned some of the deficiencies that exist in resource levels. One deficiency concerns the question of class sizes, and this is an easily identifiable measurement which is used in the reports. In the Karmel report specification with regard to class sizes was 32 pupils maximum in primary and junior secondary and 25 pupils maximum in senior secondary. The Schools Commission's specification for 1979-81 states that there should be 25 pupils in infant classes, 30 pupils in primary and junior secondary, and 25 pupils in senior secondary. But what is the prevailing situation? I think these are much the same figures as those I cited last year. Some 35.1 per cent of primary classes exceed 30 pupils, and I remind the House that the Schools Commission specification for 1979-81 suggested that 30 pupils for primary was the desirable resource level. Returning to the prevailing situation, 27.8 per cent of junior secondary classes exceed 30 pupils and 1 9 per cent of senior secondary classes exceed 25 pupils. Unless there is some real growth, advances will not be made in bringing up resource levels to those recommended. 
Another matter of concern to the Opposition, and it seems to be happening by stealth in the education policy of the Government, relates to the transfer of funding which the Government is providing. It seems that the Government is moving away from the needs policy. One suspects that there will be a gradual rein traduction of the policy of per capita grants so beloved of the 
Prime Minister when he was Minister for Education. One of the objects of the reintroduction of per capita grants would be that the Government would spend relatively more of the education dollar on wealthier private schools, on the ostensibly fair grounds of equal grants per capita. One suspects that the Government is trying to manipulate this situation in a way that will be accepted and even eventually agreed to by the Schools Commission, not only by reason of changing the composition of the Schools Commission but also by progressively changing the guidelines to be followed by the Commission when it is instructed to give expression to this policy. The Schools Commission under its old composition complained of the restrictive guidelines with which it was faced. 
There is a wide body of opinion in the community pressing for the maintenance of the needs policy that was introduced by the Labor Government. The wealthier schools do not mind, but government schools and the ordinary Catholic parish schools are pressing for the maintenance of the needs policy. Approximately 15 years ago the question of State aid was a very divisive issue in the community. I believe that the Government by inducing inequalities in its division of the education dollar, is trying to re-introduce this divisive matter, which was removed by the adoption of the needs policy and by the provisions which were given to the Schools Commission to carry on. 
There is no doubt that one of the defects in the Australian Government's involvement in education has been the question of accountability with the States, because they have jealously guarded what they see as their constitutional right. This situation leads to some remarkable disadvantages in many of the schools. I give an example of a school that is probably typical of schools in many members' electorates. A complaint from the Arthurs Creek primary school states that education allowances set in 1973 have never been updated. The library allocation, together with the education allowance, was set in 1973, and in 1979 the school is still trying to work on the allowances set in 1973. 1 accept that this Government has handed the responsibility over to the State governments. The fact that there is a lack of accountability is not good enough. Some real incentive should be given. I would remind honourable members that a book which cost $4 in 1973 now costs between $8 and $12; and paper which cost 91c per ream in 1973 now costs $3.50. Some schools, because of their size and situation, have to take part in various regional schemes. The Arthurs Creek school is a member of the mobile area resource centre. In order for schools to take part in that resource centre, which is of benefit to them and in which they have to be involved, they must take a severe cut in their educational allowance. They have to use this allowance, which has never been updated, for that purpose. 
Are we going to accept the situation where the States carry on without accountability and without incentive? There is something else that I can say in this regard. The Yan Yean reservoir in Melbourne is the oldest Melbourne water supply. There are 30 children in the primary school which is located there. The local water supply was introduced in about 1850. The school's water supply consists of two small tanks. This is its source of water. This is the way resources have been allocated to schools. I raise that matter to indicate that even if the Government intends to slash expenditure it must lay down the principles oh which it does that. If it is to abandon the needs principle which is accepted by people throughout the field of education and if it is to go back to the old divisive system of per capita grants and of allocating funds to privileged schools, I warn the Government that it will suffer a real upsurge and defeat. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these three measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr ELLICOTT (Wentworth-Minister for the Capital Territory)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to speak on the same matter. I accept what the honourable member for Wills says. I just thought that he had a perspicacity which apparently he did not have at all. 
Question put- 
That the motion  (Mr Innes's)  be agreed to. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Did  Mr Bates,  the chief of the Narcotics Bureau, withhold from the Minister information concerning serious allegations against officers of the Narcotics Bureau? What decisions have been made about future communication between  Mr Bates  and the Minister as a result of past experience? Has the Minister now devised procedures which will ensure that he supervises the running of his Department and keeps himself informed about matters in relation to it? 
-You have my indulgence. 

Acting Speaking has received a letter from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Government's budgetary and monetary policies. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-As it is now past 12.45 p.m. the time allotted precedence of General Business has expired. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
 He said that he is opposed to the freezing of pensions. 
This honourable member voted on 12 October for the freezing of pensions. A division took place at that time. The man is a humbug.' 

 Sir, unfortunately I did not hear the expression the man is a humbug' because at that stage the  Deputy Speaker  had called the honourable member to order. The words were said through the calls for order, and unfortunately have been recorded in  Hansard.  Otherwise, I would have asked for withdrawal of that unparliamentary language. 
More important is the fact that the allegation is totally untrue, and it may well have been an accident by the honourable member for Newcastle. Pages 1774 and 1775 of the  Hansard  of 11-12 October 1978 show that I did not vote for the second reading of the Social Services Amendment Bill which reduced automatic in-' dexation of pensions from a six-monthly to an annual basis. In fact, I was joined by three of my colleagues. On page 1823 of  Hansard  of 12 October 1978, during the Committee stage clauses 5 and 6 relating to the indexation of pensions were put to a vote and I abstained from voting in that division, along with four of my colleagues. The allegation is untrue. It may well have been that the honourable member for Newcastle accidentally looked at the next column, which was the division on the gag, and I did vote in that division. I stress that the honourable member for Newcastle claimed that I voted for the freezing of pensions. That is totally untrue, and I ask that by some measure he be asked to withdraw the unparliamentary and unacceptable expression that I am a humbug. The facts show clearly that I am not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) Which State and private schools in the Electoral Division of Scullin have received Commonwealth grants during each of the years 1970-71 to 1978-79. 
For each school what was (a) the sum received, (b) the purpose for which the grant was made and (c) the fund from which the grant was paid. 
-The discussion is concluded. 
-I have received a complaint that while the quorum bells were ringing some red lights were flashing instead of green lights. Until that fault can be investigated and corrected, I hope that members will take care when the bells are ringing to ascertain whether they are ringing for this House. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  last night made his frank and honest confession of his donkeywalloping and how it was going to haunt him. It occurred to me, listening to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  that it was only appropriate that the chief donkey in the House should make a complaint on their behalf. The honourable member commented that in this respect he would have to look at the Queensland law to see whether donkey walloping was a crime. I can assure the honourable member that the braying that was being complained about in Victoria would certainly offend against environmental protection legislation as far as noise levels are concerned. 
Having said that, I must correct a couple of points that the honourable member for Denison mentioned. He misrepresented the Leader of the Opposition when he said that the Leader of the Opposition referred to retrospective taxation. What the Leader of the Opposition referred to was retrospective legislation against tax avoidance schemes. Tax avoidance schemes are robbing this country of something like $ 1,000m a year. That $ 1,000m a year has to be made up by the honest taxpayers of this country. I agree with the honourable member for Denison about his optimism on Australia. I think one of the most optimistic notes that was sounded was in the speech last night of my colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  He spoke about Australia's natural resources and its human resources and what could develop from them. Whilst agreeing with the honourable member for Denison, I also agree with the honourable member for Wills that the only way in which to develop resources is to get rid of the mob that is so ruinously handling those resources. 
I find myself in a rather difficult position. I have always paid a great deal of attention to the problems of the people in my electorate. I will be absent from this House while I attend the United Nations in New York, so I will miss the Estimates debates. That will stop me from dealing with some of the more specific matters that I would have liked to have dealt with then. I suppose that the area I represent has a reasonable cross-section of middle class Australians. When we look at the housing there, we find a mixture of old, established housing and new estates of varying degrees of excellence. I wonder whether Government members realise what is happening in those newer housing estates. I wonder whether they realise that their failure to bring down interest rates by that promised 2 per cent, I believe it was, leads to many young couples who are purchasing new houses having to do what others did in the late 1920s and 1930s- just hand in the keys and let their houses go. That situation is becoming more obvious in areas such as mine. 
-I thank the honourable member for Corio for his statistics in that respect. I am finding this in my own area. Almost 50 per cent of the people in my electorate are of migrant origin. I am distressed that one of the niggardly measures that is embodied in this Budget is the charging of fees for various matters affecting migrants, such as visas. Even now, one of the greatest problems that we have is that migrants who were welcomed into the Australian work force, who have made a substantial contribution to Australia by working in our industries and developing production and who wish elderly relatives to join them, are going to be faced with relatively massive charges to bring them to Australia. 
-The honourable member for Holt says 'not massive'. In certain circumstances charges of $150 to $200 could be involved and that is a pretty fair whack for people who are earning the normal wage, which is one well below average weekly earnings. I turn now to wage levels. My electorate is a working to middle class area. When we talk about average weekly earnings it sounds great, as though more than half the workers in the community earn that much. But that is unreal. Over 70 per cent of Australians earn less than average weekly earnings, and I represent such people in my electorate. These are the people who are hardest hit by the tax scales that are imposed by this Government and by its failure to index. There is a high proportion of young families involved. The family allowance, which was much mooted as a great aid to them, has had its value completely eroded. No stimulus whatsoever is provided by the Budget. 
My electorate contains a fair industrial area. It is moribund and the Budget provides no stimulus to it whatsoever. My electorate also contains a large rural area which in the last year or so has shown some prosperity, not because of the actions of the Government but because of climatic conditions and prices on overseas markets. However, the rural people are disadvantaged by the fuel policy of this Government and by many other means. They are being ripped off. Worst of all the problems are those faced by the young unemployed. I have had some reservations about the Government's unemployment committees that it asked us to set up in our areas. I have cooperated and two such committees have been set up in my area. The feedback from them reveals a deplorable situation. 
Let us get this Budget in perspective for it cannot be looked at just on its own. We have to return to what was said in the 1 977 election campaign. In election campaigns we are used to local misrepresentation on all sorts of issues and that occurred again in 1977. But the biggest misrepresentation in that campaign was the offer of tax cuts from 1 February 1978. There were advertisements showing a handful of dollars. However, what was not revealed was that not long after that, in the 1978 Budget, a 1.5 per cent tax levy was to be put on for the 1978-79 financial year. That levy applied for an 8-month period at a level of about 2.57 per cent. A promise was given that it would apply only for that year but then there was a new attitude in Budget strategy. 
So that it would not look so bad there was a miniBudget in May of this year. One of the announcements made then was that the levy was to continue-not at the 1.5 per cent rate but at the 2.57 per cent rate. Now in this Budget we are told that the levy is to be removed from 1 December. But even if it is removed, even if the promise that the levy would cease from 30 June is finally kept although some 5 months later, the levy on income for the 1979-80 financial year will still be over one per cent. There still will be an impost. 
In addition, the promise regarding tax indexation has also been dishonoured. As my colleagues have mentioned time and time again the scales show that lower income earners are the worst hit by the failure to index taxation. It is obvious from the Budget that the Government plans to try to continue its policy of cutting the value of real wages and transferring a larger share- I think it was put this way in one of the newspapers- of the national cake to the corporate sector. This is considered responsible economic management but it is management that disregards the ordinary people. Their tough tax policies were introduced at a time of industrial trouble, when those involved in industrial labour were concerned about the way in which the economy was going. The tough tax policies have been industrially provocative, perhaps deliberately so as a defence mechanism. They certainly have stopped any hope of any sort of discussion or deal with the unions about wage restraint. The sort of dishonoured promises that we have had seem to be a way of life in the Government parties. The other day I was interested to see in an article in the  Sun  newspaper of Friday, 24 August that campaign posters and advertisements, allegedly rejected by the Liberal Party for this year's Victorian State elections, won a major American creativity award. I was fascinated because the article referred to a State electorate inside my Federal electorate. In relation to one of the advertisements the article states: 
One had a picture of a small girl about to be hit by a car with a heading: 
One way to overcome the problem of Bundoora's overcrowded classes. 
That was to be Liberal propaganda in a State election campaign. It dealt with Bundoora's overcrowded classes, the result of years of neglect by the Federal Government and its brothers in the Victorian Government. This is the standard of the promises of the Government. The article continues: 
Another has a copy of a newspaper advertisement for an apprenticeship opportunity with the heading: 
Forty per cent of the kids leaving school in Bundoora can 'tread this.' 
That is the sort of misrepresentation which occurred in an area for which the Liberal Party has been responsible since 1955. Out of the 24 years since then it has been financially responsible for 2 1 years. In the mini-Budget of May this year the Government said that it would cut capital works and major equipment grants for education, but this will only increase the problem of overcrowded classrooms. It seems that there is no limit to the techniques that the conservative parties will adopt to ensure their return to office. How can one accept their credibility? The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  talked about the unemployment figures and the methods used to express unemployment. We all know that in areas such as mine usually there are many two-income families. They find that they need two incomes to be able to raise their families and to exist in a proper way. Here lie many hidden unemployed, because under those circumstances many wives cannot register as unemployed. This is where the system has gone down the drain. 
The Government has been cutting training schemes for the young unemployed all the time. I refer to a table prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library which refers to the National Employment and Training scheme. It sets out the number of persons in training at the end of each month from July 1978 to July 1979. It gives a total number of 50,487 people in training at the end of July 1978. At the end of July 1979 there was a total of 5,320 people in training. That is one-tenth of the number of people who had been in training in July 1978. I ask leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard.  When the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  was at the table, I got his permission. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908296_54_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House for that courtesy. The other thing that annoys me is the continual use of the phrase 'dole bludger' when referring to the young unemployed. 

 Mr Ballieu;Who used it? 
The Liberal Party. 

 Mr Baillieu; Name one honourable member who has used it? 
-I have heard the honourable member for La Trobe use it. I want to refer to an article in the  Age  of today's date which refers to a conference at the La Trobe University. I will not go into the details but the report says that there is an unfortunate effect on young unemployed when this term is used. I refer to the paper delivered by  Dr L.  V. Defris and  Dr J.  V. Remenyi. For a start, they say that the dole bludger theory is not proven. Their statistical tests suggest that the Government's emphasis on the level of unemployment benefits was misplaced if the aim was to get unemployment down. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)There is no point of order. 

 - Dr Defris and  Dr Remenyi  say that raising benefit levels to reduce poverty among the unemployed would be a good policy, since it would be unlikely to cause many people to choose not to work. This is the very reverse of the theory that has been thumped at us on so many occasions. It is unfortunate that in this debate my time is restricted. I would like to have dealt with other aspects that are affected by the Budget. As I mentioned in my preliminary remarks, I have had to deal with rather more specific areas than I had intended, because I will not be here for the debate on the Estimates. I find it incredible that honourable members on the Government side of the House can praise the restoration of the twice-yearly adjustment in pensions. One would think that it was something that the Government had organised. It was only 12 months ago that it abolished the twice-yearly adjustment in pensions. What a big deal it is! Then one must consider the fringe benefits. I do not know about them. I am prepared to wait and see because I wonder whether the Government will get full co-operation from bodies like the Australian Medical Association from which it usually has had co-operation in any increase in medical fringe benefits. I would say that there is some doubt about co-operation being maintained unless there has been real discussion with the Association and a real setting of levels. It seems that the level is a very fuzzy one and there needs to be an equitable way of determining levels. 
-Is the honourable member seeking leave? 
Labor also would introduce a Medibank style health scheme. 
I must admit that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  did say: 'We might not be able to do all of these things in one year because we had our fingers burnt last time'. He recognised that there had to be some economic responsibility about these matters. But clearly could that last mentioned proposal be done without committing taxpayers to additional expenditure of public money? There is no way that that could be done. Labor would introduce a national superannuation scheme. These undertakings are, of course, the big ticket items. But are they consistent with a low tax party? This is what these people who sit opposite are trying to describe themselves as. There is no way that the Opposition can hold itself out to be responsible in economic terms while in every other forum it is producing these sorts of promises; and I am only half way through the list. 
The Opposition has said that in government it would appoint an environmental advocate to report annually to Parliament. Labor would establish a council for Northern Australia. Labor would re-establish the Australian Housing Corporation; it would phase out the eligibility requirements for public housing; and it would introduce a Commonwealth funded rental rebate system. I could go on and on. Are these items that I am cataloguing consistent with the policies of a low tax party? Are these items consistent with the philosophies of those honourable members who criticise the Government not for giving tax cuts but for insufficient tax cuts? Quite frankly, the situation is that one cannot have a lower rate of taxation without reduced government expenditure. If the Government expands government expenditure, it has to increase taxes. 
Labor has undertaken to introduce a national home improvement program. It would build a international airport in Townsville. It would eliminate the seven-day wait for registered persons to be eligible to receive unemployment benefits and the six-week delay for school leavers to qualify for them. Labor would create an overseas trading corporation and a department of economic development. I have extracted these proposals from the speeches and statements that Labor spokesmen have made over the last 12 months. Perhaps they are having difficulty in cataloguing these matters themselves because they might well have been able to introduce some degree of uniformity of approach if they had been thinking about these matters themselves and were aware of what they had been promising. But even in its more recent statements, the Australian Labor Party has promised to inject $800m immediately into the economy in the form of job creation schemes. It has indicated that it would enforce a 51 per cent Australian equity in all mineral and energy projects. Labor has indicated that in government it would make further grants to the States for public transport systems. All the time it is wanting to involve government in more and more activities using taxpayer's funds. I cannot catalogue all of these promises. I suspect that the Leader of the Opposition could not catalogue all of Labor's promises because this year in his speech to the Parliament in reply to the Budget he failed to indicate that he had any appreciation of the economic consequences of Labor's promises. I refer honourable members opposite to his speech last year, which appears on page 563 of  Hansard,  in which he indicated that the Labor Party would accept a total deficit of $3,650m. He endeavoured to catalogue his promises, to put a figure on them and to let us know what his anticipated deficit might be. 

 Mr Hayden did not deliver an economic policy last night, he outlined an election strategy. 
If that is Labor's election strategy, that of a high tax party, I wish that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would think more seriously than I believe he is thinking about the prospect of an early election because I would like to fight an election any time on Labor's policies and proposals for higher taxation and ours for reduced taxation. Although the tax cuts may be insufficient we have to recognise the reality of the situation. The  Australian Financial Review  in its leader yesterday had the following additional comment to make. I will finish on this point because it sums up the Leader of the Opposition's address so fulsomely. It said: 

 Mr Hayden's approach is disingenuous and calculatingly so. He is playing to the basest emotions of the community at a time when a more responsible leader would be acknowledging the great difficulties facing the economy. 
Quite frankly, the  Australian Financial Review  has seen through the Leader of the Opposition. I believe that the electorate, whenever it is called upon to judge this Budget or any other of our proposals, will show the confidence that it has in us. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
