One would have thought that we had just heard from the greatest electoral reformer ever to come into any Parliament in Australia and it is rather interesting to note the electoral reforms which he carried out in 1970 as Premier of South Australia. When a Liberal Country League seat of Frome had but 8,296 electors 2 seats held by the Australian Labor PartyAdelaide and Coles- each had in excess of 16,000 electors. This occurred under the great electoral reformer. In the election held on 10 March 1973, on this great electoral reformer's boundaries the LCL could still win the seat of Frome with 8,296 electors but the seat of Mawson, which had been held since its inception by the Australian Labor Party, then had 24,639 electors, a ratio of 3 to 1.  Mr Acting Chairman-  I am delighted to see you in the chair- we are talking about a 20 per cent variation and  Senator Hall,  the great electoral reformer, was talking about a 3 to 1 variation. No wonder one should beware of the devil when he quotes scripture. One would have thought that the honourable senator was a supporter of what  Mr Whitlam  said in his submission to the distribution commissioners in 1968: 
No distribution should permit a situation where a party or a coalition of parties which secures a majority of votes does not secure a majority of members in the House of Representatives. To permit otherwise would be to perpetrate a travesty of representative government. 
That is what we saw in South Australia in both 1970 and 1973-variations of 2 to 1 and 3 to 1. 1 am also more than interested when a person, knowing that the double dissolution occurred in respect to 6 Bills, can come into this place and say that the Government has a mandate for three but not for the other three. How does one arrive at that dichotomy? How does one arrive at that equal division? There is no explanation of that, but enough time has been wasted on the honourable senator. Let us get back to the Bill. 
Why do  Mr Daly  and his supporters bring in this Bill? For electoral justice? Not at all. It has been brought in merely to secure the Labor Party in office for a long time. I knew something about the Labor Party long before these Johnnycomelateleys came into it. I was told by my father as a very young child: 'The most important man in any organisation is not the  president,  is not the secretary. You become the returning officer.' He is the most important man in the Labor Party. That is the principle that the Australian Labor Party lives by. The other thing he told me all his life as we went along on polling days was this: 'Remember the great Labor principle- vote early and vote often'. That is what this Bill is all about too. I know a little about what the Labor Party means by electoral reform. What it means is to secure itself in office for a long long time. 
Today the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam gave us one of his lectures about how democracy is so frail in Australia at the moment. I did not hear him say anything about what Mr Mundey said yesterday when he was attacking democracy. How does Mr Whitlam talk about democracy being frail in Australia? He says democracy is frail in Australia because one chamber of this Parliament is prepared to exercise its rights which it was guaranteed under the Constitution. He and his Party are the people who are putting democracy under attack in this country, not the Senate. He stood here and lectured us about the frailty of democracy when he and his Party and his supporters outside are doing more to pull it down than anybody else in the community. 
The simple fact of life is that the Labor Party is not prepared to settle for 52 per cent of the seats for 49 per cent of the vote; it wants a Western Australian situation- the first redistribution carried out by a Labor Party Government since 1948. Of course, we all remember what happened in Labor's fancy fiddle of 1948. It should have won the 1954 election on it, but it fiddled the seats so much that it lost the election. 
Remember that last fiddle? It almost succeeded last time in Western Australia- the result of a Labor Party redistribution. The Labor Party got 46 per cent of the vote and it almost got 60 per cent of the seats. That is not a bad result. As I said, Labor Party policy is to vote early and vote often. Yet in this place it tries to talk about electoral reform. It is humbug. 
I understand that electoral reform is to make something better by removal, but the Labor Party has no desire to make it better except to make it better for itself. Its motive is pure selfishness. That is why it wants to do it. This whole Bill is totally unnecessary. Members of the Labor Party are not prepared to contain themselves until the 1978 redistribution is due. They are not prepared to contain themselves until the next census is taken. They are greedy to hang on to office. They love the big black shiny motor cars. They love the fruits of office and they love appointing the boys to the jobs. There are still a lot more supporters to be rewarded, so they have to hang on to office no matter what they do. They are afraid of the consequences of their present policies. They have internal fracas within their own Party and they do not even trust the quality of their one man Government much longer. They want to rig the electoral boundaries so that they can settle down after 1978 really to work over the whole of our electoral system. 
I know the Labor Party tried to work over the electoral system in the last referenda, but it could not. The Australian people were a wake up to it so they threw its proposals out. Now it wants to assault the electoral system through the back door. This Government is one of fiddle, fiddle, fiddle. That is what it wants to do. We are going to have the 'Fiddler of the Electoral Boundaries' starring the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who cannot even send carpet tacks to China. That is how good he is. He cannot even organise sending a kitchen sink to Red China. How could he be trusted to fix the electoral boundaries. The Department of Services and Property cannot even furnish a house, that is how good that Department is. 
We know that no system can provide for exact representation. I was delighted that my friend and colleague  Mr Anthony  noted and made reference to the fact that he represents 6,000 more electors than does  Mr Daly.  But we never hear about that from the Government. We never heard from  Mr Daly  when he came back from Canada- that wonderful country whose electoral system he admires enormously- that it has a 25 per cent variation from quota in electorates. 
When the Prime Minister stood up here and lectured us, as he so often does, about democracy and about what that great Chief Justice Earl Warren said in the Supreme Court of the United States of America, he certainly did not advert to the Supreme Court case of February 1973 involving the State of Virginia. In that case the American Supreme Court ruled that it was not necessary in drawing up boundaries for electorates to be equal. The court stated that account could be taken of other factors and approved a variation of 15 per cent in the size of electorates. We did not hear about that case. All we have heard about is selective quotation and selective indignation. There is no need or justification for this legislation. 
As I said before, at the last general election the Australian Labor Party polled 49.3 per cent of the primary vote and obtained 51.96 per cent of the parliamentary seats. Is that unfair? Is that unreasonable? The simple fact of life is that what the Australian Labor Party wants is 52 per cent of the parliamentary seats for about 45 per cent of the votes. Members opposite will not even get that next time because the result in the Western Australian election was not good enough for them. 
Whatever else the presentation of this Bill at this Joint Sitting has done, it has shown that this Government cannot be trusted. In recent weeks this Government has shown that it cannot be trusted. What has happened to the Prime Minister's boast during the election campaign that only Whitlam had reduced inflation by onethird? What has happened to the boast that only Whitlam could do so much in 16 months? We have heard all the broken promises in relation to full employment, falling inflation and booming business. But have honourable members and honourable senators heard the other promise? It is that only Whitlam will reduce home interest rates by 3 per cent. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN (Senator the Hon. Justin  O'Byrne)- Order! The honourable senator will connect his remarks to the Bill. 
With respect,  Mr Acting Chairman,  I say that I am speaking to the Bill. I am saying that the Government cannot be trusted in relation to this Commonwealth Electoral Bill as it cannot be trusted on any other matter. I ask honourable members and honourable senators to remember what else the Labor Party said before the general election. It was stated that only Whitlam had a program of child care. What happened to that? Women and kids last. 
The ACTING CHAIRMAN -Order! The Joint Sitting will come to order. 
The ACTING CHAIRMAN- I ask the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate to connect his remarks to the Bill. 
-Mr Acting  Chairman,  I am delighted that you take so much notice of the other things that I say. I come back to what I said: If we cannot trust the Government in relation to one thing, we cannot trust it on anything. If we cannot trust it in relation to its so-called promises, are we going to trust any member of it in relation to electoral matters?  Mr Acting Chairman,  I would not trust the Government with anything. As far as I am concerned, this was a bad Bill to start with. It was a bad Bill the second time around, it was a bad Bill the third time around and it has not improved in the cooking. As far as I am concerned, it is still a bad Bill and I intend to vote against it. 
