Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the increasing pollution of Sydney beaches by untreated and undertreated sewage? Is he aware that the authority responsible for sewerage has indicated that the submarine outflow system required to free Sydney beaches of sewage pollution will not be in operation befo're 1990 due to the impasse in Commonwealth and State financial relations? Will the Prime Minister act urgently in this matter and make a grant available to New South Wales so that Sydney's beaches may be free of pollution. 
This week I have been deeply concerned by an action that has occurred in this House on more than one occasion. During this week accusations and charges have been made, firstly, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and in reply to a follow up question asked by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and, secondly, by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  in reply to a question asked today by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for External Affairs made serious allegations under privilege against an individual. 1 do not propose to argue the facts, for or against, in regard to the individual. But these serious charges were made under privilege. The law of this land is such that every man is presumed to be innocent until he is proven guilty. So that this matter might be treated seriously this evening I saw the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  early this afternoon. I told him that I intended to raise this matter as one of principle. It is not a matter of mud slinging. It is not a matter of name calling. As far as I am concerned the allegation involved is a very serious one. I believe the charges that have been made against this man are so serious that if he did, in fact, commit these crimes he has committed probably the most serious crimes that any Australian could commit against his nation. The allegation is that in a time of war he permitted himself to be used by the enemy against Australia. I know there are technicalities - that official war was not declared in Korea. It seems that the allegations stem from incidents in Korea. 
If these allegations are true action should be taken against this man because what he has done amounts to the crime of treason. This gentleman who has arrived in this country has stated clearly that he wishes to have an inquiry. He is prepared to face charges in order to clear his name. I think an inquiry could do this. He says he is a loyal Australian. So as to get at the facts the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  following upon the reply of the Prime Minister, asked the Attorney-General: 
Is it thought that  Mr Burchett  has broken any law of the Commonwealth? Alternatively, now that he is in Australia, is any investigation being undertaken to ascertain whether he has broken any law of the Commonwealth? 
The Attorney-General replied: 
I do not propose to give any opinion as to whether  Mr Burchett  has broken any law of the Commonwealth. What I will say, however, is that I, as the principal law officer of the Crown do not propose, as at present advised, to bring any charges against him in respect of- 
There was an interjection and further discussion. The Attorney-General went on: 
I do not propose to bring any charges. It is proper that I should say that in answer to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. 
This is the statement made by the AttorneyGeneral who is responsible for the laws of this land. He says he will not bring any charges. Following that statement a further question was asked today by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  In reply, the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  went further than the Prime Minister. He made more serious allegations. I do not need to read out what these allegations are. 
I ask the Attorney-General, with his understanding of law, whether one can state as evidence in a court of law: 'It is a wellknown fact, etc.'? Can the phrase 'it is a well-known fact' be given as evidence in a court of law? Can we in this Parliament say: 'It is a well-known fact, etc.', and then convict this man in this Parliament which creates the laws under which men are tried. It is this Parliament which determines the law of the land. I do not even want to raise my voice. I am deeply concerned that people in this Parliament can continue day after day to make these serious allegations when the man says: 'Look, I am prepared to face an inquiry. I am prepared to be charged. You lay the charges and I will face them.' This is the Government of the country. This is the Parliament of the country. I believe that we have to fight for the freedom of everybody in this land irrespective of his politics. It does not matter what he may be. 
I have heard it said by a wonderful friend of mine that if a Communist is not free in this country then we are not free. I could use the words of Martin Luther King when he said: 'Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere'. We in this Parliament have to live up to this ideal. I ask the Attorney-General, who is responsible for the laws of the land, not to use this Parliament to say: 'It is a well known fact' and to go on to make further allegations. Is it evidence merely to say: 'It is well-known fact'? Is that sufficient to convict a man? I could get up and say that something is a well known fact about certain people on the other side but the Attorney-General knows and I know that that is not the right thing to do. 1 was incensed about certain well known facts concerning the Prime Minister being brought forward in this place. I walked out of the place because I did not agree with the accusation. While I am in this Parliament I will stand up for every individual, whether he is big or small and whether his politics are to the left or to the right. I hope that the Government faces up to its responsibility and stops these wild charges and allegations unless they can be proved. The man has said: 'Look, I am prepared to go before an inquiry. I am prepared to be charged'. All that I say is: 'Put up or shut up'. 
Since questions of law have been raised again tonight. I would like the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  to explain to me and to the House why one code of law can be levelled against one person or one section of the community and no code of law levelled against another person or another section of the community. At the present time a young man is serving a 2-year gaol sentence in the Sale prison in Victoria because he is a conscientious objector against war, particularly the war in Vietnam. This young man failed to meet his commitments under the National Service Act. 
We know that 8,000 people throughout the Commonwealth have signed a statement known as the 'Statement of Defiance' - 1 will1 quote it later - and in doing so have breached section 7a of the Crimes Act. The Commonwealth courts in Sydney and in other places have in fact inflicted fines on certain persons. I might say that one person is the distinguished uncle of the Attorney-General. Other distinguished people have been fined. Eight thousand people have broken this law and more than one hundred people have been prosecuted already. Very few of them, even though they have been fined, have paid their fines. Yet the Commonwealth has not taken action to put those people in gaol. Refusal to pay the fine could mean 25 days in gaol 
In fact the Commonwealth has now reached a position where it has refused to issue summonses because it is fearful that the 8,000 may grow into 80,000 and the 80,000 may grow into 800,000. These people want to stand by these young men - just a handful of young men - whom the Commonwealth is putting in gaol for their conscientious beliefs either as complete conscientious objectors against war or as conscientious objectors against a particular war. We know the treatment that the Government handed out to young men such as William White, Simon Townsend and John Zarb. They all proved themselves. They are great young men of our era. We should hold them up as young men to be given great respect because they are fighting for conscience and human dignity. Yet the Commonwealth has used its powers to put them in gaol. 
However, 8,000 people have signed a statement of defiance and some of them have been convicted under section 7a of the Crimes Act. A former Attorney-General gave an opinion in this House. In fact, since he gave that opinion the senior magistrate in Sydney,  Mr Rodgers,  has fined many people. The statement of defiance reads: 
Those young men whose principles will not permit them to register under the present National Service Act and who refuse to be coerced into any war which they believe to be immoral and unjust, have my wholehearted support, encouragement and aid. 
If 1 were required to register under present conditions, I would refuse. Therefore, while young men may serve two years gaol because they have the courage to defy conscription and oppose the Vietnam war, I am compelled to stand with them. 
That is not an easy statement to sign. I signed this statement of defiance. I thought deeply about the question. I know that it is not easy to make a statement such as that. I know how difficult it is for a young man 20 years of age to stand up against the establishment and law and authority, and to have the moral courage to say as a conscientious objector: 'I will not go to war' or to say: 'I will not go to this war in Vietnam because it is an immoral war, it is a war that is a crime against the people of Vietnam and it is a war in which the most advanced civilised nation of the world has dropped more bombs on this little peasant country of Vietnam than were dropped on all the Axis powers during the Second World War'. These young men, who have read about and given thought to the Nuremberg trials, have said: '1 will not be a party to such an action'. I have tried to put myself in the position of these young men. I was a young soldier of 20 years of age. 
The Minister for Repatriation says: 'Here we go again'. The trouble with him is that his mind is sick. He should do something about having it attended to. The point is that a man of 20 years of age has made a decision on a question of conscience. It is not an easy decision to make, lt is not easy to find the courage to stand up against the establishment. I think we should give such a man encouragement. 1 ask the Attorney-General why he does not prosecute the 8,000 men who have signed the act of defiance? Men have been convicted under section 7a of the Commonwealth Crimes Act. Although these men have been fined most of them have refused to pay the fine, with a few exceptions. Why does not the Attorney-General see that they get 25 days gaol in the same way that the Government gave Brian Ross 2 years in Sale gaol? Why does the Government pick on a young man and put him in gaol for 2 years when it will not deal with these other gentlemen within our community? Why is there this difference? Why does the Government treat one person in the community differently to others? I thought that under the law all men were equal; that no preferences were shown. 
This is the point that concerns me about the Government: It is playing ducks and drakes with the law. I thought the law should be just, and just to everybody. The Government is still putting young men in gaol for 2 years. Why will not the Government prosecute the 8,000 men I referred to? It does not do so because if it did the number would grow to 80.000, then to 800,000, and the Government knows that it would have trouble on its hands. 
Never before in our history have the people of Australia, particularly the young, been exploited by the usurers as they are today. Twenty-five and fifty years ago the only people who so lacked morality as to exploit to this degree were those in shabby and dusty shops with 3 balls over the door. Now they are the greatest financial corporations in Australia backed by the great free enterprise banks, all of whose directors and managers appear prominently in 'Who's Who' and the New Year honours list. These exploiters and usurers are a major factor in spiralling land costs in Australia's urban areas. Concern over land costs has been expressed in many quarters. Headlines in last Sunday's Sun-Herald' read: 'Government Moves for Cheaper Land. Plan to Beat Rising Costs of Home Sites.' An examination of the article discloses that the New South Wales Government has no real solution to the problem. The Housing Industry Association has recently published a report entitled Finance for Housing in Australia'. I want to deal with certain aspects of that report, particularly chapter 4 which deals with land costs and housing finance. The report cites the Institute of Real Estate of New South Wales, which has stated: 
The high interest paid on land development funds is stressed as another cost factor and the provision of loans at bank interest is advocated by the Institute. 1 think that is an understatement. During the last weekend I tried to put myself in the position of a young person seeking to purchase a block of land in the Sydney metropolitan area. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a document prepared by the Par liamentary Library Legislative Research Service showing the price of land in Sydney suburbs. 

<graphic href="966131197003195_18_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="966131197003195_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

I contacted an estate agent about land at Engadine. The prices quoted ranged from $5,700 a block to $6,250 a block. It is interesting to note that an auction of Crown land held last Saturday at Engadine, which is in the electorate of my friend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  a home site brought $7,300. The sites sold at the auction realised an average of $1,476 above the reserve price. I asked the estate agent how much it would cost in weekly payments if I paid a deposit of $600 on a block of land advertised at $5,700. I was informed that I would have to repay $20.70 a week for 7 years. The interest rate was 12% reducible. I inquired whether I could obtain better terms and was told by the agent that most land transactions were financed by one of three major corporations. The first is the Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd in which the Bank of New South Wales held 42.93% of shares as at September 1969. The second finance organisation was Australian Securities Limited, the major shareholders in which were the. Royal Bank of Scotland and the British Wagon Company, which held 30% of shares, and the South Pacific Insurance Co., which is in the WR Carpenter group, which held 7.9% of shares. The third organisation is the Finance Corporation of Australia which since 30th June 1969 has been a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bank of Adelaide Ltd. It deals solely in finance for housing and land purchase. 
The estate agent was quite frank. He said that people have become educated to paying 12% interest on money borrowed for the purchase of land. In repayment of a loan of $5,100 a young person would have to pay $1,076.40 a year for 7 years. This is a total of $7,534.80. In addition his local government and water and sewerage rates over a 7 year period would amount to about $700. We must not forget that he has already paid $600 in deposit and will be required to meet legal costs and land title transfer fees. Before he considers building a home on the block of land that he has acquired at Engadine a young person will have paid out $9,000. Prices of land at Engadine are well below the average prices advertised in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. I think I have understated the problem confronting our young people. In none of my inquiries was I offered finance at less than 12% reducible. I fully anticipate that as a result of the recent increase of 0.5% in the Reserve Bank interest rate the cost of land will continue to spiral. 
The annual report of the War Service Homes Division gives details of the cost of land in New South Wales on which the Division constructs homes. The average cost in 1949-50 was $234. This rose to $2,487 a block in 1968-69 - an increase during the period of 962%. However, an examination of advertisements for land in Sydney newspapers and the special articles written in the 'Sydney Morning Herald of 5th to 7th November 1969 by  Mr Joe  Glascott reveal that the average cost of land in Sydney is more than2½ times higher than the price stated by the War Service Homes Division.  Mr Glascott's  article states: 
At $6,800 the average price of a home site in the Sydney metropolitan area . . . Melbourne $4,520; Brisbane $3,800; Adelaide $2,670; and Hobart $2,500. Only Perth, bursting with a population explosing resulting from the West's mineral boom, approaches the Sydney figure with an average price of $6,000. 

 Mr Glascott's articles also included prices of land in Sydney suburbs showing how land prices have soared during the last  10  years. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a document prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service showing the increase in the price of land for home sites in suburbs of Sydney bet ween 1959 and 1969. 

<graphic href="966131197003195_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

An important aspect is disclosed in the recent report of the Housing Industry Association, headed 'Finance for Housing in Australia'. Chapter 4 deals with land costs. A similar pattern of cost as that revealed by  Mr Glasscott's  'Sydney Morning 
Herald' article for all major capital cities is revealed but the Housing Industry report states: 
By contrast a home buyer may obtain a 99 year lease on an allotment in new suburbs of Canberra for as little as $900. 
It could be argued that the report states that the cost is as little as $900 per block whereas the article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' refers to average prices. An examination of prices realised at recent auctions in Canberra discloses that the average price paid is less than $2,000 a block, compared with the average price of $6,000 paid for Crown land auctioned at Engadine last Saturday. Engadine is an area that votes Labor. It is in the electorate of Hughes. Advertisements in Sydney newspapers show that Crown land to be auctioned in a few weeks time at Belrose carries reserve prices of $8,000 to $8,800. This land will bring more than $2,000 in excess of the reserve. I could refer to the prices being obtained for Crown land at St Ives - they are 50% higher than those I have already given for Belrose. 
We on this side deplore the auction system. It is the law of the jungle where the speculator thrives. We might ask why the conditions which prevail in Canberra do not prevail in the other capitals. We might ask why the Commonwealth does not involve itself in the cost of land in our major cities. Why does the Commonwealth not co-operate with State and local government authorities to defeat the land speculators and usurers who are exploiting young people seeking homes in which to raise families? 
The Leader of the Opposition, during t he 1969 election campaign, said in his policy speech: 
Land prices are artificially high in Australia because we are one of the few urban countries in which public participation in land development is almost unknown. 
A Labor Government will make grants to the States to acquire substantial areas of residential land on just terms and to subdivide, service and sell it at cost. 
He also said: 
Labour would subsidise to reduce by 2% the interest paid on loans on land and dwellings. 
These are some of the proposals by which Labor would assist young people to acquire a home site and dwelling. The Labor Party is aware that this crisis, this chaos, this law of the jungle, this exploitation of the many by the few can and must be solved by planning. It can be solved as a part of urban development. It will be necessary to replan the inner suburbs of our capital cities in regard to semi and high density housing to ease the burden of the outer suburban sprawl. The great city authorities and semi-government authorities will need Commonwealth participation. In the outer suburban areas land is available - in some cases large tracts of land are held by speculators - and the Commonwealth's financial resources should be utilised. 
The Commonwealth, in conjunction with the States and local government authorities, should retain or acquire land. We should co-operate with the States and local authorities to provide all services, including transport services, on the principle that land for homes .would be made available on a 99-year lease basis. Why is it that in Canberra, which is the fastest developing city in Australia a person can acquire a home site for $900? Why should a person have to pay 6 or 7 times that price in Sydney and Perth? The priority should be a person's requirements and not his bank balance. The Commonwealth Government should involve itself in all our cities. It should, involve itself not only in Canberra but in all of our urban living areas. In another 30 years Sydney will have a population of 5 million, It is only with the co-operation of governments at all levels that the chaos of city land problems, such as in Sydney and Melbourne, can be solved. The Commonwealth should and must play its part. 
First of all let me say that I welcome the legislation. I am speaking now in the late stages of the Committee consideration of the Bill. I was unable to make any comment at the second stage. Even though $200,000 is only a small amount, in my mind a very important principle is involved. Although the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is a radical of the right, and proud of it, in his own way he is trying to do some good for the needy people of the community. The precedent that he set, which we on this side of the House applaud above everything else, is that by means of this legislation the Commonwealth Government and the Department of Social Services pay money direct to local government authorities. Under this precedent Commonwealth revenue will be paid directly to local government authorities which provide Meals on Wheels services. I have 4 municipal councils in my electorate- the Parramatta City Council, the Bankstown City Council, the Auburn City Council and the Holroyd City Council. All these councils provide a Meals on Wheels service and will therefore, under this legislation, receive finance directly from the Commonwealth. Local authorities are close to the people and are in need of finance more than any other government authorities in Australia. The Minister in his own way has tried to break through barriers of the establishment in this field. One has to understand the history in regard to care for the aged or home care programmes. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  seeks to add the following words to paragraph (1):  and lo report to the Parliament on such matters as arc referred to it by either House of the Parliament. 
It is perfectly clear that we are placing on record that we want more open thought, more discussion, more freedoms and a more independent expression of attitude by this Parliament on foreign affairs. In moving this amendment, we are aware of the historical consequences. When we are the Government we will have to live up to this commitment. 
The Minister for External Affairs has interjected and said that we would change it immediately. We have given deep thought to this subject, and we feel that we want more freedoms and more open discussion in the Australian community, because we believe that the Australian community should be better informed on foreign affairs than it is at present. My colleague the honourable member for Fremantle mentioned the hysteria about an alleged attack on United States destroyers and the fact that the  President  was given power to move unlimited numbers of troops into Vietnam. United States expenditure on the war in Vietnam rose to S30,000m per year. 
When General Westmoreland requested another 206,000 troops it was found that this would increase expenditure on the war by from $12,000m to $14,000m. They found that it was an impossibility to go any further. Later in Senate investigation committee hearings it was disclosed that it was not an attack on United States destroyers in the Gulf of Tonkin. An error was made in radar detection. 
The Minister's statement this evening was a resume of what has been appearing in the Press. Did the Minister, in his first statement on foreign affairs to this House, present any fresh information about developments in the world? Did he indicate what line Australia should follow in world affairs? The question of Cambodia arose this evening, but did the Minister give us the real facts? What has occurred in Cambodia? What led to the overthrow of Prince Sihanouk? 
Sihanouk. The sophisticated Minister is worrying about the pronunciation of the name of an Asian leader. We want to know the facts. What is happening in that country? The amendment moved on behalf of the Labor Party in relation to this joint parliamentary committee suggests that through its operations we want an informed Parliament. The Minister said that the Executive has control of foreign affairs. We are not trying to lake that power from the Executive. In 1968 I was in a parliamentary delegation that went overseas to examine the European Economic Community. The Leader of the delegation was the former Minister for External Affairs,  Mr Freeth.  When we were in The Netherlands we found that the Parliament of The Netherlands had passed a motion condemning the attitude of The Netherlands Government in supporting the American stand on Vietnam. This did not alter the views of The Netherlands Executive or of its Minister for External Affairs,  Mr Luns.  He could take into consideration the Parliament's view but still carry out his Government's policy. If we are to have an enlightened Parliament and a more enlightened Australia on foreign affairs we must broaden the scope of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It must be given power to investigate and to inquire into various aspects of foreign affairs. The amendment can only strengthen both Houses of this Parliament. It can give more freedom and dignity to both chambers. It will bring a more informed attitude to Parliament. Members of the Committee will investigate matters and report back to the Parliament, instead of the Parliament having to wait for a resume of local Press articles from the Minister for External Affairs. 
I ask the Minister not to hold firm to his dogmatic decision to reject the amendment. He should accept the amendment because its acceptance will be in the interests of both Houses of Parliament. We are not trying to take away any Executive power. What we are trying to do is to enable the Foreign Affairs Committee to delve into the facts.  We do not want the Government's jingoistic attitude on foreign affairs to continue. We want an informed Parliament and an informed Australia. We want an informed attitude in the community on foreign affairs. We want to lift out of foreign affairs the fear and hysteria that seems to prevail on the Government side. 
My question, which I address to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Bennelong in regard to war service homes.In reply to the honourable gentleman, the Prime Minister said that $50m had been spent on war service homes this year. Is the Prime Minister aware that the report this financial year of the War Service Homes Division discloses that the income the Government receives from war service homes is in excess of $70m? Is the Prime Minister aware also many Vietnam veterans who have made application for homes have been informed that they must get the finance to bridge the gap between their money and the cost of the home and that they are paying from 14% to 20% in interest rates? I ask the Prime Minister: Will he make money available immediately from war service homes revenue or instruct the Commonwealth Bank to make bridging gap loans available to these young men so that they may get a home without suffering the infringement of these exorbitant usurers rates to build a home? 
Today I contacted the War Service Homes Division and sought from an officer there details of the waiting time for finance to purchase a war service home, and I was informed that an applicant for a loan to purchase a new home would have to wait 6 months from the date of application to receive the loan. If an exserviceman were to make an application for a loan today he would be unable to get it until 8th or 9th October 1970. I was informed that prior to the 6 month waiting time applications which were in order would have been finalised within 42 to 60 days. Last night in this House the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  stated on 3 occasions - firstly to the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  secondly to myself, and thirdly to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - that the period of delay was some 6 to 8 weeks. This is not the position. I do not want to make an accusation that the Prime Minister is telling an untruth, but it is about time that he was fair dinkum on this matter. 
The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  who represents the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  in this House, and who wears his badge with pride, is sitting at the table. I ask him and those other honourable members on the other side who wear that badge with pride to give us support on this question of the waiting time for loans to purchase war service homes. I do not talk only about the Prime Minister telling untruths. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member must not make any personal reflection on any other member of this House. 
I am not making any personal reflection. I want to make it perfectly clear that it is not my practice, nor has it ever been, to make personal reflections against any honourable member, but facts are facts and I am dealing with them. The Prime Minister said that there was a waiting time of 6 to 8 weeks. If you permit me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will show clearly that not only is the Prime Minister telling untruths but also that the Minister for Housing is doing so. Last night the Minister admitted that the waiting time was 6 months. She said: 
The normal processing time is 4 months. 

 Senator McClelland interjected and said: 
Plus 2 months, making 6 months. 
Dame Annabelle continued: 
The normal processing time is 4 months. A slight delay of 2 months is added. 
Dame Annabelle's statement also was untrue. I have clearly stated that it takes 42 to 60 days on an average to process a war service home application and not 4 months as stated by Dame Annabelle. I state clearly and emphatically that the Prime Minister last night, and Dame Annabelle in the Senate, clearly misguided both Houses of the Parliament. There is a 6 months waiting time for a person who wishes to buy a home. It is about time the Government was fair dinkum on this issue. 
Let us consider now the bridging of the gap between the maximum loan available and the cost of an average house. At present the loan is $8,000 and if a person needs bridging finance he must go to a private solicitor to arrange for a special loan. This costs $80 to $90 in legal fees. Generally special loans necessitate the payment of usurious interest rates, which are 3 or 4 times higher than the interest rate on war service home loans. If bridging finance were made available through the War Service Homes Division the legal processes would cost ex-servicemen only about $15. But at present they are forced to go to private solicitors and not only have they to pay higher interest rates but they must pay $80 to $90 to have the legal transaction finalised. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table, extracted from annual reports of the Director of War Service Homes. 

<graphic href="966131197004083_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

The table indicates that the War Service Homes Division's revenue exceeds its expenditure in recent years. In 1966-67 its outlay was $59.1 2m and its revenue $67.05m. In other words, its revenue exceeded its expenditure by about $8m. In 1967-68 the Division received $23. 15m more in revenue than it expended and last year revenue exceeded expenditure by $22.43m. Last night, in reply to a question I asked about bridging loans, the Prime Minister said: 
It is difficult to believe that this period of delay of some 6 or 8 weeks would require, in most cases, bridging finance to be negotiated or that it would make any significant difference in that period of time if this were to happen. 
It is not a matter of 'if this were to happen' because it does happen, and a period of 4 months is involved. According to the table I have had incorporated the average cost of a dwelling and land in New South Wales is $12,178. The maximum loan is $8,000. An ex-serviceman must find the difference between the amount of the loan and the cost of the home and land. Most likely he must pay high interest rates on the  bridging  finance. It is not good enough for the Prime Minister to say: 'We will continue with the present loan and they can get another loan*. I draw these facts to the attention of the ex-servicemen opposite. In fairness to them I might say that 1 know some of them are giving this matter consideration. 
In 1950-51 when the average cost of a dwelling and land in New South Wales was $4,160 the maximum loan, aavilable for a war service home was $5,500, or some $1,340 more than the average home cost. But today the maximum loan is $8,000 and the average home cost is $12,178. The Australian average for the cost of a dwelling and land exceeds $13,000. The Government is prepared to send young men to Vietnam. It has spent over $l20m on the war in Vietnam and proposes to spend an additional $42m this year. It can find money to send men to Vietnam but when those men return the Government cannot make money available to them for homes. They have to find bridging finance and have to pay excessive interest rates on their special loans. It is not good enough. This Government should meet its responsibilities and - make money available. We are asking the Government to make money available now. The Reserve Bank in co-operation with the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  can, after the Prime Minister and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  have gone into a huddle, make money available to farmers at interest rates 11% lower than normal interest rates. 
It is not a sore point, but if it is good enough for the goose it is good enough for. the. gander. The honourable member is an ex-serviceman. On the one hand he supports the farmers and on the other he conscripts young men and sends them to Vietnam, but he will not support the proposal to make money available so that they can get a housing loan when they return. The base of war service home loans should not be restricted, as it has been restricted by the Government, but should be broadened. We should not be narrowing the operations of the War Service Homes Division but should be broadening them. The Division is a fine instrumentality. The Australian Labor Party has given it support. .We have admiration for the officers and men who work in the Division and we support the principle of war service homes, but the Labor Party wants to see a broadening of the scope of the Division. We want to restore to all ex-servicemen the right which they held until 1951 to .transfer mortgages to the Division. We want the Division to take a more liberal attitude towards the granting of a second war service loan to exservicemen who are forced to change their place of residence due to illness or the requirements of their employment. A Labor government will grant to all regular soldiers, whether they served overseas or not, the right to a war service loan. A Labor government will grant to all British and allied exservicemen now residing' in Australia the right to purchase or build a home with a war service loan. A Labor government will grant a war service loan to all members of the Citizen Military Forces who have served for 6 years. 
In conclusion, let me clear up one point: Yesterday the Prime Minister said that there was a delay in the provision of war service finance only in cases involving the purchase of a new or existing home. He said that the delay amounted to 6 or 8 weeks. In the last financial year loans were granted to 7,163 applicants. Only 726 of those approvals were for homes to be constructed. The remainder involved the purchase  at  homes already constructed, the discharge of mortgages and other matters. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a' list, extracted from the most recent report of the War Service Homes Division, showing the break-up of approvals for loans in 1968-69. 

<graphic href="966131197004083_15_3.jpg"></graphic>

The list shows clearly that only 726 homes were constructed, notwithstanding that 7,163 loans were approved. When a person obtains approval for a loan to construct a home progressive payments are made as the building proceeds, but we want a person who wishes to purchase a home to be able to walk into the War Service Homes Division secure in the knowledge that he can finalise arrangements within 42 to 60 days, as he was able to do in the past. We want finance to be made available immediately for all ex-servicemen. We want to broaden the scheme to embrace those people who were covered prior to 1951. A Labor government will do all of these things. 
 I rise to a point of order,  Mr Speaker.  The Minister claims to have been misrepresented but he is proceeding to make a broad statement. In no way  is  he indicating where the honourable member for Dawson misrepresented him. The Minister is talking about tactical procedure. This is not a tactical procedure. Statements were made that the Leader of the House clearly understood. Now he is going beyond a personal explanation. 
1 will be brief. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  moved a motion of censure against the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden).  Without worrying about historical precedents set down in 'May's Parliamentary Practice' or the Standing Orders, any normal and sensible  chairman  of a committee would see that the amendment moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  is a complete negation of the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition, and would immediately rule the amendment out of order. What concerns me is that here we are setting precedents. The pressure of numbers is being applied in this Parliament to set a precedent. You,  Mr Speaker,  will be setting a precedent to defend the Government and the Prime Minister. This is not in the best interests of the Parliament. If you set such a precedent you will regret your decision. 
I was in the House this afternoon when the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made his statement regarding the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He said - and 1 heard it clearly - that the only particular on which the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  had erred was when he said that the Communist was not on the platform, but that in fact he had spoken from the platform at a different time. I think we agree on that. 
Very well. I believe from time to time the Prime Minister has been smeared unfairly and, believe it or not, on occasions I have even defended him. But it does him little credit when he uses terms loosely and makes accusations against other colleagues. If a person outside the House defames an individual and wants to lessen the defamation, he will make sure that at the earliest possible time a rectification of that defamatory accusation is made. The Prime Minister is a busy man, but he has a large staff available to help him. If the Prime Minister throws in a loose accusation and he finds that he has made a mistake, it is about time that he was man enough to get up and say: 'I am wrong'. I will have more respect for the Prime Minister when, if he makes a mistake, he rectifies it. From time to time I know that I have made mistakes, and I have tried to rectify them. When I say that I have made mistakes I mean that I have used the forms of this House to make accusations against persons. I have made those accusations under privilege. I have learned from certain experiences through which I have gone, and I might say that it was a very difficult period. In consequence, I have done my best to ensure that when I have erred in making an accusation I have tried to rectify it. 
I know that the Prime Minister has to bear great responsibilities, but it is time that he set the standard of decorum in this place. If he makes an accusation and he is challenged on that accusation, he should have it checked quickly and properly, and if it is wrong, it is time that he came into this House, apologised and corrected the mistake. I think that this Parliament and the country will have more respect for the Prime Minister when he does that. 

 Mr GORTON (Higgins- Prime Minister) - I wish to make a personal explanation because I believe I have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  unwittingly.  Mr Speaker,  I believe I made it quite clear - I hope I made it quite clear - that the statement that the Communist spoke from the same platform at the same time as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was wrong; that, in fact, he spoke from the floor at the same meeting. I have corrected that and made that clear. 

 Dr J. F. CAIRNS (Lalor)- What the Prime Minister has just said and what he said before is a misrepresentation and I want to make a personal explanation about it. 
I must answer certain statements made by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  First, he said that  Dr Cairns  had not rung up a newspaper and complained about false reporting for some 10 days. That is false. I have been informed by the honourable member for Lalor that he rang up on the day the report appeared. The honourable member for La Trobe made accusations concerning my attitude to freedom of association. The best thing that a member of Parliament can do is to be frank at election time to tell the people what his attitude is and what his philosophy is. I issued a pamphlet, and I quoted the words 'Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere'. They were the words of Martin Luther King and I subscribe to them. In that pamphlet I also said To represent people one must stand for tolerance and for freedom of association with anyone who stands for what is good, irrespective of his race, religion or polities'. I signed it 'Tom Uren. M.P. for Reid.' That is my philosophy and I will stand by and with anybody who stands against the war in Vietnam, irrespective of his politics. 
It was interesting to hear the statements of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  the person responsible for law and order in Australia. Where are the Ministers to support him in this debate? There is none. He brings in as his first lieutenant the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  followed by the honourable member for La Trobe. The honourable member for Parkes, the present Attorney-General, is a well-known hawk, as are the two honourable gentlemen opposite who have supported him in this debate. They are men who have stood for the escalation of the war in Vietnam. They stood in the House night after night with the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  calling for the bombing of British shipping in the harbour of Haiphong. They advocated the escalation of the war and the bombing of North Vietnam. 
The United States of America was spending $US30,000m a year on that war and it was only when General Westmoreland asked for an additional 206,000 troops and the request was examined on the basis of economics that it was calculated that these additional troops would cost a further $US1 2,000m. At that time there was a run on gold. There was insecurity in the United States dollar. General Westmoreland was promoted upstairs.  President  Johnson stopped the bombing of North Vietnam and sought peace negotiations at the conference table with the people against whom America was fighting. What happened to Wall Street which, in fact, was supporting the military machine? Instead of shares dropping in price as they would have done the year before they rose because the financial powers of the United States knew that they had over-extended their position to such an extent that the United States Treasury was in jeopardy. There had to be a cessation; there had to be a deescalation of the war. The hawks advocated escalation, they had never advocated deescalation and negotiation. 
Again and again I have expressed the opinion - the honourable member for Lalor and many other honourable members on this side of the House have expressed the view, too - that if we are to have peace negotiations in Vietnam there has to be negotiation and compromise on both sides. We believed it was possible to bring about these negotiations. We still believe it is possible to bring about peace in that country. Now the Attorney-General wants to know something about law and order. When this so-called eminent lawyer is talking about the rule of law, he is referring to rule of legalism? When he talks about the rule of law and order the question to be asked is this: Whose law and what order? After all, if one looks at the history of mankind one finds that Socrates stood against the law of the land. Jesus of Nazareth stood against the law of the land. Does anybody argue that Pandit Nehru and Mahatma Gandhi stood against the law of the land in British India? Of course they did, and they finished up in a British gaol. Does anybody question that Chief Albert Luthuli of South Africa - he was a Nobel prize winner, for the information of the honourable member for La Trobe - stood up against the law of the land? Did Martin Niemoller oppose the so-called law of the land in Nazi Germany? Does the AttorneyGeneral worry about the law of the land in Nazi Germany? What about those eminent lawyers who were tried at Nuremburg? And did Martin Luther King stand against the law of the land? Of course he did. 
Let us stop this rubbish about the law of legalism. That is what the AttorneyGeneral's position is - not the law of the land. I listened with interest to and read the Attorney-General's statement closely. It was a repetitive and dreary document; it was a conservative, conformist statement. It was supposed to be based on fact, but was it? 1 want to give an example of the actual facts we are dealing with. In his statement the Attorney-General said: 
The honourable member for Lalor is prominent in activities of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. On 18th December last, when he held office as Acting  Chairman  of its Victorian organising Committee, he wrote me a letter ... the honourable member asserted that on 'the recent Moratorium Days' in the United States, vast numbers of Americans had taken part in a series of dramatic, peaceful events calling for an end to the war.' 
Then the Attorney-General stated: 
The publicly reported facts are that, in the course of the Vietnam Moratorium demonstration held in Washington on 15th November last, more than 100 people were injured and demonstrators, by looting and other forms of violence, did extensive damage to private and Government property. 
The honourable member's departure from the facts on this point cannot but detract from his reputation - the more so as he is given to claiming an intimate knowledge of this subject. But I feel bound to emphasise this departure in order that the methods of persuasion adopted by the honourable member and by the promoters of this Campaign should be widely known for what they are - utterly devoid of candour. 
Let us look at the facts. Let us look at the credibility of the Attorney-General and the honourable member for Lalor. I propose to quote from a very informative source, probably the most respected newspaper in the world. I shall quote from the New York Times' of 17th November 1969. I hear laughter from the opposite side but does anyone in the Press gallery, does any responsible person in Australia, say that the New York 'Times' is not one of the great news media of the world? I challenge anyone to do so. Of course the honourable member for La Trobe would. He would say that the only newspaper you can really trust is the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph'. The following article appeared in the New York Times': 
Demonstrating Against the War 
No American political leader can afford to ignore a demonstration of public sentiment as large, as fervent and as preponderantly dignified as last Saturday's peace rallies m Washington and San Francisco. . . . 

 With only a relative handful of extremist exceptions, the demonstrators conducted themselves with a gracious good humour and self-assurance that stood in marked contrast to the nervous distemper of the Administration they challenged. 
It seems to me that is being repeated on this occasion. The article continues: 
The general peacefulness of the protests was especially impressive in view of the efforts of some high Administration officials and others to create an atmosphere of alarm. Much credit is due to the demonstrators' own marshals and to the restrained District police . . . 
As Jong as the fighting goes on and there is evidence that the United States and its allies are not doing all they could to promote peace, Americans opposed to the war must continue to make their views known in every possible legitimate way. That is their right and their duty as citizens, even if their actions invite the scorn of VicePresident Agnew. 
We have not a Vice-President Agnew but we have an Attorney-General, and there is not much difference between them. That was the editorial in the New York 'Times'. The Attorney-General, who has a large research staff available to him, has the ability to bring in here a report based on the facts instead of the bilge that he has put before this House. What he has said is, in the light of the information put forward, utterly false. 
The Attorney-General interjects and mentions 'Newsweek'. 1 do not mind his coming in here and talking to the amendment. He may bring in 'Newsweek' and put it before the House so we may analyse it. But there was not one quotation or one authority in his speech to back up what he describes as facts. Everything, said this man of the law, was a well known fact. But there was no evidence, no authority, to support his statements. I ask honourable members to judge the credibility of the honourable member for Lalor and the AttorneyGeneral. Let us examine the facts about these demonstrations. In Washington, 250,000 people marched and 150,000 people marched in San Francisco. They marched in this non-violent way and they were applauded by the editorial that I have just quoted from one of the great newspapers of the world. Yet, the Attorney-General brings this diatribe before us. 
I wish to deal with the question of violence also. Throughout his speech, the Attorney-General talked about the question of violence. If this Government is so concerned about the question of violence here in Australia and about demonstrators, what about the men who are dying in Vietnam? Probably some of the most barbaric actions ever perpetrated in the name of a government are being performed in Vietnam. I have said this before: I believe that the actions - the war crimes - that are being committed in Vietnam are as bad as the Nazi atrocities during the Second World War. Will anybody here say that there is anything worse than the use of napalm on a family? These bombs are dropped indiscriminately. In fact, napalm burns so deeply that it melts the skin and melts the bone. This is the sort of inhuman action that this Government supports. Yet, it talks about violence. 
More bombs have been dropped on Vietnam than were dropped on the whole of the Axis Powers during World War II. I point out further that two-thirds of these bombs have been dropped on South Vietnam. Do not let us think that all the bombs are being dropped on North Vietnam, because twothirds have been dropped on South Vietnam. The American forward air command is made up of men who fly in helicopters and who play the role of God. What do they do? They see a movement on the ground and they call in bombers to strafe the area. The bombers strafe in such a way that it is true to say that no Americans have ever had fire power applied to them in the same way that it is applied to the Vietnamese. 
In areas that are known Vietcong areas just a movement is needed. The consequence is that the people there are condemned to death. Yet the Government talks about violence. Let us equate this question of violence with the indiscriminate killing which follows the sighting of a slight movement in a known Vietcong area and results in that area being devastated. What right have honourable members opposite to talk about violence? Their Government is a guilty Government. It has done nothing to bring tolerance and restraint to the war in Vietnam. It has been a 'hawk1 Government only. That is why not one reasonable or rational honourable member from the back bench and nobody of responsibility on the front bench on the Government side has risen to support the statement made by the Attorney-General. The statement shows the irresponsibility of this Government. It wants to continue to smear. 
In my view, we should ask questions about our so-called democratic society. Let us look at this matter. We must recognise that Parliament is only a part of a democratic society. We should welcome people who participate in our society by expresing their views publicly. If our society is to be a healthy one, surely we all should agree that it was a healthy thing to see the farmers walking down the main streets of Melbourne. Surely this is good for our society and surely it is good that we should witness these demonstrations. 
I turn to the rights of the individual. If it is the right of the farmers to walk down the streets of Melbourne to seek economic justice - and I support them - surely it is the right of men who feel appalled that their Government is supporting actions in Vietnam which are equal to the Nazi atrocities in the Second World War to demonstrate? Why should not young men, old men, people of all ages and of all fields of political thought have the right to demonstrate by marching through the same streets? Why have they not the right to take to the streets? Why have they not the right to say: 'Wc want an end to this war in Vietnam. We want to see peaceful negotiations. We want to see all foreign forces withdrawn from Vietnam. We want to see the people of Vietnam determine their own affairs in their own way'. 
I conclude with the remarks made by John Fitzgerald Kennedy in an address on 26th October 1963. He said: 
The men who create power make an indispensable contribution to the nation's greatness. But the men who question power make a contribution just as indispensable, especially when that questioning is disinterested. For they determine whether we use power or power uses us. 

 Mr JESS (La Trobe)-  Mr Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
The  chairman  of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign,  Dr Cairns,  MHR, yesterday called on workers and students 'to occupy the streets of Melbourne' on Friday May 8. 

 Dr Cairns called on all workers, students and citizens to stop work and take over the streets of Melbourne and provincial towns. 
The honourable member for Reid went on to say that the honourable member for Lalor had been to the newspaper and had demanded-- 
I take a point of order,  Mr Speaker.  I did not refer to what appeared in the newspaper. What I said was that the honourable member for La Trobe said that the honourable member for Lalor had stated that it took him 10 days to have a retraction or alteration made. I quoted the honourable member for Lalor as saying that, in fact, he informed the newspaper that very day, the first time the article appeared. In no way has the honourable member for La Trobe been misrepresented. He is just quoting what is in the newspaper. 
The first two paragraphs of the 'Sun' report on March 26 said: 
The  chairman  of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign,  Dr Cairns  MHR- 
I have already drawn notice to this: 
. called on workers and students to occupy the streets of Melbourne'. . . . 
The 'Sun' continues to quote its report of 26th March. Then it states: 
The 'Sun' believes that the report on March 26 was an accurate account of what  Dr Cairns  said and that the heading was a fair representation of what was contained in the report. 

 Dr Cairns has made no complaint to the 'Sun' in the 10 days since the report was published. 
I was called a deliberate liar. Perhaps the honourable member for Reid may wish to withdraw that remark. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst welcoming the extended scope for grants offered by the Bill, the House is of opinion - 
that the clauses of the Bill relating to credit unions should be redrafted to give credit union savings complete and unconditional recognition under the Act; 
that the restored benefit provided by the Bill in respect of those persons who were previously ineligible because their savings were not in a designated Homes Savings Account should be dated to commence from 31st December. 1967; and 
that an applicant should, where necessary, have the right on appeal to have land and dwelling-house valued by a Government Valuer of the Commonwealth Taxation Office'. 
This Government stands condemned for the humbug and hypocrisy it has displayed in taking so long to bring this legislation before the House. The Government made an election pledge to increase from $15,000 to $17,500 the maximum limit of grant under the homes savings grant scheme for the purchase of land and the building of a dwelling. The Government could have easily brought this legislation forward last November when the Parliament assembled after the October election. There is no valid reason why the increased limit was not introduced at that time. Evidence was given to this House in a Grievance debate on 1st May 1969 in a speech I made pointing out that it was impossible within the metropolitan areas, and particularly the metropolitan area of Sydney, due to the increase in the price of land for the land and dwelling together in most cases to cost less than SI 5,000. 
To give honourable members some idea of the cost of land in respective areas I would like to cite prices in Labor voting areas. At Fairfield land has increased from $2,000 in 1959 to $6,000 last year. The cost of land at Merrylands also increased from $2,000 in 1959 to $6,000 in 1969. In the area where I live at Guildford, the cost of land has increased from $2,000 to $6,500. The examples F have given are for Labor voting areas. For a young couple in these areas to be eligible for a grant under the Homes Savings Grant Act they must build a home for well less than $10,000. They would have to build a home costing about $9,000 or even less to be covered under the present scheme which has a limit of $15,000. This was the position at the last Budget. But the Government would not take the advice that was given as early as May of 1969. 
Let me explain still further. Let us look at the position of the growing areas and new areas that are represented by members on the other side of the House. We find, for instance, the cost of land at Frenchs Forest has increased from $3,000 in 1959 to $9,500 in 1969. This means that to qualify for the grant at the moment a person would have to build a house worth not more than $5,500. The average price for a block of land at Pennant Hills in 1959 was $3,000 but rose to $9,600 in 1969. At St Ives it has also risen to astronomical heights. It rose from $4,100 to $17,500 over the same period, and at Belrose it rose from $2,000 in 1959 to $9,600. in 1969. 
These figures were disclosed in a survey by a prominent writer for the 'Sydney Morning Herald',  Mr Glascott.  He wrote 3 articles from 5th to 7th November 1969 about a survey of land prices between 1959 and 1969. The average price for a block of land in Sydney today is $6,800. My colleague, the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  will deal with the inflation of land prices in Perth, and other members from other States will deal with the price of land in their States. Because of the way land prices have risen this legislation should have been brought forward during the last Budget session. The evidence was available. It is now 6 months after the Government made its election promise that this thimble and pea legislation has been introduced. 
I brand the legislation as inadequate for 2 reasons. Firstly, the grant of $500 is given with one hand and taken away with the other by sleight of hand; I am dealing only with land and building values and the burden of interest repayments during the period from October 196? to April 1970, that is, from the time that the Government made its pledge at election time in October of last year to increase the value of the home for which a grant may be paid, to April of 1970. I will later deal with the period from the inception of the homes savings scheme in May 1964 to April 1970. 
By increasing the interest rate on a $15,000 housing loan over a 15-year period from 5% to 5£% the total amount to be repaid would be increased by $711. The monthly repayments would be increased from $118 to $122, an increase of about $4 per month. If the interest rate was increased from 8% to 8i% - and a great number of persons are at present paying this interest charge - the repayments on the same loan over the same period would be increased by $785. The monthly repayments would be increased from $143.35 to $147.71, an increase of $4.36 per month. If the $15,000 loan was to be repaid over a period of 25 years and the interest rate was increased from 5% to 51%, the increase in total repayments would be $1,327, or an additional $4.42 a month. If the increase in interest charges was from 8% to 84% on the $15,000 loan over 25 years the borrower would have to repay an additional $1,504, or $5.01 additional a month. To provide honourable members with further details I have had a .table- compiled by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library 
Legislative Research Service. With the concurrence of honourable members 1 incorporate this table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="966131197004153_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

Before I proceed Jet me deal with a question that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  during question time this afternoon. The honourable member for Gellibrand was dealing with the increase of one-half of 1% in the interest rate for housing loans. He asked in part:  . . why is there discrimination against persons securing finance through banking and other private institutions? 
In other words, he was asking whether an increased repayments burden was being placed on home purchasers. The Prime Minister said that there would be no extra payment but that the total time of repayment would be extended. I interjected and said: 'Another penal provision'. But the Prime Minister did not comprehend. He does not realise that increasing the interest on a $15,000 housing loan over 15 years from  5%  to 5i% will cost the borrower another $711 in repayments whether the time is extended or not. If the loan over that same period was for half that amount the repayments would be increased by at least $400. Over 25 yearsthis is the period over which most homes are paid off - repayments would be increased by more than $1,300. The Prime Minister cannot comprehend that this is a penal provision that affects the ordinary worker. It is about time this Government understood the penal provisions that it is placing on the ordinary person and on the young people. Later I will give some examples of how this legislation operates and I will give some of the historical background of the legislation. 
My second reason for branding this Bill as a thimble and pea act is the proposal to deny the request by the Australian Federation of Credit Union Leagues for the inclusion of credit unions as approved institutions under the homes savings grant scheme. An examination of the proposed conditions for acceptance under the scheme clearly exposes the Government's real intentions. The Government had no consultation with the Australian Federation of Credit Union Leagues prior to the drafting of this legislation, nor did it consider the New South Wales legislation which sets out the conditions under which credit unions may function. In his second reading speech the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  set out the conditions which are covered by clause 5 of the Bill. He said: 
One condition of approval of a credit union will therefore be that at least 15% of its total lending in its most recent financial year, that is to say, about three-quarters of the 20% of its lending that must be in loans for the construction or purchase of a home, shall be loans of not less than $7,000 and be repayable over a period of not less than 12 years. 
Section 7 (d) of the New South Wales legislation covering and controlling credit unions permits a maximum loan of $4,000 to be made by credit unions. On the one hand the Government is bringing legislation before this House and saying that it is serious about a proposal to include credit unions in the homes savings grant scheme and that they will have to make minimum loans of $7,000, but on the other hand the New South Wales legislation provides that they may make a maximum loan of only $4,000. I ask: Is this Government fair dinkum? Even the ordinance covering credit unions in the Australian Capital Territory provides that a loan should not exceed $2,000. That ordinance is administered by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon).  Why was there not consultation between the Commonwealth Government and the New 
South Wales Government or, for that matter, between the Minister for Housing and the Minister for the Interior in respect of credit union activities? The New South Wales Minister who administers credit unions has stated that his Government does not intend to increase the maximum allowable loan of $4,000 by credit unions in the State. It is interesting to note that the New South Wales Minister is a member of the Liberal Party and therefore is of the same political colour as the Commonwealth Minister for Housing, yet there is seemingly no cooperation or understanding between them. 
It mystifies me that a Minister with a department to back her cannot discover the facts relating to the involvement of credit unions in the proposed scheme. Why was not the credit union movement consulted? I point out that 70% of all credit union assets throughout the Commonwealth are held by credit unions in New South Wales, but the maximum loan allowed in New South Wales is $4,000 and the present proposal is that a loan must be $7,000. In his second reading speech, the Minister for the Navy said: 
The Bill will permit a credit union to be approved for purposes of the homes savings grant scheme. The conditions of approval include that at least 20% of its total lending in its most recent financial year was lent to assist its members to own their own homes, that a minimum of $50,000 was lent for these purposes and that these loans were made at an effective interest rate of not more than 74% per annum on a reducing balance basis. 
This proposal is a further example of a lack of any real understanding of the credit union movement. In 1.969 there were 307 credit unions throughout Australia and 234 of them had assets of less than $150,000. The remaining 73 had assets ranging from $150,000 to over $lm. Does the Government propose to disqualify these 230 credit unions immediately because of the limitation of their assets? It is quite possible that these small credit unions have granted more personal loans for housing alterations, housing extensions and to assist in the purchase of blocks of land than some of the larger credit unions. 
I do not believe that the drafters of this legislation have the slightest understanding of what a credit union is or what it stands for. A credit union is a group of people who have a common bond, who agree to save regularly together and to lend these savings to one another at the lowest possible rate of interest. In this way they assist each other to improve their financial position. Members of a credit union have a personal association which brings them into contact with one another and which gives each member a strong sense of responsibility towards the entire group. They can be employees of one organisation, members of the same church, union or lodge or residents of a well defined community area. They are a co-operative and collective group, and they should be encouraged and assisted by this legislation and other Commonwealth legislation. But this legislation will not assist credit unions now or in the future if these stringent conditions are maintained. I will deal with their case in more detail at the Committee stage. I repeat that these restrictive proposals exclude any possibility of the credit union movement being included in the Act. Either these restrictive proposals were deliberate or they show a complete lack of understanding of the credit union movement. That is why the Labor Party has proposed an amendment to the motion for the second reading to provide that the clauses of the Bill relating to credit unions should be redrafted to give credit union savings complete and unconditional recognition under the Act and will move during  th3  Committee stage that the clause relating to credit unions be postponed. 
We must examine the historical background of this legislation. It was first proposed by a former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, in his policy speech in November 1963. The Government had faced near defeat in the 1961 general election. The homes savings grant proposal was one of the magic tricks designed to return the Menzies Government to power with an increased majority. It was the prize that won the young voters. In his policy speech, under the heading 'Housing',  Sir Robert  stated: 
But there are two special problems which we propose to help to solve. 
First, there is a special difficulty experienced by young married people, particularly in the age group up to 35, in financing the purchase of a dwelling. We will provide a Commonwealth subsidy of £1 for every £3 which a person in this age group deposits or shall have deposited, over a period of at least 3 years in an identifiable account at any approved institution, to be released, upon or after marriage, for home building or purchasing purposes. The maximum subsidy for one  house will be £250. Thus by the Commonwealth subsidy. £750 saved in this age group for a home after marriage will be increased to £1,000. For obvious reasons, this will not extend to the purchase of Stale houses, or for the purchase of house and land costing more than £7,000. 
T here can be no argument that this was considered to be a very popular election gimmick. The youth responded to the old political fox - and he was an old political fox. who only worried about today and let tomorrow look after itself. 
The original legislation was introduced in May 1964 by our present Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  who was then the Minister for Housing. It is ironical that it was introduced 6 months after the 1963 election. These few amendments now before us have taken about the same time from the last election to be brought before the House. 1 repeat that these few miserable amendments have taken the same time to bring before the House as the entire original legislation took to be introduced after the 1963 election. In his second reading speech in 1964 the then Minister for Housing said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to help young married couples obtain a home of their own by authorising payment to them by the Commonwealth oftax-free grants to supplement their own savings. It is designed to increase the proportion of national resources available for housing purposes by providing a strong inducement to young people to save in ways which provide funds for investment in housing. 
Housing is vital to the welfare and happiness of individuals and thus to our future development as a nation. Without proper housing, the process of marriage and family formation which are the very essence of Australia's future must be seriously impaired. 
In my earlier comments I made reference to the burden that the recent increase  of 1/2%  would place on a young married couple firstly over a period of 15 years and secondly over a period of 25 years.  I  shall quote the prevailing interest rates from December 1963 and June 1964  to  April 1970. The typical interest rate of permanent building societies in 1964 was 51/2% to 6%. The typical rate  of  interest has increased from 51/2% to 6% in 1964  to  7% and 71/2% today, an increase  of 11/2%.TheinterestrateoftheCommonwealth  Savings Bank in 1964 was 43/4% to  51/4%;  it is now61/4%  to61/4%.  The trading banks overdraft rate was 7% in 1964 and it is now  81/4%.  The insurance companies generally are1/2% higher. I requested the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library to prepare a table relating to the cost of financing a block of land and a dwelling in June 1964 compared with April 1970, with repayments over a period of 25 years atthe prevailing interest rate on a loan of $14,000. I chose $14,000 because at that time that was the maximum loan under the Act. It was increased in 1967 to$1 5,000 and until now has been maintained at that level. I shall deal with the two major lending authorities for home building, the permanent building societies and the Commonwealth Savings Bank. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table of the relative costs of financing a new home in June 1964 and April 1970. 

<graphic href="966131197004153_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

In June 1964 the prevailing rate of the permanent building societies was 54%; today it is 7% - there has been anincrease of11/2% The total interest cost alone over the life of the loan in June 1964 was $11,790. In April 1970 it had risen to $15,685, an increased cost to a young married couple of $3,895 in interest. The monthly repayments in June 1964 were $86; in April 1970 they had risen to $98.95, an increased repayment per month of $12.95. The Commonwealth Savings Bank interest rate. in June 1964 was 43/4% it is now  61/4%,  an increase of11/2% The total increase in interest repayment over the life of the loan would be $3,760; the increase in monthly repayments would be $12.55. I again quote portion of the comments made by the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. He said: 
First, there is a special difficulty experienced by young married people particularly in the age group up to 35, in financing the purchase of a dwelling. 
I ask honourable members: Has anything changed during these 6 years? Is it any easier today for young people to get a home? 
This burden of increased interest has added approximately 83,800 over the life of a loan and the monthly repayments have increased by some $13. This increased interest burden has snowballed into increased land costs and the increased cost of housing to such an extent that a crisis has developed. R. S. Prentice,  President  of the Master Builders Association, reported to Federal Cabinet on 4th February 1970 in the following terms: 
The average cost of land has increased by 182% between 1959 and 1969. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  who has been interjecting, will be interested to know that R. S. Prentice,  President  of the Master Builders Association, said that the cost of a house has increased by 68% over the past 10 years. R. S. Prentice also said: 
The Federation is of the view that a serious national problem exists in the level of residential land prices. The problem of high land prices has particular effect on persons wishing  to  acquire their own homes. High land prices are delaying home ownership for many people; are a major burden for persons or! middle incomes and a family man; and limit the number of houses which need to be built. 
The high cost of land relative to the cost of the houses is also absorbing an ever-increasing proportion of housing finance made available from the traditional lenders for housing purposes. It is therefore absorbing an ever increasing proportion of total investment funds. 
What has changed for the better during the 6 years since the silvery words were uttered by dear old Bob? Is it any wonder that I brand this legislation as 'a thimble and pea act'? One must ask how long you can fool the people. The Government has recognised the inflationary trend in our community by increasing the maximum loan under the Act from $14,000 to $15,000 and now to $17,500. One must ask why the Government has not increased the grant of $500. Why has the Government not increased the grant of $500 when it has increased the maximum loan from $14,000 to $17,500? Let me again refer to the words uttered by the present Treasurer in May 1964. He said: 
Housing is vital to the welfare and happiness of individuals and thus to our future development as a nation. Without proper housing, the process of marriage and family formation which are the very essence of Australia's future must be seriously impaired. 
I think all honourable members should remind the Treasurer of the comments he made 6 years ago. This same honourable gentleman was responsible for placing this penal provision on young married couples by the use of the monetary policy of the Reserve Bank. A penalty of over $1,500 is imposed on a young married couple with a loan of $15,000 being repaid over 25 years by the Government's decision to increase interest rates by i%. The Government's penalty on all married couples who seek a loan today compared with June 1964 is an increased interest payment of over $3,800. This is the result of the increase in interest charges by 1±% since the Minister made that statement 6 years ago. In that statement the Minister said the family group was the very essence, the backbone of the nation. But the Government has imposed this penalty of H%, which in monetary terms represents an increase of $3,800, on every young couple seeking a home. 
I have talked about the increased cost of land. Over the last 10 years alone, land prices have increased by 182% while the cost of housing has increased by 67% in that same period. This is what is happening to young married couples. Unless a better deal is provided, it will continue. I ask honourable members: Should not this Government stand condemned? I ask the Government what it is going to do regarding its overall policy on housing? I ask the Government - or is it unreasonable to ask - as the Master Builders Association asked and as every young married couple seeking a block of land so as to build a home and raise a family asks: What does the Government intend to do about the level of residential land prices which is a serious national problem? 
What does the Government intend to do to provide incentives for the introduction of advanced building technologies and to remove disincentive in the form of some 800 codes of building regulations throughout Australia? What does the Government intend to do to plan a policy for housing Australians? How long will this Government continue to treat finance for housing as an instrument of overall economic policy? Does the Government think that it is impossible to produce a national building code? If it does not when may we expect action towards this end? Is this Government aware of the simple fact that our present proliferation of building codes adds a needless $600 to the cost of every house that we build and adds $60m on to the national outlay on housing each year? 
How much longer must we wait for the Commonwealth Government to give us leadership? What action and what leadership has the Government given to achieve a reduction in the cost of housing by the application of new building methods and materials? Houses can be built more economically with sandwich panels than with conventional components. Kitchens and bathrooms can be prefabricated complete with plumbing by assembly line methods and connected on the site to local reticulated services. Bricks and other materials can be standardised on the basis of modular measurements to combine total interchangeability with total flexibility of design. 
New building technologies are inhibited by 800 separate authorities whose building codes vary from State to State and from municipality to municipality. Innovatory designs, methods and materials cannot be introduced" in any area unless they comply with the local building code or until that code is amended to encompass them. Structural panels cannot be used with maximum economy because building codes still specify studs of the size and nature required by traditional construction techniques. Kitchens and bathrooms cannot be mass produced on an assembly line basis because it is impossible to comply with the requirements of every building code except by providing pipes, drainage outlets and other fittings acceptable under the most exacting of them. Restrictive building codes are estimated to have cost the Australian economy $53m in 1967-68. In 1969-70 they will cost about $60m. 
I turn to building research. What leadership and what incentives has the Government given on building research? Australia's total outlay on building research is about $3m, of which all but 3% is provided by the Commonwealth. This represents a little over 0.1% of the overall building expenditure of $2,500m. This thimble and pea act that we see before us now is no solution to the problem of housing all our people. 
We need radical changes to protect our young people who are being exploited in acquiring land to build a home in which to raise their families. We need a national inquiry to ascertain the housing needs of the nation in the years ahead and to alert Australians to the problems and shortcomings of the building industry as well as to establish beyond doubt or dissension the priorities which should be observed in the allocation of housing finance. 
In the few moments that remain to me I wish to deal briefly with the second and third parts of the amendment that I have moved. Paragraph (2) of my amendment reads: 
That the restored benefit provided by the Bill in respect of those persons who were previously ineligible because their savings were not in a designated Homes Savings Account should bc dated to commence from 31st December 1967; 
The Prime Minister has pledged that the restored benefit will, be dated from 27th October 1969. We believe that there are many people who, because they did not save their money in an account which was designated a homes savings account and authorised as such by the bank for the purposes of attracting the grant, will be deprived of their right to obtain this grant of $500. If any justice at all is to be found in its actions, the Government will backdate this provision, as we have proposed, to 31st December 1967. If honourable members look at the latest report of the operations of the Homes Savings Grant Act they wm find that 1,062 applicants, representing 24.7% of total rejections or 3% of the number of cases of applicants that have been determined, were refused this grant. So, 3% of the applicants were disqualified because they had not followed the procedure. They had saved their money but their account did not bear the stamp showing that it was a homes savings grant account. 
The last paragraph of my amendment reads: 
that an applicant should, where necessary, have the right on appeal to have land and dwelling-house valued by a Government Valuer of the Commonwealth Taxation Office. 
At present, when a person appeals, he or she goes up the steps of the ladder in the Department. A person starts with the Department in Sydney, and finishes up dealing with the Minister. The problem here is one of the rubber stamp. No outside authority is involved at all. The Australian Labor Party believes that in some cases an arbitrary body should be available on the question of valuations. We think that the Commonwealth Department of Housing should not be. involved in this matter. 
I will give the House an example. It is the case of a person in my electorate. Last year the value of his land and building exceeded by $200 the maximum of $15,000. The total value price is $15,200. The valuation of the land is what I direct attention to. This person paid approximately $5,000 for it. But the valuation by the New South Wales Valuer-General put the value of that land as being a little over $3,030. The amount paid by the person for this land was $5,000, approximately $2,000 more than its value according to the Valuer-General. I sought the exercise by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  of her authority to bring this person within the ambit of the Act so. that he might receive the grant. I asked the Minister to take the Valuer-General's price as being the value of the land. This was refused. I believe that any reasonable outside arbitrary authority iri fact would grant that person the $500. One would have thought the Department would have accepted the Valuer-General's price. But, no, it took the price of the land as being $5,000. Land speculators probably helped to inflate the value of that land. I believe that the third paragraph in my amendment will bring some justice to the situation. Therefore, I ask the House to support our proposals. 
The Opposition foreshadows that it will criticise clauses 1 to 4 but it will not divide the Committee. The Opposition will move that clause 5, covering credit unions, be postponed, and we will divide the Committee. We will criticise clauses 6 to 12 but we will not divide the Committee. 
Progress reported. 
I welcome the proposal put forward by the Government to change the sitting hours of the Parliament. We are making progress in this Parliament. I do not want to go into the historical background of the reasons for this progress but I think that all will agree that these proposals make for far saner sitting hours than those we have observed in the past. Much legislation is to come before the House. On the Opposition side are many new members who want to contribute to the debates but they have found that they cannot get an opportunity to speak. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  In fact, I seconded the amendment. 
Why do we want to change the commencing date of the proposed Friday sittings from 8 th May to 15th May? The proposal is that we commence the Friday sittings on 8th May and we are asking the Government to make the commencement date 15th May instead of 8th May. I have already commended the basic proposal. Honourable members opposite have asked why we do not want the Parliament to sit on that day. As I said, this is a new proposal and all I am asking is that the date for its commencement be made 15th May. Some honourable members from this side of the House committed themselves some 3 or 4 months ago to sponsor the Moratorium Campaign. As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said, when the Parliament first met the Government supplied honourable members with a time table and we made our commitments accordingly. But now this proposal has come forward. Government supporters have charged that 75 Opposition members have lent their names to sponsor the Moratorium Committee. They have charged us with setting out to create violence and to achieve by mob rule what we have not been able to achieve in the Parliament. I ask the Government, and particularly the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  to give deep consideration to our amendment. All we want to do is to meet our responsibilities. We want to take part in the Moratorium Campaign so that we can do our utmost to ensure that it will be a non-violent demonstration. 
Let me g:ve an example of what I mean. During the visit of Air Vice-Marshal Ky to Australia there was what was probably one of the biggest demonstrations ever held in Sydney. The demonstrators met at the base of the northern pylon of the Sydney Harbour Bridge. The then Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  addressed the meeting after which there was a march towards Kirribilli House. It had been prearranged with the police that the demonstrators would walk along the footpath past Kirribilli House and return to the base of the northern pylon of the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Because of political decisions outside the control of the police it was decided that the demonstrators would not be allowed to pass the barricades at Kirribilli House. Elements among the demonstrators wanted to take action and rush the barricades. I suggest that if honourable members are interested they read an account of this affair in the 'Bulletin', which has never been a friend of mine. Honourable members know that I have been successful in lengthy litigation against the 'Bulletin'. 
But I must explain our position - our responsibility. If honourable members read that newspaper they will see that as a member of the Parliament and a responsible person interested in ensuring non-violence I took action to lead the men away from the barricades. I did not want them to come into direct contact with the police which may have ended in violence. What we are now saying - and I am not talking for myself only but for all Opposition members - is that we want to try to ensure that demonstrations will be peaceful. There are circumstances in which we may be forced to take another course, but we try to demonstrate within the law and to accept our responsibilities. Charges have been made by the Government that this Moratorium, to which we have lent our name, is trying to create mob violence outside of the Parliament. 
I accept your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  I have been trying to keep to the facts. As supporters of the Moratorium we are striving to end the war in Vietnam. Demonstrations will commence in all capital cities and provincial cities on 8th May. We want to take part and to accept our responsibilities. We commend the Government for the proposed new sitting hours but we are asking it not to expect the Parliament to sit on 8th May but to commence the Friday sittings on 15th May. That proposition is fair enough. I do not say that the Government has deliberately proposed that we sit on 8th May, although some people do suggest that it is deliberate. They say that the Government, by introducing this proposal after the incidents in the House last week, is challenging members of the Opposition to ignore their sponsorship of the Moratorium Campaign. 
The Labor Party's amendment is reasonable. I am not trying to score off the Government but I think that all have learned much as a result of the incidents that occurred in this House last Wednesday night. All honourable members - and I am not trying to segregate one side from the other - have a respect for the Parliament. 
We want to make it more democratic. We want to make it more understanding. We want to make it more open to appeal. We have respect for this Parliament and we want to make it a better House. All that we are asking is that the Government give us a fair go. If the Government is fair dinkum it should accept the Opposition amendment, particularly after making charges against the Moratorium. The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  particularly, after making the charges that he made the other evening about the Moratorium, should advise his colleagues to accept our amendment. 
Clause 4 amends the Act to make provision for divorced persons with dependent children. The scheme is being extended to include divorced persons less than 36 years of age with 1 or more dependent children who have entered into a contract to buy or build a home on or after 27th October 1969. The clause defines a dependent child and makes provisions with regard to traditional savings somewhat similar to those that apply in the case of widowed persons. The clause will permit the acceptance as permissible savings of one-half of savings that were held by a divorced person jointly with his or her former spouse. Acceptable savings will include an approved interest held in the name of the divorced person and any children of the dissolved marriage. The amendment widens the definition of spouse to include, when acceptable savings are being calculated, a person who was a spouse of the eligible person during the former marriage. This will permit the acceptance of one-half of the savings that an eligible person held jointly with his or her former spouse. This provision flows from the 1967 legislation which made provision for widows. Honourable members will recall that when the legislation first came before this House the Labor Party moved amendments to bring widows within the scope of the Act. Those amendments were not accepted by the Government but in 1967 the Government introduced amending legislation to bring widows within the scope of the Act. The legislation is now being further broadened to bring divorced persons with children within its scope. These provisions will affect only a relatively few people. They are limited in their scope but they will be of assistance to some people. The Opposition does not oppose the clauses. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 5 - (Approved credit unions). 
Clause 5 relates to credit unions. Later I will move that the clause be postponed, and the Opposition will seek a vote on the amendment. At the second reading stage I moved: 
That the clauses of the Bill relating to credit unions should be redrafted to give credit union savings complete and unconditional recognition under the Act. 
Because this is a money Bill I am unable to move that amendment in committee. Our only recourse is to move that the clause be postponed. At the second reading stage we criticised the Government for its treatment of credit unions. We accused the Government of being guilty of perpetrating the thimble and pea trick on credit unions. Either the Government is ignorant of the operations of credit unions or it has distorted the facts. Under this legislation the minimum amount which a credit union may lend for housing purposes is $7,000. Of the $100m held by the Australian credit union movement 70% is held by credit unions in New South Wales. Under New South Wales legislation the maximum amount which a credit union may lend for any purpose is $4,000. In other States although credit unions may not be restricted in their lending by Acts of Parliament, their activities are controlled by ordinances requiring that they obtain permission from a registrar before they may increase the advance. In the Australian Capital Territory the maximum amount that a credit union may lend as a secured loan is $2,000. In the case of an unsecured loan the maximum is $800. There is no limit in Queensland. In Victoria the limit is $3,000; in Tasmania $2,000; and in South Australia $2,000. 
I have discussed this matter with credit union officials. No discussions had taken place between the Government and the credit union movement before this legislation was drafted. No discussions on the matter had taken place between this Government and the New South Wales Government, which is of the same political persuasion as this Government. Yet, it seems that no negotiations have taken place with the New South Wales Government. It seems that no contact has been made at all with even the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon).  There has been no contact between the 2 Ministers who are responsible for these matters and who sit together in the same Ministry. I am referring to the Minister for the ulterior who is responsible for credit unions within the Australian 
Capital Territory and the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  whose responsibility covers the homes savings grant scheme. I do not know whether or not this is hypocrisy or whether it is done to create a smoke screen. It seems to me that no real understanding of the problem exists. Credit unions in fact were not set up to provide loans to the extent that has been laid down in this Bill. The conditions that have ben set out in this Bill are stringent. 
Let me read to the Committee what the Credit Union Federation says quite clearly about the matter. It states: 
At no time has the Federation indicated to the Government that credit unions have any intention or desire to enter substantially into the long term housing loan field. In the co-operative movement, this type of lending is adequately handled by the building societies. Credit unions primarily exist to supply consumer credit and personal loans at reasonable rates of interest to their members. The Federation, therefore, seeks complete and unconditional recognition of credit unions under the Homes Savings Grant Act. 
These are the facts relating to this proposition. The credit union movement is not geared to meet the requirements of this Bill. One must equate the requirements of the Bill with the amount of money loaned by the credit union movement. If we examine the proposal from the credit union movement we note that, in New South Wales, the credit union serving the Electricity Commission of New South Wales spends 14% of its money for loan purposes on homes, alterations to houses, extensions or improvements of one kind or another, or on the purchase of land. The Australian Broadcasting Commission Staffs Association Credit Union devotes 12% of its loan money to this purpose. The Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board Employees Credit Union provides 17% of its money for loans for this purpose while the Sydney City Council Employees Credit Union spends 14% of its loan moneys in this direction. Some 16% of the loan moneys of the Motor Transport Employees Credit Union is used for this purpose. These are some of the percentages regarding credit union loans in New South Wales. 
The Bill under consideration requires that a credit union, to be an approved organisation, must spend some 20% of its assets in the housing field. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in 
Hansard a table produced by the credit union movement showing the number of credit unions in  1966, 1967, 1968  and  1969  and their assets: 
I rise to speak because the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  made a statement that the Government had made a generous offer to the credit union movement, that it had placed these conditions before the movement and that the credit unions are very fortunate to have these proposals put before them. I would like to mention the stringent proposals and then the House can make its own judgment. To qualify, a credit union must be making loans to its members for the purpose of acquiring a home. Loans must be made at an effective rate of interest of not more than 7½% per annum on a reducing balance basis. At least 20% of the total lending of credit unions in the most recent financial year must have been by way of housing loans. At least 15% of its total lending in that year, or about three-quarters of the 20%, must have been in housing loans of not less than $7,000 to be repaid over a period of not less than 12 years. The total lending by the credit union in relation to housing loans during the financial year must be not less than $50,000. A credit union seeking approval must give an undertaking that it will continue to meet these conditions in each subsequent financial year. 
Let us examine a few of these requirements. First of all, let us deal with the  7½%  interest rate. What does this  7½%  interest rate mean? Does anyone here really say that an Organisation such as a credit union can continue to make loans over a period of not less than 12 years at7½% interest? I was at the conference of permanent building societies today and I was informed that at present the rate of interest that they pay on deposits is 6% and their ruling rate on loans is 7% to  7½%  . Their assets exceed thousands of millions of dollars. I spoke to the secretary of one of the permanent building societies and he told me that the flow of money at 6% interest was drying up. How can any organisation, whether it be a [permanent building society or a credit union, hope to get money from the public °when organisations such as General Motors Holden's Pty Ltd are offering 9%. Yet this rate of  7)%  is put forward by the Government. 
The Government is trying to force credit unions into long term lending when in fact this is not the function of the credit unions. It has clearly been stated that the permanent building societies were set up for this purpose and not the credit unions. But surely the Government and its supporters know that the credit union movement is making a great contribution to those people who desire to acquire a home. They make a contribution if a person wishes to alter or extend his home. For instance, if a person own a 2 bedroom home, there is an addition to the family and he wants to add another bedroom for the children, loans are available from the credit unions. 
We know that the ruling rate of interest of hire purchase companies is 10% flat, which is 19% to 20% reducible. The credit unions compete with the offsprings of the private banking institutions. We know that some honourable members opposite are spokesmen for the private banks. We had one such honourable member speak yesterday. There is a bankers lobby here. They have the right to speak on behalf of the bankers, so why can we not speak on behalf of the credit unions? Of course, if honourable members opposite want to make this a political issue, I say we support the credit unions because the credit union movement is a collective co-operative movement. It is a non-profit making organisation consisting of people who join together to help one another. There are 3 major hire purchase companies which practically control the whole of the purchase of land. A person cannot get a loan at less than 12% reducible. Of course, one of these companies is owned wholly by the Bank of Adelaide; 42.89% of another is owned by the Bank of New South Wales; and 30% of another is owned by the Bank of Scotland. These spokesmen of the banks, who are in the Government ranks and who are Government supporters, in fact are frustrating the credit union movement. I ask responsible Government supporters to reconsider this position. 
The 13th annual report of the New South Wales credit union movement said this about the homes savings grant scheme: 
During the year the Federation made further approaches to the Federal Government seeking recognition of the credit union as an approved savings institution for homes savings grant purposes. Emphasis was placed on the rapidly increasing role that credit unions are playing in assisting young couples to establish homes and the providing of second mortgage loans and the finance of other essentials such as home appliances and furniture. The Government further continues to ignore these factors by insisting that only financial institutions providing long term housing loans will be approved. 
Of course, the Government's latest generous proposal is that credit union organisations have to start providing long term loans. 
 The honourable member interrupts and asks: "What is wrong with that?' The fact is that the honourable member does not understand the purpose of the credit union movement. A credit union might be established by a group of people working together in a company or in a department. For instance, a group of people in the Sydney City Council formed a credit union. I pointed out to the honourable member earlier that credit unions in New South Wales control 70% of the assets of the movement. It has 234 credit unions with assets of $150,000. Many of these lend more money for housing than do the larger credit union organisations but they have been disqualified because, under this legislation, they have to have lent at least $50,000 in their last financial year and to give an undertaking that they will continue to spend $50,000 each year on housing, and housing alone. I ask the Committee to support our proposition. 
Motion (by  Dr  Forbes) put: 
That the question now be  put. 
I desire now to confine my remarks to clauses 9 and 12. May I say, before commenting on those clauses, that the Minister for Health, who is in charge of the Bill in this Committee, has not seen fit to reply to Opposition members' contentions or views. The Minister did not give the Government's views on clause 5. I want to place this protest on record because my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  expressly desired to have, and I certainly expected to hear, the Government's explanation of why it would not accept our proposal that the Bill be postponed in order to allow the credit unions to be included unconditionally. 
The amendments proposed by clause 9 will permit money held in a savings bank account or on fixed deposit with a trading bank to be treated as acceptable savings for the purpose of this scheme. If these accounts have not been designated 'Homes Savings Account' these amendments will apply in respect of persons whose prescribed dates were on or after 27th October 1969. Again, we wish to criticise this aspect of the Bill. In our amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time we wanted to alter the date from 27th October 1969 to 31st December 1967. It was arbitrary that savings commence from 27th October 1969 whether or not the account was stamped 'Homes Savings Account'. We asked that this be back-dated. I know that there was confusion even in the Government's own party room as to the date from which these people should be considered. I am going to make it clear so that there will be no confusion among Government supporters as to why we put forward our amendment to the motion for the second reading. We were not allowed to move the amendment in Committee because this is a money Bill. In 1968-69 alone 1,062 applicants were rejected. This represented 24.7% of total rejections or 3% of the applicants determined. The Government should consider this group of 1,000-odd people and allow them to backdate their saving to the time that we have suggested. The Government should be lenient in that regard and allow these people to be brought under the Act. 
Under clause 12 of the Bill the value of a house and land for which a home savings grant may be paid is to be raised from $15,000 to $17,500. The Government has recognised that this extra amount is needed to purchase a home. When the home savings grant scheme first came into operation in June of 1964 the maximum allowable cost for a home and land was $14,000. In 1967 it was increased to $15,000. It is now being raised to $17,500. This is a recognition to some extent of inflationary trends. In my speech during the second reading stage I was able to give figures to show how the cost of land in the various suburbs of Sydney had risen between 1959 and 1969. For instance, in the suburb of Guildford where I live the average price of a block of land has risen from $2,000 to $6,500. In fact  Mr R.  S. Prentice, the  President  of the Master Builders Association of New South Wales stated in his recent report to Cabinet that land prices had increased by 182% during the last 10 years and that the average price of a home had risen by some 67%. In fact the average cost of a block of land in the metropolitan area of Sydney is $6,800. In Melbourne it is $4,520; in Brisbane it is $3,800: in Adelaide it is $2,670; and in Perth, according to my report, it is some $6,000. 
know that my colleague the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  wants to make some comment on the spiralling land prices in Perth and how they will affect this clause of the Bill. For once I agree with the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  During the second reading stage he suggested that the value of the house and land for which a grant may be paid should be increased to at least $20,000. Considering the relative values of blocks of land, I would have thought that it should have been lifted to at least $20,000. In fact I put that proposal before the House as far back as 1st May 1969. At that time I gave facts and figures in relation to the cost of land and dwellings in the metropolitan area of Sydney. 
Many honourable members, particularly those who live in the Sydney metropolitan area, know that it is very difficult to get a block of land in an area which votes conservatively, if I can use that term, or which supports Government members, whether it be areas of Belrose, St Ives, West Pymble or Pennant Hills. It would cost at least $9,000 to $9,500 to purchase a block of land in these areas. Yet supporters of the Government, particularly those who live in the metropolitan area of Sydney, are supporting the proposal to increase the amount to only $17,500. We believe that it should be higher than that to allow people to get the benefit of this scheme. 
In the past I have branded this scheme as thimble and pea legislation. I have shown the effect that an increase of even one half of 1% can have. On a $15,000 loan repayable over a period of 15 years it would mean an additional $711 in repayments. For the same loan over 25 years the additional cost would be more than $1,300. Not only should the maximum value of a home attracting a grant be raised to at least $20,000, but the minimum grant should be increased to at least $1,000. The Government on the one hand recognises the inflationary trend and has raised the maximum value for a house and land from $14,000 to $17,500, but on the other hand it has not raised the amount of the grant. I believe that the maximum value of a home for the purposes of the scheme should be at least $20,000 and that the grant should be increased to at least $1,000. That would be nearer to 1964 values. 
I will be brief but before we move out of the Committee stage 1 desire to ask the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  who is at the table, not to make cross-interjections but to answer the question asked by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin).  Clause 14 of the Bill requires credit unions to notify members and intending members of the withdrawal of approval. Clause 14 states: 
After section 26 of the Principal Act the following  setion  is inserted . . . 
That section becomes section 26a of the Principal Act. Sub-section (4.) provides for a penalty of $500. I want to know from the Minister why this penal provision has been inserted to operate against credit unions. I ask the Minister, who has his departmental advisers behind him. to tell me where in this Act there are similar provisions imposing a penalty on the private banking institutions. 
We know that during the period from 31st December 1967 to 27th October 1969 the only way a person could hold savings to qualify under this Act was in a prescribed account stamped 'Home Savings Account'. During that period the savings banks had a monopoly under this Act. Under the guise that th; Government wanted to broaden the proposal to include the credit unions, this penal provision has been inserted, lt is just a lol of hypocrisy because no credit union can in fact meet the conditions. If by some miracle some credit union does meet the conditions it will be subject to this penal provision. I want to know why in the original Act the Government did not impose a penal provision on the banks. I know honourable members opposite are the bankers' friends and I know they represent the banking institutions and the off-shoots of the banking institutions, the hire purchase companies. 
Credit unions are really the competitors of the fringe institutions. Credit unions charge only 10% reducible for consumer goods whereas the fringe institutions, in which the banks are the major shareholders, charge up to 20%. Why has the Government included this $500 penal provision? Why has it not done anything about the banks? Before we get out of the Committee stage I would like an answer. 
That until the end of June, at  11.00  p.m. on each Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and at  4  p.m. on Friday the  Speaker  shall put the Question - That the House do now adjourn - which Question shall be open to debate; if the House be in Committee at that hour, the  Chairman  shall report progress and upon such report' being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the Question - That the House do now adjourn - which Question shall be open to debate. 
I therefore submit that in accordance with the resolution passed by the House today the Minister should report progress, the House should adjourn and this debate should be resumed next week. 
House has not been interpreted as it should have been.I hope that this will not happen again. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Does he recall! the permanent building societies making representations that the amount of money required by statute to be placed in a reserve fund should be treated as an allowable deduction for taxation purposes? I might say that this is already the position in the United States of America. Is he aware that since the Reserve 
Bank increased interest rates by one-half of 1% the finance available to permanent building societies at 6% is drying up? Is he also aware that unless some special consideration can be given to these societies many thousands of young families throughout Australia will be in a hopeless position in trying to acquire a home? 
I promise the Leader of the House that my comments will be brief because I know we have a difficult timetable to keep. As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said, we on this side of the House welcome this proposal. Immigration has thrown a great burden on the States and on education in particular. I rise to bring before the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  an immediate problem in regard to the Chester Hill Public School which is adjacent to the Villawood migrant hostel. I have made representations on this subject. A public meeting was held at the school because of the problem that has arisen. The residents of the area want some immediate relief. I hope the Minister, in co-operation with the State Department of Education, can bring some immediate relief to the Chester Hill Public School through these proposals he has placed before the House. There are great numbers of young migrants from the Villawood migrant hostel going to that school. Class loads have risen to over 40 when they should be under 30. We want to bring the best out of these migrant children and I ask the Minister to give the matter his consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Treasurer aware that the Master Builders Federation is concerned at the difficulty of obtaining finance for homes already constructed or under construction and that the number of houses and flats commenced for the quarter ended March 1970 was lower than in the corresponding period in 1969? It it a fact that the recent increase in interest rates and the credit squeeze divert money from lower profit housing to higher profit investment? Will the Treasurer say whether he will work out ways of redressing the balance in the flow of money in favour of housing or otherwise provide assistance to make up for this diversion of funds? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker-- 

Motion (by  Mr Wentworth)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I gave the honourable member (or Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  (he opportunity to have his document incorporated in Hansard because it will become an historical document reflecting the sickness in the Government's ranks and the fear of any demonstrations or agitation against its policy. 1 expressed my first opposition to Australia's involvement in Vietnam in this House on 25th October 1962 when we had only a few advisers in what has since become a quagmire. Over 400 young Australians have been killed in Vietnam and over 2,000 of. them have been wounded. Many of the wounded have died. lt is interesting to note, if one looks at the historical position of Australia's involvement in Vietnam, that a revered senator -  Senator Hannaford  - in the Government ranks was the one exception who had the courage to break from the Parly on this issue. He had a heart complaint and he was compelled by his conscience to take the stand he did. In fact he killed himself in expressing opposition to the war in Vietnam. With that exception not one member of the Government parties has ever expressed doubts or exercised any restraint in respect of the war in Vietnam. 
It was morally, historically, politically and militarily wrong not only for Australia but also for the United States to become involved in Vietnam. General Douglas MacArthur told John Foster Dulles that any President of the United States who committed American troops to a land war in Asia should have his head examined. This was after the experience of Korea. President Johnson's commitment of American forces to the war in South Vietnam destroyed him. It divided his party and divided his nation. On 6th April 1954 the late John Fitzgerald 
Kennedy, who was then a senator, in referring to Indo-China, is reported in the Congressional Record as saying: 
The time bas come for the American people to be told the blunt truth about Indo-China . . . despite tremendous amounts of economic and material aid from the United States . . . I am frankly of the belief that no amount of American military assistance in Indo-China can conquer an enemy which is everywhere and st the same time nowhere - an enemy of the people which has the sympathy and covert support of the people ... for the United Stales to intervene unilaterally and to send troops on to the most difficult terrain in the world, with the Chinese able to pour in unlimited manpower, would mean that we would face a situation which would bc far more difficult than even that encountered in Korea, lt would seem to me that it would be a hopeless situation. 
The war in Vietnam has been a drain on the United States. I have stated publicly before that in my opinion  President  Johnson stopped the bombing of North Vietnam because of internal moral pressure exerted against his administration by the American people and because of the economic consequences of the war. The war was costing America $30,000m a year. General Westmoreland's call for a further 206,000 troops meant an additional expenditure of at least $ 1 2,000m a year. America could not deal with the economic inflation within the country and it had to stop the bombing of the north, lt could not win the war, although honourable members opposite wanted the bombing increased. As soon as the bombing of the north ceased the stock market, far from falling, rose. The conduct of the war had undermined the finances of the United States. There was a run on gold in Europe and the United States dollar, which had to support the price of gold at $35 an ounce, could not face that commitment and it was necessary to have 2 prices for gold. As a result this had a great deal to do with the cessation of the bombing and was a step towards sanity. But I stress that although the United States may be withdrawing troops from Vietnam it is still dropping more bombs on Vietnam than were dropped in the time of Johnson. More bombs have been dropped on Vietnam than were dropped on all the Axis powers during the Second World War. Two thirds of those bombs have been dropped on South Vietnam. 
Some of the most inhuman actions ever perpetrated on man have occurred in Vietnam. The war is immoral. Every Australian should do everything in his power to try to bring peace to this troubled land. When I talk about the War I speak in terms of what the late  President  Kennedy said in 1954. We have to solve the problem of Indo-China. It is important that if we are to stop the war we should get out of Vietnam. We are creating genocide there. General Lemay, a former United States Air Force General, once said: 'Let us bomb them back to the stone age.' The most powerful nation ever known is doing this to one of the smallest nations in the world; it is trying to bomb this small nation into the stone age. Unless the insanity of this war ceases, this will happen. 
The honourable member for Griffith is attempting to use diversionary tactics. To show the nature of this so-called democratic government in South Vietnam, which this Government supports, let me refer to some particulars given in answer to a question which I directed on 27th September 1967 to the then Minister for External Affairs,  Mr Hasluck.  The Minister told me that the population of South Vietnam was etimated to be about 17 million. Of that number about 8.5 million were entitled to vote. About 5.8 million were registered for a vote and in the elections fewer than 5 million people voted.  President  Thieu received 1.6 million votes.  His  closest opponent received 817,000 votes in a first past the post ballot. That was Truong Dinh Dzu. But where is Dzu now? He is in a South Vietnamese gaol. That is the kind of democracy which this Government and the American Government are supporting in their genocidal activities in South Vietnam. I make it clear, as I have year after year, that if there is to be peace in this area there must be compromise on both sides. I have stressed this over and over again. The parties are now sitting at the conference table in Paris. This was thought impossible not long ago due to the attitude of the National Liberation Front. There is a ray of hope now and I believe that all honourable members should be calling for a de-escalation of the war. I do not accept the domino theory. I believe that the situation in Vietnam is more like that in Spain than in Munich. 
I rose to deal with the important matter of housing. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: in the opinion of this House the Government should make available immediate finance to all successful applicants for war service homes loans.' 
What happens to these young men who wish to acquire a home through the War Service Homes Division after being sent by this Government to Vietnam is ironical. After making application to purchase a home and after everything is finalised they are told that they have to wait 6 months, and they have to arrange temporary finance for that period at very high interest rates. The War Service Homes Division is one sector of the housing field in which the Commonwealth has complete power. That is the reason why I moved my amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 3). At present there is a waiting period of 6 months for applicants wishing to purchase a new home or an existing dwelling. This has been the position since 18th March. In its amendment the Opposition is asking the Government to make available immediately finance to all successful applicants for war service home loans and not make them wait 6 months. 
It is difficult enough for a purchaser to chose the home he desires but cannot immediately finance.  His  position is acute enough even if his application is approved. But let us consider the loan of $8,000 at present advanced by this Government. We find that the average cost of land and dwelling for war service homes in the last financial year, according to the departmental report, is in excess of $13,000. Therefore the applicant has to find an additional $5,000 to bridge the gap between the war service loan and the average cost of the land and dwelling. 
Recently the Government was forced to raise the value of a home for eligibility for a grant under the homes savings grant legislation from Si 5.000 to SI 7,500 because of inflationary trends in land prices and the cost of building. Why was this necessary? To answer that question we must examine land prices in the many electorates and areas represented not only by Opposition members but by honourable members on the Government side of the chamber. I will cite figures prepared following a survey by  Mr Joe  Glascott who was a leading writer for the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. The survey revealed that in an area like Belrose a block of land costs $9,600. The maximum war service home loan is $8,000. How can any young man obtain a homewith a war service loan when a block of land alone costs $9,600? 
I could refer to other areas where land is far more expensive but I am trying to be realistic by selecting areas in the outer suburbs of Sydney in which land is available. For instance, the average price at Castle Hill is $6,750. At Engadine, Fairfield and Merrylands it is $6,000. At Guildford it is $6,500, at Heathcote it is $6,000, and at  Hornsby  Heights it is $6,900. At Pymble West it is $10,000 and at Normanhurst it is $6,500. The figures I stated represent the average cost of land in those areas yet the maximum loan provided by this Government for war service homes is only $8,000. The average loan provided by the permanent building societies is $11,500. We hear honourable members on the Government side speaking in this place about sending young Australians to Vietnam. Four hundred young men have been killed and over 2,000 have been maimed. Yet when they return to Australia and apply for a war service home loan the maximum loan available is $8,000. The average cost even of a housing commission home is a conservative figure of $13,000. The price of the average home in the general private sector would be nearer $14,000 or $15,000. If this were not the case then the maximum figure provided under the homes saving grants scheme for attracting the subsidy would not have been increased from $15,000 to $17,500. The honourable member for Benelong  (Sir John Cramer)  suggested that the maximum figure under that legislation should he $20,000. I agree with him on that occasion. 
It is time this Government stopped talking hypocritically not only about war but about what happens when these young men return from war. It should give them what they are entitled to. 
It is about time honourable members opposite recognised that everybody has the right of freedom of association. Many honourable members fought in World War II - and many suffered - for freedom of association. How can they use the term guilty by association', as did the honourable member for Farrer? This attitude makes democracy sick. This is not what we fought for. We fought for a society in which there was freedom of association and not guilt by association. In our country a man is presumed to be innocent until proved guilty by trial by jury. I have endured smears and innuendos and a long struggle involving litigation as far as the Privy Council. 1 cleared my name after facing 3 juries, all of which exonerated me. There are honourable members on the Government side whom 1 could not imagine surviving the same test. 
In the time remaining to me I shall deal with  some of  the general aspects of housing. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  is in charge of this Bill. I shall quote what he had to say in September 1965 when he was the Minister for Housing. I am quoting from pages 776 and 777 of Hansard for that period. The Minister said: 
. The task of our  monetary  authorities  in  keeping the economy on an even keel so that orderly and rapid expansion  of  the Australian economy can proceed without interruption is one of extraordinary complexity and difficulty, lt is subject to so many forces beyond prediction or even domestic control  that it  requires skill, experience and judgment of the highest order. In such circumstances it  is natural  that  in  the past housing has been regarded  as  one piece of an economic jigsaw puzzle rather than as something of supreme national importance  in  itself. 
The Minister then went on to say: 
However, lbc deficiency  in  using housing to dampen demand is that this impedes the achievement of some of our most fundamental national objectives. 
The Minister continued: 
We live in a fully employed economy without any appreciable reservoir of  labour  and resources which are not already actively employed. However, we do know  now  from  practical  experience that we already have the labour  a'nd  resources to construct upwards of 110,000 dwelling units per annum without undue strain on the rest of the economy. 
It can be noted from the figures that are available that the number of houses that were completed in 1964-65 - the years of which the Minister was talking - was 1 1 2,000 dwellings, flats and houses. In 1965-66 there were 112,000 completed and in the following year there were 110,000 completed. The next year it rose to 120,000 and last year it rose to 130,000. In other words, over a period of approximately 5 years there has been an increase only of some 20,000. I believe that this is not an excessive increase. With our immigration policy and the growth in the number of young people, the demand for homes will increase. Yet the Treasurer when he was the Minister for Housing said there was no planning in this regard. What is he now doing as Treasurer? He is using exactly the opposite proposal to that which he made in 1965. He is applying economic pressure to housing in our community. He is applying pressure on the people who need homes. This policy is affecting the housing sector more than any other sector. 
If interest on a loan of $14,000 over 15 years is increased by % from  5%  to  5i%  the increased cost of that home is $711. If the loan is over a period of 25 years the increased cost is some $1,300. When one looks over the last 5 years, the period of which I am speaking, it can be seen that the interest rates of the Commonwealth Bank have changed from 4f % in 1964 to  61%  in April 1970, an increase of H%. On a loan of $15,000 over a period of 25 years the increased cost is some $3,760. This is the pressure that this Government is bringing to bear on the home buyer. The Treasurer said this morning at question time that he had no control over increases of interest rates, that this was the role of the Reserve Bank. Let us look at the attitude of the Treasurer, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  to the rural sector. They were able to ensure that no increased burden was placed on the farmer or the man on the land. I am not arguing against that; I think it is probably a sensible policy. But if they can give special consideration to the rural sector why can they not give special consideration to the home builder? There has been no appreciable increase in home building during the last 5 years. However there has been an increase in commercial office building. Let me quote some of the figures supplied to me by the Legislative Research Service of the Parlia mentary Library. In 1964-65 the amount expended on commercial building was $117.m. In 1965-66 it was $123m. The following year it was $11 8m and in 1967-68 it had increased to $149m. In 1968-69 there was an increase to $172m and in the first 9 months of this year there had been an expenditure on office buildings of something like $200m. It has increased in the last 5 years from $1. 17m to $200m which only represents 9 months of this financial year. 
This is the sector of the building industry that should be dealt with because the Treasurer knows that the insurance companies that were providing money for home building before the action of the Reserve Bank are now diverting that money to a sector where they receive a higher return on their investment. They are lending money to the commercial interests who are constructing office buildings. This is the action of this Government. I ask: Why has the Government not given special consideration to this aspect. If we look at the commencements - I use this term although the Treasurer always uses the term 'approvals' - we note that they are less in the March quarter of 1970 than they were in the March quarter of 1969. The figures are down by 100; there were 33,900 in March 1969 and there are now 33,800. In Western Australia it has been reduced from 4,600 to 3,600; in New South Wales it has decreased from 12,400 to 11,800. This is something the Treasurer should look at because there are builders now who cannot sell the homes that are already constructed 
 I ask the Prime Minister: Does his Government subscribe to a policy of freedom of association, or does it subscribe to a policy of guilt by association? Is he aware that over 200,000 people throughout Australia who were under considerable pressure against taking part did participate in demonstrations against Australia's involvement in the war in Vietnam and against conscription? Does he not realise that these demonstrations were very much the result of a conviction that the Government is contemptuous of the views of a substantial number of the Australian people? 
By way of interjection I told the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  that he had not read the Bill. I refer the honourable member to the control that the Reserve Bank of Australia will have over the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Sub-clause (5.) of clause 7 states: 
The Corporation may supplement its borrowings outside Australia by borrowing moneys within Australia but the total amount that may be borrowed by the Corporation within Australia in any period of twelve months ending on the thirtieth day of June shall not exceed such amount (if any) as is determined by the Reserve Bank of Australia in respect of that period. 
I have no further comment to make on the honourable member's speech except to say that it was a symptom of his negativeness, and the negativeness of other members of his Party, in respect of the control of foreign investment and the selling out of our national resources and our manufacturing industries. Over the years there has been a steady increase in agitation against uncontrolled and unplanned foreign investment in Australia. It would not be proper if we did not give credit to a great agitator in this Parliament - a man who for 20 years, from 1949 until 1969, continued to agitate against uncontrolled and unplanned foreign investment flowing into Australia. I refer to the former member for Scullin, Ted Peters. I hope that he is listening to the broadcast of this debate tonight because he will have seen just one step forward in providing control over this cancer, if I may use that term, that has been taking control of our country little by little every day of every year. 
In my maiden speech on 26th February 1959 1 expressed my concern about the growth of foreign investment in Australia and about the takeover of Australian national resources and industries. I drew attention also to the double taxation agreement. 1 have in fact raised for discussion matters of public importance over a number of years on this topic. On one occasion, on behalf of my Party, I sought, as a matter of urgency, through the discussion of a matter of public importance, to have an inquiry appointed into this matter. The matter that 1 raised for discussion on that occasion, 1 8th April 1967, was: 
The need in view of the increasing overseas control of commercial undertakings and key industries and the overseas takeover of natural resources, to appoint an all-party Parliamentary Committee to inquire into all aspects of overseas investment in Australia and how best it can be planned. 
There was nothing dogmatic about that proposition. We were asking for an inquiry to look into all aspects of foreign investment so that we could plan and control our future. But, at that time, the then Treasurer, the present Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  who, it is well known, has been a very strong opponent of the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  inside Cabinet, totally rejected that proposition. I am proud of my attitude on foreign investment policy. I am prepared to join with any honourable member in Australia on this matter. In fact, on 7th March 1965, I said something similar. 1 invite honourable members to read page 1 of 'The Highest Bidder', a book written by the late Brian Fitzpatrick and the man who is now a professor of economics at Sydney University, Professor E. L. Wheelwright. They quote my remarks. I said in part: 
We in the Australian Labor Party oppose indiscriminate foreign investment and wc have with us not only the Deputy Prime Minister- 
That is the Minister who has introduced this BDI: but also the financial editor of the 'Sydney Morning Herald", the financial writer for the Melbourne 'Herald',  Mr John  Eddy and  Mr Maxwell  Newton. 
A strange unity ticket existed, but we know that since that time differences have arisen between the  Deputy  Prime Minister and  Mr Maxwell  Newton.  Mr Newton  had been editor of the 'Australian Financial Review'. I went on to say: 
Let us keep in mind, too, that the most respectable of stockbrokers throughout Australia - men such as  Sir Ian  Potter and  Mr Staniforth  Ricketson - are aligned ... in opposing this indiscriminate inflow of foreign investment. 
I continue: 
As a socialist member of this Parliament 1 shall support any Australian including members of the Australian Country Party, or any other member on the Government side of the Parliament, who will oppose indiscriminate foreign investment as the  Deputy  Prime Minister does. 1 invite honourable members to examine the present position of the balance on current account during the period from 1st July 1950 to 30th June 1969. If we examine these figures we find that Australia had a deficit on current account of some $8,337m. This has been paid for, in the main, by the flow of unplanned and uncontrolled foreign investment in Australia. The honourable member for Lilley complained about fixed interest rates on certain investments. Yet, some private equity that has been invested in Australia - some of this $8,337m - is making up to 600% on original investment. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry in his second reading speech deals with this aspect and the relationship between loan money and equity capital. In this country, many foreign concerns take control of the whole sector of industry either by monopoly control or by oligarchy control. In this way a basic industry is controlled by 2 or 3 companies. The companies concerned by private arrangements fix their own prices. They set not only the prices of the merchandise that they sell to the Australian consumer but also the prices that will cover the cost of future development. This state of affairs has developed to such an extent that the equity in the pharmaceutical industry in Australia is 93% foreign controlled. In the petroleum refining and distributing industry, the equity held by foreign controlled companies is 96%. The figure is 95% for the motor vehicle manufacturing industry. Oil exploration and production is 85% foreign controlled. Telecommunications is 83% foreign controlled. 
The foreign controlled equity in the soap and detergent industry is 80%. In the bauxite and aluminium industry it is 75% while the figure for the chemicals industry is 60%. 1 turn next to food, of all things. The Country Party must be greatly concerned about this control. Foreign control equity in food production is 50%. The figure for lead, zinc and copper production is 45% to 50%. Further, 30% of heavy engineering is controlled by overseas companies. It is estimated that the equity of at least 33% of our manufacturing industry is owned by foreign investment. 
Is it any wonder that concern is felt over a wide section of the Australian community with regard to this foreign investment taking control of our industries and resources. 
I have here a table that shows the balance of payments on current account from the period 1950-51 to 1968-69. It also deals with imports, exports and invisibles. It shows not only the total amount involved but also the figures for the United Kingdom and the United States of America. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate this table in Hansard. It reads: 

<graphic href="067131197005143_86_0.jpg"></graphic>


 Mr Deputy Speaker, the figures in this table disclose that the overall deficit stands at $8, 337m. Examining the figures of the United Kingdom, we find that the balance of payments on current account is $5,995m. In respect of the United States of America the deficit on balance of payments on current account is $6,009m. These countries are our traditional partners. We find that, combining the figures for these 2 countries alone, the deficit figure is some $ 12,000m. But there has been an overall deficit of $8,337m. What this means is that we have had a credit of some $3, 668m with other countries such as Japan, mainland China - honourable members from the Country Party do not like to be reminded of the huge sales of wheat to Communist China - and the Eastern European bloc which also, if the trade figures are examined, disclose that, a favourable balance of trade exists there. 
The problem with this country is that it is becoming more deeply under foreign control, having to . rely more each year on foreign investment to balance the current account. I feel that this legislation is at least one step forward, after 20 long years. May 1 mention to the Minister for Trade and Industry that if he carries out his promise, his statement or his alleged statement that he will retire towards the end of this year, it is my hope that he will be appointed the Executive Chairman of the Australian Industry Development Corporation so that he will be able to keep it under firm control. No doubt, some white anting will occur once the Deputy Prime Minister retires from this House. I hope that the Deputy Prime Minister is appointed executive chairman. 
This legislation is to my mind the most progressive legislation in regard to economic powers since the amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Act of 1964, known as the 30/20 formula, whereby insurance companies were encouraged by taxation powers to invest in either government or semi-government concerns. I believe that this legislation follows this progressive principle. There has been very little progressive legislation on economic matters over the long period of 20 years of laissezfaire government by this Administration. The Australian Industry Development Corporation is not the solution to our prob lems in protecting Australian industries and our national resources, but it is a move in the right direction. 
In respect of the Minister for Trade and Industry I agree with the comments of  Mr Peter  Frankel in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 13th May. I believe that the Minister's second reading speech was a smokescreen. It was a smokescreen because of the division in the ranks behind the Minister for Trade and Industry, and it is my belief that there is a great division in the Liberal Party. There is great concern, not only amongst the backbenchers but also within the Cabinet itself. This is why I want the  Deputy  Prime Minister upon retirement to take over the executive chairmanship so that this legislation will have some teeth and sonic positive approach. He repeated all the rhetoric that he has used over the years as Leader of the Australian Country Party but never as  Deputy  Prime Minister. Over all these years he has been like a Jekyll and Hyde. Out in the countryside for the past 7 years he has been down on foreign investment and saying: T am against the increasing growth of foreign investment. I am against this unplanned flow.' But when we come into this House and we put up a proposition which he supported in the past he becomes the  Deputy  Prime Minister and follows Government policy. What he said in h:s first outburst when he was speaking at a Country Party conference in Victoria on 2nd April 1963 is worth repeating: 
We in this room are mostly established farmers. If we earn enough annual income we live comfortably. If we do not we could still live comfortably by selling a bit of the farm every year, and that is pretty much the Australian situation - we are not earning enough and we are selling a bit of our heritage every year. 
But how much of the farm has diminished since that time? What has been the loss of out heritage? 
Since 1963 our deficit on the balance of current account has been some $4,960m and for the 13 years prior to that it was S3,377m. Since the outburst of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and all the time that he has been in that position this uncontrolled and unplanned growth has been taking away more and more of our heritage each year. Let me return to  Mr Frankel's  letter. I remind the  Deputy  Prime Minister that  Mr Frankel  was a Liberal Party candidate at the last election.  Mr Frankel  said: 
Everything that  was  forecast by those who feared that this corporation might become  a  major controller of private enterprise has regrettably been confirmed. One must disregard the second reading speech because interpretations of the Bill as presented are of no value. 
In other words,  Mr Frankel  said: 'Well, with all due respect to the  Deputy  Prime Minister who introduced the Bill, do not worry about his second reading speech. What you want to do is look at the Bill,' and I suggest you do look at the fine print in the Bill because this is what  Mr Frankel  went on to say: 
One must rather look at the Bill in the context not of what it is supposed to achieve, but of what can be done with it and this presents a frightening picture. 
This is the dilemma not only of  Mr Frankel,  the Liberal, not only of the honourable member for Lilley, the Liberal, not only of the present Minister for External Affairs, the so-called Liberal, but also of so many other so-called Liberals on the back benches. This is their dilemma. lt is my view after discussion with eminent legal men that the Bill has been carefully drawn for the purposes of assisting the advancement of trade and commerce. The drafter has or drafters have maximised the use of constitutional power. They have used protective clauses so that we do not go beyond the constitutional power. We know that this Parliament is covered under section 51 of the Constitution as regards constitutional power. In fact, my legal advice is that the drafters were ingenious in their provisions to protect the Corporation against the legal challenge which I am quite sure will soon eventuate. The legislation cuts across - and let us be clear on this - the whole structure of conservative thought that has governed this Government for the past 20 years. It is a challenge to the establishment. Already the banks are attacking the proposed legislation. The chambers of commerce want it postponed. Division is rife in the Liberal Party ranks and the knives are out. These are some of the problems that confront this Government. 
There has been discussion about different aspects of the Minister's second reading speech, one of which is the outward flow of dividends. I want to deal with the out ward flow of dividends that has occurred over the past 6 years alone. The total amount in the last 6 years is S2,500m. That has been paid by foreign companies. Of that amount $l,386m has been sent overseas and the remainder has been reinvested within their establishments in this country to earn bigger and better profits. This outflow of dividends concerns the Minister. In his second reading speech the Minister dealt with takeovers. But one may ask what he has done in regard to takeovers. One may ask what he has done in regard to foreign control. Has there been any real incentive to prevent foreign control? Have there been any taxation concessions or taxation incentives - if one may use that term - as there have been in Canada, where a company with more than 30% Canadian shareholding is given certain taxation concessions as compared with a flat company taxation rate which is applied in Australia? This legislation does not deal in any way with laxation concessions, lt does not deal in any way with the problem of takeovers, Australian partnership or foreign control of companies, ft does not deal in any way with the matter of limited franchise. In his second reading speech the Minister referred to this matter by way of a smoke screen but what positive proposals do we have before us for dealing with restrictive franchises? Some foreign owned companies in Australia sell most of their products to Australian consumers but are restricted in their exports to certain countries. The parent company, whether it be in the United States or in Great Britain, exercises a control over the export activities of its companies operating in this country. Again, some Australian manufacturing companies enter into agreements with foreign companies for the manufacture under patent of certain goods in this country. This practice is growing, as I will show in a few moments. The Australian company which has the patent rights to manufacture an article may export only to a limited area. In 1951 payments remitted overseas for the use of foreign patents amounted to $3m, as they did in 1952 and 1953. In 1954 the amount was $9m. From that time there was a gradual upward trend in the amount of payments remitted overseas and in 1968 the figure reached $64m. In 1969 it was $63m. I ask the Minister what he has done about the loss of control over our mineral rights.. I remind him that men of such high standing as  Sir Harold  Raggatt, a former Secretary of the Department of National Development, was reported in the Australian' as far back as June 1965 to have said: 
We must not be a pawn to foreign capital. Australia needs a national minerals development policy and companies should be encouraged to process minerals before they are exported. Too great a foreign ownership of Australian mineral resources could mean a conflict of interests between Australia and the owners. The owners could take the understandable view 'that Australia was primarily a' source of raw materials. 
I know that the  Deputy  Prime Minister is concerned about this matter, but he is a member of the Government. He will retire from the Parliament towards the end of this year. Even in this legislation there is no real control over the matter referred to by  Sir Harold  Raggatt in 1965. What is being done about overall planning? What does the Government intend to do about creating a planning authority? What is being done to co-ordinate purchases by State and Federal governments? What is being done to determine their needs and to see that instead of buying overseas they buy from local sources? What has the Government done to encourage the Bureau of Mineral Resources in its exploration of Australia in the interests of Australians? There is no encouragement in this legislation for any of these matters that I mentioned. However, there are in it some question marks; if you read the Minister's second reading speech you will find all these matters raised but the legislation does , not contain a solution to any of them. It may be progressive legislation, but it is like a grain of sand in the desert. At least it is a grain, and I am grateful even for that grain. 
I could speak at great length on this subject because I feel deeply concerned. I have great respect for the Minister who is piloting this legislation through the House. On occasions he goes off the rails, as he did last week when he dragged out the old red bogey. I prefer the kind of remarks he made on the hustings in Western Australia, when he was trying to secure a swinging seat for a member of his Party. On that occasion - it was during the elections of 1966  -  he said that there was no difference between his policy and that of the Labor Party and he advised Labor voters to give their second preference votes to the Country Party candidate. Despite some shortcomings I regret that he is leaving the Parliament. I hope that he will accept the position of executive chairman of the new Corporation so that he may keep his eye on it while it gets things under way. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What percentage of successful applicants for a War Service Homes loan had to seek a second mortgage during each of the last 2 financial years. 
What was the average interest rale paid on those second mortgages during those same years. 
I do not want to labour this point but the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in his speech during the second reading debate on this Bill highlighted the fact that there was no control by the Reserve Bank over the Corporation. I do not know how any person with a commonsense understanding of clause 7 (5.) of the Bill could come to that conclusion. I followed the honourable member in the second reading debate. I pointed out this aspect and ( will read it to him again. 1 think the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  who is in charge of the Bill made it perfectly clear in reply that the Reserve Bank had complete control over this organisation. Clause 7 (5.) states: 
The Corporation may supplement its borrowings outside Australia by borrowing moneys within Australia but the total amount that may be borrowed by the Corporation within Australia in any period of twelve months ending on the thirtieth day of June shall not exceed such amount (if any) as is determined by the Reserve Bank of Australia in respect of that period. 
If the honourable member is not clear on the matter he has only to read clause 6 which will further clarify this aspect of the Reserve Bank's authority over this Corporation. 
The honourable member for Lilley is simply over emphasising the question of restraint. It is remarkable that this honourable gentleman, who is a member of the 
Liberal Party which is supposed to stand for liberal terms, should be so concerned about restraints and controls, lt is almost laughable that the honourable member should emphasise and re-emphasise the importance of the restraint that must be placed on this organisation. As I said in my speech on the second reading, I have great respect for the draftsmen of this legislation. I believe that the legislation will be as a grain of sand in the desert in dealing with the real problems that face Australia. But it is at least a grain of sand. 1 commend the Government for taking even that step. I think that the restraints that are being called for by the honourable member for Lilley are not necessary. That is why we on this side of the chamber are not going to become terribly upset about it and why we shall accept the amendment. 
The Opposition accepts the request for the amendment made by the Senate. I would like to give a brief outline of the history of this legislation. It was first introduced into this House on 5th March 1970, being part of an election promise. It was designed to increase from$1 5,000 to $17,500 the value of a home, including the value of the land, on which a loan may be made. Homes were becoming so expensive that the Government had to raise the maximum amount which would attract a loan to enable people to get any benefit from it. That is the only real value crf this legislation. As a smoke screen the Government set out in clause 5 certain proposals under which credit unions may become eligible to seek loans under the homes savings grant scheme. No negotiations were held with the credit union authorities, there was no discussion with the respective State governments, and there was no discussion between the Department of Housing and the Department of the Interior which controls credit unions in the Australian Capital Territory. Canberra has more public servants and a greater percentage of people who are members of credit unions than any other sector of Australia. The relevant ordinance for the ACT provides that no loan can bc made in excess of $2,000. Yet here we have an amendment that will reduce from $7,000 to $5,000 the minimum amount for a prescribed housing loan. I hope that the people who live in the Australian Capital Territory see the hypocrisy tff the Government in this regard. To put the legislation into perspective so that the Department of Housing would have sufficient time to discuss it with the State governments and other departments, the Opposition moved as an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill that the clause relating to credit unions should be redrafted to give credit union savings complete and unconditional recognition under the Act. That motion was defeated because the Government had the numbers. We explained that section 7 (d) of the New South Wales legislation covering credit unions permitted a maximum loan of $4,000. At that time this Government's proposal was for a minimum amount of $7,000. Now it is to be reduced to $5,000. 
Seventy per cent of the members of credit unions live in New South Wales. Even so that 70% are not brought under this clause of the Bill. Since the legislation was introduced in this House the New South Wales Minister who deals with credit unions has stated clearly and publicly that he will not increase credit union loans beyond $4,000 No further statement has been made to clarify that position. This provision for a minimum loan of $5,000 will prevent members of the credit unions from being included. As I said, 70% of the members of credit unions live in New South Wales. Some 307 credit unions exist in New South Wales, 234 of which have assets of less than $150,000. If honourable members look at clause 5 of the Bill they will see that the minimum amount in subsequent years that the credit unions must lend is $50,000. We tried to explain to honourable members opposite that the credit unions were not really geared for long term loans or to be forced into repaying them over a period of 12 years. 
In another place my Party moved that the minimum amount for a prescribed housing loan be reduced from $7,000 to $3,000 and that the repayment period be reduced from 12 years to 5 years, lt also proposed that the total amount required to be lent by credit unions to their members during the financial year be reduced from $50,000. The vote was 25 to 25, which nullified the proposition. If the Government had accepted our proposition it would have enabled many credit unions to be brought under this clause of the Bill. But it was refused. This legislation is a face saving device. The Government says that it is going to reduce the minimum amount of loan from $7,000 to $5,000. This still will not bring in the 70% of credit unions in New South Wales, unless there is an amendment to the New South Wales Act. I refer to page 1285 of Hansard of 16th April 1970. There set out are the assets of the credit unions of New South Wales. Of the 307 credit unions 234 have $150,000 or less in assets. 
The credit unions are not competing against the banks, which the Government is interested in protecting. It has practically forced people to go to a bank to become entitled to the special grant. People are not interested in that. These credit unions are in competition with the hire purchase companies. I gave as an example in the ear er debate 3 of the major hire purchase companies which are involved in providing loans for housing, land for housing, or alterations to homes. The Bank of New South Wales holds 42.8% equity in one of those hire purchase firms. The Bank of Scotland owns 30% of another of those hire purchase firms. The third of the firms that I mentioned is owned wholly by the Bank of Adelaide. 
The request which has been returned by the Senate with the Homes Savings Grant Bill is not fooling anybody. It is not fooling those members of credit unions in Canberra who would like to participate in this homes savings grant scheme. These credit unions cannot become involved in this scheme. Its members cannot benefit under it. This is because, under an ordinance, the Government has said that $2,000 is the maximum amount that may be provided as a secured loan for housing purposes by credit unions in the Australian Capital Territory. In fact, the amount available for such purposes on an unsecured loan is $800 only. So, I hope that in particular members of the credit union organisations study the hypocrisy of the Government after the long and patient negotiations that the credit un on movement has undertaken with the Government, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  and officials of the Department of Housing. 
1 rise again to speak because the Minister is sitting at the table and apparently he does not intend to answer any of the criticisms levelled by honourable members on this side. This astonishes me. I want to know, and members of credit unions throughout not only New South Wales but the length and breadth of Australia, and in particular in Canberra, want to know from, the Minister in the Committee stage why the Government is adopting this policy. Before this legislation was drafted why did nol the Minister or officers of the Department of Housing, or even the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  have some discussion with the credit union people? After the legislation was placed before the House on 5th March there were discussions but even then there seemed to be no compromise al all on the part of the Government. The Labor Party proposed a reduction in the amount of loan from $7,000 to $3,000, a reduction in the repayment period from 12 years to 5 years and a reduction in the amount of S50,000 required to be lent every year. There is a provision in the Bill that if they accept an applicant for a loan credit unions meet these requirements or be liable to a $500 fine. I make that remark only in pawing. 
I want to know from the Minister why the figure of $5,000 was set. 1 want to know why it was not reduced at least to $4,000 so as to give an opportunity to some credit unions in New South Wales to come within the provisions of the Bill. Why has the Government continued to force them to make long-term loans over a period of 12 years when they have not th" apparatus for th:s purpose. I want to know from the Minister why the Government insists on the figure of $50,000. 
There is no understanding of what a credit union is. What is a credit union? Members of a credit union have a personal association which brings them together and into contact with one another and which gives each member a strong sense of responsibility to the entire group. They can be employees of an organisation, members of the same church, union or lodge, or residents of a well-defined community area. They are a co-operative and collective group, and they should be encouraged by this legislation and other Commonwealth legislation, but there is no encouragement under this legislation. 
The other matter concerns conditions which I regard as stringent conditions. One of the conditions that has not yet been mentioned is that the loans must be made at an effective rate of interest of not more than 74% per annum on a reducing balance basis. This legislation will compel credit unions to make loans at not more than 74%, yet the Commonwealth bond rate at present is 7%. The Minister said that the rate must be not more than 74%' per annum. We must clearly understand that the credit unions are not in competition with the banks. They are in competition with the fringe institutions and, as I pointed out earlier, the major shareholders of the fringe institutions are the banks themselves. One of the major institutions which enters into the financing of housing, land and alteration of homes, is wholly owned by the Bank of Adelaide. The Bank of New South Wales has a 42.89% interest in such an institution. If one looks at the interest rates of the fringe institutions with which the credit unions are in competition 'one will see that they are 19% to 20%. At no time do credit unions charge a high interest rate. In fact it cos!s them 5% to 6% for their money. Yet they are forced to make loans at not more than 74%. 
All we want to do is to allow these cooperative and collective groups who want to help their fellow beings to have the opportunity at least to share in the homes savings grant of $500. I might say in passing that the interest rate of the Commonwealth Savings Bank has increased, by 14% during the period June 1964 to April 1970 and on a $15,000 loan the interest is $3,700 more. This docs not come within this section of the Bill and I want to keep my criticisms at this time to this section alone. 1 hope that I first see the Minister and then that 1 hear his voice, if he has any voice or any positive thoughts on this matter. I want to know why his Government maintains these stringent conditions. Why has it reduced the amount only from $7,000 to $5,000? Why did it not reduce the 12-year repayment term to 5 years? Why does it insist on credit unions having to spend at least $50,000? Some of these small credit unions are groups of people in a firm, a church or a union and in some cases they make available more money for housing per member than do many of the larger credit unions. But there is no consideration whatsoever of what the credit unions do. I will outline some of the assistance which credit unions give. They make money available to their members for the purchase of a block of land. They make money available to cover a second mortgage. They make money available for alterations. These are the major tasks of credit unions. They do not . have the financial backing to make long term loans. The Government knows this. The Government represents the great banking and financial monopolies. It is not concerned with people. It is not interested in helping the credit unions. It is not interested in helping the small person. It represents only the wealthy sector of the community. It stands by the wealthy sector of the community and will not give the credit unions a fair go. The Government knows that if it were to help the credit unions the banks would put the brakes on, as they did with regard to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
What was the length of service of each of the twenty-one members of the armed services who were arrested in Adelaide during the moratorium demonstration. 
How many of these servicemen had served or seen action in Vietnam. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it proposed to establish a new airport for Canberra; if so, where is it to be situated. 
If a decision has not yet been made, when is a decision expected and when will details of the proposal be made available. . 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say how many railway level crossings there are in each of the State capitals and the major provincial cities. 
Has an estimate ever been made of the cost of man hours lost due to traffic delays at these crossings. 
Has there been any study of the increase in air pollution created by motor and truck exhaust fumes while traffic waits for trains to have the right of way. 
What is the estimated cost of eliminating these level crossings. 
asked the Minister for Shipping  and Transport, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads exercise any control over the funds given to the States under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. 
Does the Bureau tender advice to State highway authorities on the likely effects of road investment decisions. 
If so, what advice was given on the effects of the proposed extension of the Warringah Expressway in Sydney. 
Does the Bureau encourage State road authorities to heed advice of the appropriate State planning authorities so that investment in roads will be co-ordinated with those of other authorities and lead to the orderly development of out cities. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his Department made an analysis of costs of the operation of compulsory third party insurance schemes in operation in Australia which would show (a) administration costs, (b) legal costs, (c) hospital and medical costs, (d) compensation paid to victimsof accidents caused by motor vehicles and (c) payments made to accident victims fortime off work. 
Can he say in respect of the last financial year how many persons received compensation payments, either in a lump sum or by way of weekly payments. 
How many of those persons who made claims failed to receive any compensation. 
Has there been any investigation madeto determine the average waiting period for payment or settlement of claims after an accident. 
If he has insufficient information to supply answers to these questions will he undertake to set up a commission of inanity to examine all aspectsof compensation for road accidents. 
I rise to support the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who has raised as a matter of public importance the need for the Commonwealth to assist the finances and functions of semi-government and local government authorties. We have just heard the reply by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  on behalf of the Government. When one listens to the comments made by the Treasurer one realises how completely out of touch he is with the people. Anyone who works closely with local or semi-government bodies knows that they are in a state of stagnation. The States are in revolt. At the recent Liberal Party convention they defeated the Prime Minister and he had to make a backward step. But we are dealing not only with the Gorton Administration, we are dealing also with a government that has been in office for 2 decades. We are complaining about the stagnation and the chaos that has been created by the Commonwealth starving the States, the local government and semi-government authorities. 
The Leader of the Opposition has dealt with the chaotic condition of Commonwealth and State financial relations. He gave as an example the growth of the internal debt of the States and the reduction of the Commonwealth's debt during the same period. Since 1947 the State debt has been increased fourfold, the debt of local authorities tenfold and the debt of semigovernment authorities by 12i times. These are the figures that concern the States, local government and semi-government authorities. The cost of interest repayment during the last 12 years- from 1954-55 to 1966-67 - is worth noting. In 1954-55 the Commonwealth paid in interest SI 17m. This has increased to Si 29m a year. During that period Commonwealth revenue increased from $2,1 14m to $5,7 15m. The increase in internal interest repayments was only SI 2m whilst Commonwealth revenue increased by $3600m. During this period, the interest burden of the States increased from SI 34m to $379m, the interest burden of semi-government authorities increased from $67m to $243m and the interest burden of local government authorities increased from SI 4m to $67 m. 
During the 2 decades that the conservative administrations have governed - or misgoverned - this country, chaos has grown. The Commonwealth continuously has starved the States and semi-governmental and local government authorities of finance, lt has at no time been prepared to cooperate and co-ordinate, on a planned basis, all levels of government. 1 stress that the Commonwealth has not co-operated and coordinated to plan all levels of government. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out, there is no difference between ratepayers of local government bodies and taxpayers of the Commonwealth. We arc the same citizens at all levels of government and until such time as the Commonwealth provides leadership there can be no positive policy. During these 2 decades chaos has continued to grow in specific sectors of our community - in education, housing, roads, health and hospitalisation. But nothing has been so chaotic as the situation in our capital and provincial cities where 80% of our population resides. It is possibe to give only a rough estimate of the cost of cleaning up the urban environment because it is difficult to find proper statistics. It is estimated that the cost of installing sewerage to areas of Sydney and Melbourne that lack it would be about S600m. This is without any kind of treatment of sewage. The introduction of primary treatment of sewage in Sydney and Melbourne alone would cost another $lOOm. 
We are now in the 1970s and people are demanding an answer to the chaos of urban living. No longer will they accept growing pollution, including noise and smell, and the destruction of our environment. In every capital city the expense of continually upgrading network services such as roads, water supplies, sewerage, telecommunications and public transport is enormous. I speak personally of Sydney, the city where I reside.  Her  industries have polluted her air and stagnated her beautiful waterways. Some of the most magnificent beaches in the world will not, by the turn of the century, be fit for our growing population to enjoy. This will be caused, to a great extent, by man's stupidity and by the starving of the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board, the authority responsible, by the Commonwealth Government of finance that is necessary to solve this urgent problem. 
I want to deal with the pollution problem that is confronting Sydney's waterways and beaches. This is pollution caused by sewage from domestic and industrial outflows. I say at the outset that Sydney's problems can be repeated in every capital and provincial city in Australia. The problems cannot be solved by loan moneys. It is my view, and 1 believe my Party's attitude, that it will be necessary to solve this problem financially by grants under section 96 of the Constitution. I believe also that it will be necessary to draw on the best scientific knowledge that is available. The Commonwealth should be a partner of the States in solving the pollution problems of our cities. It should not pass the buck to the States. Together, in co-operation, we should work at all levels of government to conquer the problems. We cannot, in the 1970s, continue to place the burden on the State governments and local authorities, During the next 5 years the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board proposes to expend $65m on waste water treatment works.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with the concurrence of the House I incorporate in Hansard a table showing the 5-year programme of expenditure by the Board. I have the consent of the Treasurer to this inclusion in Hansard. 

<graphic href="068131197006095_21_1.jpg"></graphic>

An examination of. the table shows that of the 6 treatment works proposed the 2-major undertakings will be at Malabar, at a cost of $32m. and North Head, at a cost of $20m. Both projects will not be completed by 1973-74. lt should be noted, too, that the Board will be faced with a deficit of $ 1 6.59m by 1975-76. Extra loan moneys will have to be allocated to the Board. I point out that these estimates do not include provision for a proposed submarine outlet to be extended some 7 miles out to sea. This would cost a further $25m to $30m. These estimates of the Water Board give the cost of only discharging sewage into the ocean off Sydney. 
There has been much argument by experts about the rights and wrongs of discharging sewage into the ocean and I believe that there should be a complete examination of Sydney's unique position where there are magnificent beaches stretching for 20 miles south and north of the harbour entrance. These beaches should be protected no matter what the cost. They can be saved only with the Commonwealth's co-operation and with its provision of finance and technical skills. Other alternatives could be examined. For example,  Dr 
Mullins, who lectures on environmental studies at the New South Wales Institute of Technology, has given details of a proposed alternative sewerage scheme for Sydney. Sydney sprawls over 800 square miles, lt slopes down to the sea from a point near the Prospect Reservoir, which is about 24 miles inland. There could be located at intervals small processing stations along the line draining to the sea. In this way sewage from an inland area would be processed and the recycled water fed into a gravity system carrying it to areas nearer the sea and thus downhill. This would save substantial costs in pumping recycled water back from the large sea level outfalls. Reclaimed water could be used to supply water to industry. At present one-third of the water in ali Australian cities goes to industry. These are some of the proposals that could be undertaken with the cooperation of the Commonwealth. 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question, ls it a fact that the Liberal Party's Federal Council has attacked the Federal Government over high interest rates imposed on home owners? ls it also a fact that as a remedy the Council proposes that interest on first mortgage housing loans up to SI 2,000 be allowed as a tax deduction? Is he not aware that so far as tax deduction benefits are concerned, the bigger the income the bigger the benefit? Has there been any estimate of the cost of the proposal? If not will he give an undertaking that there will be such an investigation? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Can he say what are the existing laws within each State and Commonwealth Territory which control pollution of our (a) atmosphere, (b) waterways and (c) countryside? 
If so, what is in each State and Territory the maximum penalty under existing Acts imposed on (a) an individual and (b) a company for violating pollution provisions. 
Can he give details of prosecutions launched in each of the last 5 years in each State and Commonwealth Territory? 
Has the Government considered the adequacy of existing laws; if so, with what result? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has there been any discussion between the Government and! the State Government of New South Wales on the future growth of Canberra. 
If so, what proposals have been made by the Commonwealth Government to prevent ribbon development on highways leading to Canberra. 
Is it a fact that, unless there is agreement to prevent this ribbon development the future growth of Canberra will be prejudiced. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many persons under 35 years of age were married in each year during the past 6 years. 
What is the estimate of the number of marriages of persons under this age which will occur each year during the next 5 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Is he able to say what total amount was loaned by fringe banking institutions, e.g. hire purchase companies, for the purchase of land or the construction or purchase of houses in each of the past 10 years. 
What was the n,ling rate of interest charged by these institutions on loans made by them for house purchases, etc., during each of the past 10 years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the (a) prevailing interest rate paid to depositors, (b) number of depositors and (c) the total amount of deposits in the Commonwealth Savings Bank where the amount of the bank deposit is (i) less than $4,000 and (ii) more than $4,000. 
What is the (a) prevailing interest rate paid to depositors, (b) number of depositors and (c) the total amount of deposits in the private savings banks where the amount of the bank deposit is (0 less than $4,000 and (ii) more than $4,000. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution recommend that a Division of Air Pollution be established within the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization. 
If so, what steps have been taken to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Did the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution recommend that the Bureau of Meteorology establish a national network of monitoring stations lo collect data specifically for air pollution needs. 
If so, what steps have been taken to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has his Department made any estimate of the cost of overcoming the problem of pollution in the Sydney area, in particular, in the Parramatta River-Duck Creek complex, the Lane Cove River, the Georges River and Cooks River areas, and also in the industrial areas of Camellia, Silverwater, Clyde and Ermington affected by air pollution. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say how many persons are at present repaying a housing mortgage. 
if so, 
what was the average amount for which the mortgages were taken out, 
what is the total amount outstanding at the present time in respect of these mortgages and 
how are these mortgages distributed amongst the various lending authorities or institutions. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the (a) interest rate and (b) maximum sum available for a housing loan obtained from the Commonwealth Savings .Bank as at 1 July 1949. 
What are the relevant figures at the present time. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Savings Bank has increased its maximum housing loan from $8,000 to $12,000 
If so, when and why was this decision made. 
What is the prevailing interest rate on this type of loan. 
I desire to acid my tribute to  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes. 1 had an unusual relationship with  Sir Wilfrid.  I first saw him in September 1945 in Manila in a prisoner of war transit camp, and 1 will never forget the impressive, striking appearance of this man with a chest of ribbons. 1 did not meet him again until 1958 when I entered this Parliament. We had a wide divergence of political views and our solutions to problems were not always the same but there was a certain kindness he always showed to me personally. In a way he seemed to tend to protect me when I appeared to be in difficulties. We travelled together to represent this Parliament in April 1.968 at a War Graves Commission ceremony in Ambon, Indonesia, where a great number of our comrades were buried. 1 always found that the men who knew him during the War respected him and had a great feeling for him. He showed kindness in his personal relationships with honourable members on the Opposition side - I know he had close friends on this side of the House - in circumstances where, for instance, their wives were ill. There was always a special kindness about Bill Kent Hughes. This is a strange thing about the Parliament. No matter how wide one's political point of view may be, no matter how much we can disagree even on the solutions of our problems, there are some things on which we can come together. I want to pay tribute to the kindness Bill Kent Hughes showed me in a personal approach to life and i wish to extend my sympathies to Lady Kern Hughes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he noted the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution that, in view of the special importance of emissions from motor vehicles in the overall air pollution problem, urgent consideration should be given by the appropriate Commonwealth and State authorities to ways and means of bringing about the abatement and eventual control of those vehicle emissions which contribute to pollution of the air. 
If so, what action has been taken oi is proposed on Ibis matter. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution last recommend the enactment of legislation for the control of air pollution within Commonwealth Territories. 
If so, what steps have been to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution recommend that the Commonwealth initiate discussions with the States to establish a Joint Bureau of Air Pollution. 
If so, what action has been taken to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Government any plans to deal in a positive way with the disposal of industrial waste. 
If not, has his Department made any inquiries in relation to the problem or have there been any discussions with the respective State authorities. 
If discussions have been held with State authorities, what was the outcome of those discussions. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the cost to his Department of installing a telephone service in a private dwelling in (a) Sydney, (b) Melbourne, (c) Brisbane, (d) Adelaide, (e) Perth, (f) Hobart and (g) Canberra. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What land has been acquired and what estate development has been undertaken by the War Service Homes Division since July 1950. 
What was the dale of each acquisition. 
How many allotments were in each acquisition. 
What was the average cost of each allotment after subdivision in each particular purchase. 
What was the average profit made by the Division on each acquisition. 
What was the location ofthe land acquired in each case. 
Was any special power necessary to acquire the land for estate development; if so, what authority was used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Is he able to say (a) what percentage of borrowers who obtained a housing loan from savings banks had to seek a second mortgage and (b) what average rate  of  interest was paid by the borrowers on the second mortgages during each of the last 2 financial years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Is the Minister able to say if there has been an increase in the interest rate of the terminating building societies in New South Wales. 
If so, what is the increase. 
Does the increased interest rate involve those persons who negotiated a loan prior to April 1970. 
If so, bow many persons are involved. 
Is the increase to be repaid by increased monthly repayments; if so, can he say what will be the average increase per month in the repayments. 
If the effect of the increased interest rate is to lengthen the period of repayment, can he say what this extended period will be and what will be the average increase in the total amount of repayments which will have to be met by borrowers in these societies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What is the maximum loan available to a person seeking to (a) construct a new dwelling, (b) purchase a new home already constructed and (c) purchase a dwelling more than five years old from (i) Commonwealth and private trading banks, (ii) Commonwealth and private savings banks, (iii) State banks, (iv) permanent building societies and (v) insurance companies. 
What is the prevailing interest rate in each case. 
What was the prevailing interest rate in each case in July1950. 
asked the Minister for Immigra  tion, upon notice: 
How many immigrant families, consisting of man and wife or man, wife and family, arrived in Australia during each oft he past five years; 
How many family units are expected to arrive each year for the next 5 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Is the Minister able to say if there has been an increase in the interest rate of the permanent building societies in New South Wales. 
If so, what is the increase. 
Does the increased interest rate involve those persons who negotiated a loan prior to April 1970. 
If so, how many persons are involved. 
Is the increase to be repaid by increased monthly repayments; if so, can he say what will be the average increase per month in the repayments. 
If the effect of the increased interest rate is to lengthen the period of repayment, can he say what this extended period will be and what will be the average increase in the total amount of repayments which will have to be met by borrowers in these societies. 
If a borrower obtains a loan of $12,000 to be repaid over a period of 25 years, what will be the increased interest to a borrower in repayments per month. 
askedthe Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Did certain evidence given to the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution claim that the use of liquid propane gas would significantly reduce air pollution caused by internal combustion engines, one of the main sources of air pollution. 
Did (he Senate Committee recommend that the use of liquid propane gas should he examined. 
If so, has his Department tested the use of this gas. 
If tests have been carried out, what was the result. 
My only comment on the speech of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  is that the Government is so barren of ideas on housing and urban living that there was only a slight mention of housing in the Budget speech, even though the home building sector of the building industry is in a chaotic condition. There was no mention in the Budget Speech of urban life or of pollution associated with the urban environment. 
I support the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I have pleasure in supporting him and following him. There are many reasons I could give for supporting this motion, but time will permit me to deal with only a few aspects. A few of the aspects are, firstly, the interest burden on the young married couple seeking a home - also the family group, which is continuously having its interest burden increased; secondly, the cost of a home and land and the inadequate loans that are available; thirdly, spiralling land costs; fourthly, the inadequacy of the low cost housing provided by State Government authorities; and, fifthly, the fact that it is almost impossible because of finance difficulty for a young couple seeking to construct or purchase a dwelling to do so. 
Let me give briefly some details of the low cost housing constructed by the State Housing Commission and the moneys made available under the StateCommonwealth Housing Agreement. In 1945 the Chifley Labor Government provided the States with 53-year loans for housing for people on low incomes. These loans bore an interest rate of 3%. The Commonwealth Government at that time agreed to meet three-fifths of the cost of rent rebates, which was designed to ensure that no low income family would be required to pay more than one-fifth of its income for a government home. There has been a gradual erosion of this monument of social justice to the not so fortunate in our community. The present staggering interest burden placed on dwellings constructed by the State housing authorities is at a rate of 6%. Just imagine: The rate of 3% under the Chifley administration has increased to 6% under this Gorton administration - or should 1 say maladministration. The number of dwellings constructed has diminished each year. From a peak of 17,900 dwellings constructed in 1954-55 the number diminished to 12,300 in 1968-69. So that from 1954-55, when the State housing authorities constructed 22% of all dwellings constructed in that year there has been a decrease in low cost housing to only 9.7% of dwelling construction in 1968-69. In other words, the public sector of the building industry is getting into greater and greater squalor. But one must question whether one can even describe it as low cost housing. 
Let us examine the example of a home, including land and dwelling, which costs $12,000. The average cost of a block of land and a house is $14,000 throughout Australia. If one were to rent a home and land costing $12,000 from the State Housing Commission with an interest burden of 6% , the weekly cost in interest alone would be $13. On top of that there would be maintenance costs, depreciation, rates and taxes and the amount necessary to be put aside to pay off the capital cost of the dwelling. How can such housing be described as low cost bousing? We need an inquiry to examine the stupidity of the Federal Government and its exploitation of the States with this heavy interest burden. It is a weapon that is destroying our people who need assistance, guidance and encouragement. We need to give them social security from this urban drought - the drought in the cities that drags them down. This Government is not assisting and encouraging them to face their insecure world. We need an inquiry, because they need a new deal and we should begin again. We should return to the Chifley era. We need a cheap money policy for low cost housing. If the rural sector has a case for special consideration, then people living in a social drought in the urban areas need special consideration. 
I turn now to the ever-increasing interest burden on housing. The Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia,  Mr J.  G. Phillips, said recently that in the course of its contacts with savings banks, trading banks and life insurance offices, the Reserve Bank had asked these institutions to maintain and, in the case of savings banks. to extend and increase the volume of their housing loans in the coming months. 1 ask the House rationally: Can young people benefit from such action? Last April, due to the action of the Reserve Bank, interest rates were forced up. The interest on a loan from a savings bank to purchase a home was increased to 61% for the first $8,000, and in certain circumstances a second mortgage of $4,000 at 84% interest was available from the trading banks to bring the loan up to $12,000. But a purchaser of a home has to find another $2,000 to $3,000 to close the deposit gap, because the average home costs approximately $14,000 to $15,000. 
The repayments on a loan which is to be repaid over 15 years would be $127.85 a month for the first 8 years and $70.79 a month for the remainder of the period. The repayments on a loan to be repaid over 25 years would be $112 a month for the first 8 years and $55.27 a month for the remaining 17 years. The repayments on a loan of $12,000 from a permanent building society, to be repaid over 15 years, would be $116.42 a month, and if it is to be repaid over 25 years the repayments would be $94.62 a month. It seems to me that it is putting young people into an impossible position. If the lending authorities require the mortgage repayments not to exceed 25% of the earnings of the male earner, a person who wanted to obtain a bank loan and repay it over 25 years would have to earn at least $110 a week. If he were to obtain a loan of $12,000 from a permanent building society, to be repaid over 25 years, he would have to earn $94 a week. If the loan was to be repaid over 15 years, the burden would be much greater. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table setting out the relevent figures. 

<graphic href="069131197008215_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

What is the solution? We need an inquiry into all sectors of housing. The interest burden continues to grow. Interest on Commonwealth Bank loans has risen from 3i% to  6i%  in 2 decades. Interest on second mortagage loans has increased to 8J%. Interest on premanent building society loans has increased to 8i%. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has suggested that a 2% housing subsidy be granted  to  every young married couple in the first 10 years of marriage. On a loan of $12,000 repayable over 25 years this would mean a benefit of $352 in the first year of the loan. On a loan repaid over 25 years it would mean a savings in interest repayments of $4,635 over the life of the loan. This proposal could assist young married couples. On the other hand, the subsidy could be extended to help the family groups who 5 or 10 years ago entered into housing agreements and who now find their interest burden, with the encouragement of the Government, continuing to rise. 
An examination of the present estimated value crf home loans outstanding to all lending authorities shows a total amount outstanding of $6, 129m. If one excludes home loans outstanding on war service homes amounting to $900m with interest at  3i%  and to State housing authorities amounting to $700m with interest at about 5%, the value of outstanding home loans is $4,529m. If one applies an average interest rate of 7%, the interest burden per year would be $317m. If  Mr Whitlam's  subsidy of 2% were extended, it would reduce the interest burden to $226m per year. Therefore, it would cost $91m to finance the proposal. It may be necessary to consider a means test both on the cost of land and dwellings and also personal income. Such an inquiry could examine this proposal. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Treasurer, to whom I direct my question, will recall that last April his attention was drawn to the fact that there had been a decrease in the commencement of dwellings in the quarter ended March 1970 compared with the corresponding period in 1969, and that the decision of the Reserve Bank of Australia to increase interest rates would place a great hardship on the home building sector of the building industry. Has the Treasurer examined the latest details, released yesterday, which reveal that building approvals for all types of dwellings in July were 27% lower than for the corresponding period last year? Does the Treasurer agree that although the Reserve Bank has given instructions to the savings banks to release more finance for home building, due to the high interest burden of present building loans the overwhelming majority of young people seeking loans are now unable to meet the cost of loan repayments? Will  the  Treasurer give an assurance that special consideration will be given to reducing interest rates and making bigger loans available so that young married couples will be able to obtain a loan within their economic circumstances? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has the National Capital Development Commission approved of the Canberra General Concept Plan prepared for it in 1967 by Alan M. Voorhees and Associates. 
Is the proposed extension of the Defence complex into Campbell Park in accordance with the plan. 
Why were the extensions of the Defence complex of offices not planned in the Belconnen Valley where most of those to be employed in the complex reside. 
Will he provide an  estimate of the cost ot  upgrading roads and hydraulic services to service these proposed extensions, and will he indicate what effect the development of a major employment centre, at  a  location where none was intended, will have on the traffic pattern of the area. 
asked the  Minister for  Immigration, upon  notice: 
Can he state what is the estimated additional cost which each additional migrant imposes on State, semi-government and local government instrumentalities for the provision of (a) water supply, (b) sewerage and drainage, (c) road, (d) education, (e) health and (f) welfare services in each major urban area in Australia. 
Can he provide details of Commonwealth assistance to State, semi-government and local government authorities to compensate them for the burden imposed by the Commonwealth Government's immigration programme. 
The arrogance of this Government, particularly the Executive, with only a couple of hours of debate remaining before a vote is taken on the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  is shown by its adjourning the Budget debate so that a statement, for which we have been waiting years, could be made. It had to wait only a few minutes or extend a few courtesies and it could have avoided interrupting this debate. One can ask why the Opposition allowed the Government to make the statement. The Government is so arrogant that if the Opposition had not given it the right to make the statement it would have made it outside by way of a Press statement. This Executive treats the Parliament as a rubber stamp and it is about time honourable members on both sides of the House stood up to the arrogance of the Executive. The right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  who preceded me expressed some concern about the question of arbitration. He harped on the theme of getting back to arbitration. I have no doubt he also wants to get back the penal provisions. The question that he and other Government members should examine is why over such a wide spectrum, from airline pilots to garbage men, people with diverse ways of life are striking for economic justice. The right honourable member for Fisher who has been either a supporter of the Government, a member of the Ministry or a member of the Cabinet could not help but cry buckets of tears the whole time he was talking about conditions in this country. He also complained that his distinguished nephew, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  the black sheep of the family, had not spoken in this debate. The honourable member for Dawson is on the list of speakers and is the next  speaker  from this side of the House. I have no doubt he will supply some of the answers to the rural problems of this country and maybe show some of the progressive ways in which at least one member of the family can solve these problems. 
This Budget is a sectional Budget because it gives direct relief of over S300 per year in income tax to members of this Parliament - and in some cases much more - and to those persons who have equivalent incomes in industry and commerce, and on the other hand gives only $26 a year to the pensioners. The pensioners comprise one of the most needy sectors of our community. The family group with lower incomes and wilh children to rear has been treated even worse mainly because of the great burden placed on them by this Budget through indirect taxation. This is a sectional Budget because it treats all companies making  profits in  excess of $10,000 a year in the same way. It has increased company taxation by 2.5c in $1, increasing the taxation levied on public companies to 47.5c in the $1 and that levied on private companies to 42.5c in the $1. The Budget does not vary the rate of company taxation on the first $10,000 a year. The Treasurer and this sectional Government have in no way considered the enormous profits of a handful of companies, the monopoly or oligopoly sector of our community. To understand the extent of monopoly control of companies in this country, the control over industry and commerce, I draw the attention of honourable members to a table which has been prepared. With the concurrence of honourable members J incorporate in Hansard this table which has been compiled by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. 

<graphic href="069131197009033_42_14.jpg"></graphic>

An examination discloses that there are 76.000 private and public companies which made a profit in the last financial year of $3, 1 00m. The top profit makers, 198 companies comprising 0.26 per cent of the total, made 36.64 per cent of the total company profit of $3, 100m. The top 1.27 per cent of companies accounted for 57 per cent of the total profit of companies and the remaining 99 per cent of companies shared the other 43 per cent of the total profit. As with people, so with companies. The Government did not tax according to wealth. It is a sectional Budget as it is a sectional Government and it is a continuation of an attitude of this Government year after year. It is a sectional Budget because it gives little or no consideration lo urban or living areas. 
There is nothing in this Budget to indicate that the Commonwealth will act independently or even in co-operation wilh the States to stem the urban drought of our cities. No mention was made of any proposed implementation of the findings of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution or any proposed action on the recommendations of the Senate Select Committete on Water Pollution. No mention was made of Commonwealth involvement or assistance in the chaotic conditions of our capital and provincial cities. How long must we wait for the Commonwealth Government to do something about the urban drought? How long will it be before we hear some proposals? Action must be taken by the Commonwealth to assist in curbing, controlling and rectifying the drought and stagnation of our cities. There is the problem of unsewered areas, and those areas that are sewered add to the pollution of our beaches and our waterways. The State governments cannot cope with the urban drought of our cities. They need the urgent help, assistance and cooperation of the Commonwealth. If air pollution in our cities is to be controlled it is the Commonwealth which must act. Automobiles are responsible for 60 per cent of the air pollution in our cities. Scientific evidence and experience is available. We should learn from the historic mistakes of the United States of America and countries of the northern hemisphere. I hope to deal in a more detailed manner during the Estimates debate with the problems confronting urban living problems such as pollution, the lack of planning and the destruction of our environment. lt is a sectional Budget because it gives no consideration to the young people, particularly those about to marry or those married couples who are living with their families and are just beginning or wanting to start a life of their own. Their plans have been gradually eroded year after year until last April when the final smashing blow was struck by this Government in the form of the snide sleight of hand use of the monetary policy of the Reserve Bank. No special consideration such as was given to rural interests, was given to the home building sector of the building industry. 
This Budget has failed to rectify the position or even turn back the clock to last April. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has betrayed those who saw some hope for planning and stability in the home building section of the building industry. If one searches the 
Treasurer's Budget Speech where can one find a glimmer of hope for a return to the views he expressed in his speech on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) in September 1965 when he was Minister for Housing. He said then: 
The task of our monetary authorities in keeping the economy on an even keel so that orderly and rapid expansion of the Australian economy can proceed without interruption is one of extraordinary complexity and difficulty. It is subject to so many forces beyond prediction or even domestic control that it requires skill, experience and judgment of the highest order. In such circumstances it is natural that in the past housing has been regarded as one piece of an economic jigsaw puzzle rather than as something of supreme national importance in itself. 
That was the Treasurer speaking 5 years ago when he was the Minister for Housing. He went on to say: 
However, the deficiency in using housing to dampen demand is that it impedes the achievement of some of our most fundamental national objectives. 
That was our present Treasurer. What did he do within the first few months of taking over his present office. He used the same blunt instrument and bludgeoned a mortal blow to the home building sector of the housing industry. Even though he had been warned by spokesmen of the building industry that there had been a downward turn in commencements of new dwellings he would take no heed and would give no special consideration to the home building sector, although with pressure from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  he had discussions with the Reserve Bank and a special formula was found for the rural sector. Why not find a formula for the urban sector where 80 per cent of the population live? 
I warned him, and during question time on 6th May 1970, as recorded in Hansard at page 1670, 1 asked: 
Is the Treasurer aware that the Master Builders' Federation is concerned at the difficulty of obtaining finance for homes already constructed or under construction and that the number of houses and flats commenced for the quarter ended March 1970 was lower than in the corresponding period in 1969? Is it a fact that the recent increase in interest rates and the credit squeeze divert money from lower profit bousing to higher profit investment? Will the Treasurer say whether he will work out ways of redressing the balance in the flow of money in favour of housing or otherwise provide assistance to make up for this diversion of funds. 
He refused to answer my question. He refused to heed my warning  or  the warning of the representatives of the home building sector of the building industry, the Master Builders Association. I thought: Is this man so dull or is he ill informed? Is he just being a 'yes man* or being manipulated by the Treasury? I thought: How can one compare what he said in 1965 when he was Minister for Housing with his attitude now? 
In his September 1965 speech he went on to say:   . . We live in a fully employed economy without any appreciable reservoir of labour and resources which are not already actively employed. However, we do know now from practical experience that we already have the labour and resources to construct upwards of 110,000 dwelling units per annum without undue strain on the rest of the economy. 
He knew that 1 10,000 dwelling units could be constructed in 1964-65 'without undue strain on the rest of the economy'. Even though spokesmen from the building industry last April and even before April had given proof that there was no strain on men and materials in the home building sector of the building industry in 1970, he proceeded to place the crunch on the home building sector, contrary to the views he expressed in September 1965. The action of the Reserve Bank insofar as the home building sector was concerned was disastrous. 
The Treasurer refused to heed my warning during question time in the House of Representatives on 6th May 1970, to which I have referred. The most junior clerk in the Department of the Treasury should have been able to note the increase in approvals of commercial buildings - in particular, offices - which had increased from $172m in 1968-69 to over S200m for the first 9 months of 1969-70. That was in part the basis of my question of 6th May. The figure is now available for the full year 1969-70 for commercial office buildings. It is $294m, an increase of 7l per cent on the previous year. The fact is that when the credit squeeze hit, money was being diverted from the insurance companies and the big monopoly concerns to the commercial building sector where they could easily pass on the increased interest rates which they could not pass on to the home building sector. In the home building sector building approvals for new private houses and flats were 27 per cent lower in July than they were in July last year. Last year houses and flats approvals for June was 11,379 and for July 13,251. This year the figure for June was 9,974 and for July 9,772. So one can see that the approvals are lower than they were 2 years ago - in June 1968 70,381, and in July, 11,787. After disaster had struck the home building industry, the Reserve Bank - after. I have no doubt, a nudge from the Government - suggested to the savings banks that they extend and increase the volume of their housing loans in the coming months. 
The question now is - and we must look at this question seriously: To what extent will the home building section be resuscitated and at what economic level would a young married couple be able to afford to purchase a block of land and dwelling? The average cost of land and dwelling is $14,000. This is only an estimate, as there are no official figures available, but responsible building authorities give their average throughout Australia as $14,000. In Sydney it is probably much higher than that. The average price of land alone is in excess of $7,000. The recent amendment to the homes savings grant had to increase the allowable maximum cost of a block of land and dwelling from $15,000 to $17,500. Tn fact, there would be very few areas in the metropolitan area of Sydney represented by Government supporters where one could buy a block of land for lass than $8,000. I believe very few constituents of Government members in the metropolitan area of Sydney would be eligible for the homes savings grant because of the spiralling costs of land and homes. 1 sought assistance from the Parliamentary Library Statistical Service and I obtained details of loans, interest rates and monthly repayments for loans from the savings banks, the permanent building societies and the terminating building societies. I also requested a table showing the interest paid and the monthly repayments on housing loans of $12,000, repaid over a period of 15 years and 25 years respectively, at interest rates varying from 5 per cent to 8i per cent. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate those tables in Hansard. 

<graphic href="069131197009033_45_15.jpg"></graphic>

26 August1970 
Dear  Mr Uren, 
<para pgwide="yes">I refer to your request of 17 August for details of housing loans available from Terminating Building Societies. 
<para pgwide="yes">As lending terms vary between States, our enquiries were restricted to Terminating Building Societies in New South Wales. 
<para pgwide="yes">The maximum loan in New South Wales is currently$9,600 and the maximum term is 31 years. Most Societies are operating at present with moneys from the Housing Agreements, with other moneys coming from banks (including the Commonwealth Bank, mainly Savings Bank). If a borrower can find a Society operating with Commonwealth Bank money he could at present, arrange a loan at 6¼ per cent but otherwise he would have to pay 6¾ per cent. 
<para pgwide="yes">A borrower applies for so many shares, at $120 each (and shares are not broken, i.e. he must borrow in multiples of $1 20). If he borrows the maximum of $9,600 he takes out 80 shares and pays the following amounts per share per month. 
Society using Housing Agreement funds, etc.: 4.0 cents Management charges 77.0 cents Repayment of interest and capital 
. 0 cents Total repayments per share per month. 
Society using Commonwealth Bank funds: 4.0 cents Management charges 73.0 cents Repayment of capital and interest 
. 0 cents Total repayments per share per month. 
<para pgwide="yes">By taking out a loan of $9,600 for 31 years the borrower has to repay $24,105.60 under (i) above and $22,915.20 under (ii) above. 
<para pgwide="yes">Enclosed is a table giving details of monthly repayments and total repayments under both kinds of loan. 

<graphic href="069131197009033_46_0.jpg"></graphic>

If we examine the table giving details of interest repayments on housing loans of $12,000 for a period of 25 years we will see that if there is a.i per cent increase in the interest rate, as happened last April at the instigation of the Reserve Bank, it would result in a $1,180 increase in the amount repaid over 25 years. When the 
Reserve Bank made the increase from 7½ per cent to 8 per cent, as was the case with the permanent building societies, it meant an additional monthly repayment of about $4 over a period of 25 years for a $12,000 loan. In the last decade the interest rate for a $12,000 loan for a period of 25 years has increased from 5 per cent to  8 per cent. That 3 per cent increase meant that a person paying off a loan such as I have mentioned has to find an additional $6,740 in interest. This is the additional cost arising from the increase of interest rates and does not take into account the effect of the inflationary trend on the cost of land and dwelling. 
This Government supports usurious interest rates. This involves repayment of something like $22.47 extra and gives some idea of the effect of the rise in interest rates during this Government's term of office. Interest on a loan from a savings bank of $12,000 would be 6$ per cent for the first $8,000 and  Si  per cent for the remaining $4,000 as a second mortgage. Repayments over 25 years would be $112 per month for the first 8 years and $55 per month for the remaining 17 years. A $12,000 loan from a permanent building society would cost $94 a month, repaid over 25 years. In regard to the terminating building societies, the maximum loan of $9,600 repaid over 31 years would cost $81 per month, although this would leave a deposit gap of more than $4,000, taking the average cost of land and building. Therefore young people still have to bridge the deposit gap of from $4,000 to $5,000. In the case of the permanent building societies and savings banks, they would be at least $2,000 to $3,000 short of the deposit gap. 
The lending authorities assess that the monthly repayment should not exceed 25 per cent of the male's weekly earnings. No-one earning less than the average weekly wage, which is at present $77 a week, would have the slightest chance of getting a loan from the 3 major lending authorities. We must remember that from 65 per cent to 70 per cent of the people earn less than the average weekly wage. In fact very few people would be able to get a loan unless they earned between $90 to $100 a week. Even those people would still have to find $2,000 to $3,000 to bridge the gap if they are able to get a loan of $12,000. lt seems to me that the action taken recently by the Reserve Bank to encourage savings banks to increase their lending will help only a certain sector of the community. Again it is that sector which this Government represents. It does not represent the broad sector, the 65 per cent to 70 per cent of the people who need help most. I discussed the problems of low cost housing in a recent debate on a matter of public importance. Even the interest rates on homes built by State housing authorities have increased from 3 per cent to 6 per cent. I cannot sec any hope for the home builder in this Budget. In no practical way has it rectified the stupidity of the action taken last April. 
What would the Australian Labor Party do? Our major task would be to give confidence to the home building industry. We would set our targets and plans for future growth. We would not use the home building industry as an economic damper. We would bring uniformity within the industry to assist in making it more efficient. We would support a cheap money policy for home building in both the private and public sectors. We would make available adequate loans to meet the cost of land and dwelling so that young people will not have to meet crippling second mortgage loans. Our most important challenge is to meet the spiralling land costs. I will give an illustration of these by quoting from an article which appeared in the Canberra 'Times' of 10th March this year. lt stated: 
Land prices in Sydney have almost trebled in the past eight years, the Housing Industry Association showed in a survey today. 
. spiralling land prices some of which were Belrose, French's Forest and Warringah, $$,000 an acre in 1962 to $14,000 now; Ryde and Epping $4,000 to $16,000; Sutherland $5,000 -to $12,000. 
The survey interpreted increasing land prices  as  meaning  a  decline in future housing growth and said low income earners faced an increasing deposit gap. 
We believe the Commonwealth should involve itself in all our capital and provincial cities as it has done in Canberra. Why not other cities of Australia? Labor would set up a Department of Urban Affairs. One of its functions would be to create multifocal cities on the outskirts of our capital cities similar to the development of the centres in the Woden and Belconnen Valleys here in Canberra. They would have ail the cultural, social, educational, commercial, recreational and aesthetic developments, in co-operation with the States. The first of these cities would be built near Sydney between Menai on the east and Liverpool on the west, bordered by the National Park on the south and Georges River on the north. The land at present is under the control of the New South Wales 
State Government and the Department of Defence. The State Planning Authority in New South Wales plans a city of 250,000 there. The development of this area by an authority similar to the National Capital Development Commission would allow the public sector to compete with the private sector to dampen down the price of land in Sydney. 
Under the authority the area could be developed by the construction of homes by private and public sectors similar to Canberra. The land would remain leasehold. Land could be allocated according to need. A ballot system could also be instituted; in certain circumstances, there may be auctions. Need would be the major requirement. Whilst such a project is under way, the Department of Urban Affairs would acquire land in large quantities in all our capital and provincial cities in cooperation with the States, with the possible exception of Brisbane. We would involve ourselves in slum clearance in inner city areas and redevelopment of our capital cities. We are confident that a Commonwealth Labor government would work in co-operation with the States and. local authorities to conquer the urban drought and lift our cities from their present quagmire, so that the young, the old and the not so old might enjoy the security of urban life. This is an important aspect of life which this Budget does not meet. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I rise on a point of order. In relation to the second point taken by the honourable member for Gwydir, it is a matter of opinion whether he is aged or not. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to  be  omitied  (Mr Whitlam's  amendment) stand part ofthe question. 
Who did say that? It was said by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  who spoke earlier in this debate. So let us stop these comments and get back to sanity. Let us examine the question of what we really have to do. Why do those who support the Moratorium demonstrate? Why do people with such diverse of political beliefs demonstrate? For instance, in the United States, as my colleague the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  pointed out, about 40 United States Senators have just voted to stop all aid to Vietnam by the end of 1971. Forty United States Senators, or to be exact, 39, voted to stop all financial aid to the United States forces in South East Asia. That mean that they want all troops out by that date. 1 give great credit to America even though I condemn its bombing of Vietnam. Today America has the greatest spirit of freedom in the world. The American people are struggling against their own government for the right to be heard. The American nation is split. This struggle has torn the heart out of their society. It has defeated a  President  and has proved that the American people have a conscience. In the United States we find Republicans and Democrats in both the Senate and the House of Representatives speaking out against this vile, immoral war in Vietnam, this inhuman, bottomless pit of human suffering. But not one present supporter of the Government has ever shown any doubt about the Government's attitude to Vietnam. Only one Government supporter resigned from the Liberal Party because his conscience was killing him. God bless him. He is now dead. He was  Senator Hannaford  from South Australia. 
As far as I am concerned, this is a great moral question. We must look at it in this way because the Government says that we are fighting for freedom in Vietnam. Everybody who studies the history of the struggle in Vietnam knows that the United States placed pressure on the 17 nations which make up NATO to make military forces available for Vietnam. Every one of those 17 nations refused. Where are our SEATO allies? Where is France, Britain and Pakistan? Even the Philippines, which had 2,000 men in Vietnam on construction work, has withdrawn its forces. It has now been stated that Thailand is going to withdraw her forces. So we stand alone, the lonely few Australians, like 'a lonely petunia in an onion patch'. It is this Government which has betrayed our young men. The Government is responsible for the deaths of more than 400 young men who have perished in Vietnam and over 2,000 who will carry injuries for the rest of their days. I have been to Vietnam. I was there in 1965. I saw first hand the conditions under which they lived and fought. I am sorry for every young Australian there. My Leader when speaking at the Sydney Town Hall during the last general election campaign said that if Labor were elected, by the end of June 1970 every Australian serviceman would be out of Vietnam. I was indeed proud of that statement, as I have been proud of the record of my colleagues who have struggled for peace and freedom in Vietnam. We believe that we must stop this immoral war. We do not say that all the rights are on one side and all the wrongs are on the other side. Over and over again we have called for a compromise and a negotiated peace because that is the only way that peace and sanity can be brought to Vietnam. The spurious motion that has been moved this morning by a lowly back, bencher opposite is a disgrace to his Party and to this Parliament. 
Sitting suspended from  12.52  to  2.15  p.m. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Have the current high interest charges which have to be borne by home owners been the subject of recent consideration by the Government 
Is it a fact that the Government has considered, as a means of alleviating the situation, the inclusion of the amount of interest payments as a tax deduction and that the allowance should be granted on a first housing mortgage up to $12,000 provided the maximum cost of the dwelling and land does not exceed $18,000. 
If so, can such a scheme be inequitable in that the benefit varies according to the income of the taxpayer, the larger income earner gaining the greater amount of benefit. 
Has any estimate been made of the cost of this type of proposal; if not, will the proposal be considered and an estimate of its cost be provided. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the average cost of land in Canberra has been reduced by one third, that is, from$4,500 in 1962-63 to $3,000 in May 1970? Is this reduction due mainly to the planning of the National Capital Developmen Commission? Is he aware also that the average cost of land in Sydney is approximately $7,000 and that land prices during the same period that I have mentioned have risen by over 200 per cent in Sydney? Will the Prime Minister give consideration to the development of the 78 square miles of land in the Menai-Liverpool area - which was mentioned earlier this week by my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes - at present under the control of the Commonwealth, by an authority similar to the National Capital Development Commission so that land might be made available in Sydney at a price equal to that at which land is available in Canberra? 
The estimates before the Committee are those of the Department of External Affairs. It is of particular note that these are the first estimates for this Department that we have dealt with under the new administration.  Sir Paul  Hasluck, the former Minister for External Affairs, has now been elevated to Governor-General and  Sir William  Plimsol has been given the task of representing Australia at Washington. The former Treasurer,  Mr William  McMahon, is now the Minister for External Affairs and  Sir Keith  Waller is in charge of the Department. I want to examine briefly a couple of aspects where I think probably under the Waller influence - I emphasise the Waller influence on the Department of External Affairs rather than the McMahon influence - there could be a more rational approach to the matter of international relations. If one looks briefly at the 
Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty it will be seen that for years the Department of External Affairs stalled on the signing of the Treaty. It could be that the Department of External Affairs wanted to sign the Treaty - I believe it did - but its spokesman was not forceful enough and there was great pressure from the Atomic Energy Commission for Australia not to sign the Treaty. 
I have no doubt that those forces within the Cabinet that have the  Sir Philip  Baxter mentality applied pressure because of their fear that they might be sold down the drain by signing the Treaty and would not get the development that they wanted; that they would not be able to create first of all their own atomic weapon and later their own nuclear weapon. Although Australia was one of the last 2 countries to sign the Treaty, we did sign it and the new Minister for External Affairs proudly boasted that he did so as soon as he became Minister. I do not know whether it was the time limit that made him sign it so quickly but, be that as it may, the Government signed it. The other aspect on which there seems to be a more enlightened approach under the present administration is in relation to Cambodia. There certainly is a division in the Government's ranks. The WallerMcMahon attitude is not to involve Australia too deeply in the Cambodian conflict, in particular by the supply of arms, but to try to restrict our involvement to economic aid. On the other hand I believe that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Department of Defence, supported by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  and no doubt the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  have a different attitude because we know that the Prime Minister has not only a Baxter mentality but also the policeman-on-the-beat mentality when it comes to interfering in the internal affairs of Asian countries. 
The last aspect on which I see a change of attitude and policy is in relation to Japan. Recently Ambassador Saito, as reported in the 'Australian' of 10th September 1970, said: 
In Australia the general expectation is that Japan should play a military role as well as being an economic great power. Many believe that Japan will in any case become a military power. 
It is reported in the 'Australian' of 12th September 1970 that when the Minister for External Affairs went to Japan recently, in commenting at a Tokyo Press conference on statements made in Tokyo that week, he said that he did not expect Japan to play a military role. I think he is probably the first senior member of an Australian government in the last decade to have made such a clear and positive statement in regard to the Australian attitude on Japanese rearmament. There is an attitude in certain quarters of the United States of America as well as Britain, Australia and other countries, that Japan should rearm to become the balance of power against the People's Republic of China. This attitude runs right through the ranks of Government supporters in this Parliament. I praise the Minister for External Affairs for having said that but it is my view that irrespective of what he said, Japan has a very clear view at the present time - I hope it maintains this view - that it should not worry much about what Australia's view is on whether it becomes a military power because Japan has recognised that the way to power, particularly in Asia, is not by using military power but by achieving economic power. I think that has been recognised by Japan. 
I believe that Japan has been getting defence on the cheap. That country has been spending a very small proportion of its gross national product on defence. That is a major reason why she is such an important competitor economically in trade and commerce throughout the world. As one who has seen Japanese militarism at its worst I want to see a peaceful Japan maintained. Most Australians will encourage Japan to stay a peaceful country and to maintain its economic policy. We should compete with Japan in the economic field and not in the military field. In a short period of time Japan as a nation could create its own nuclear weapons. It could build inter-continental ballistic missiles. Japan has the technology to become one of the nuclear powers in a short period of time, and already we have too many fingers on the nuclear trigger. 
No matter now rational this administration of the Department of External Affairs is it is still confronted with the obstacle of Vietnam. The Government is still faced with this quagmire which has created so much suffering and which has torn the United States apart. The United States, which is the most powerful nation in the world, is trying to bomb and destroy one of the smallest nations in the world. The United States thought that it could set out to defeat Vietnam and still build its 'Great Society'.  President  Johnson, whose internal social policies were probably the most progressive since  President  Roosevelt, wanted to build a great society, to give Medicare to the aged and to effect many social reforms internally in the United States. But because of the economic drain of Vietnam on the United States he was destroyed. The United States reached the stage where it was spending $3 5, 000m a year. When the Westmoreland proposal was put forward for another 206,000 troops for victory in Vietnam the crash came because Wall Street recognised that this would cost another $ 12,000m a year. Inflationary trends were mounting and there was a run on gold. The United States could not meet its commitment of $35 to the ounce and the International Monetary Fund had to set 2 prices on gold. As a result Johnson soon afterwards promoted Westmoreland upstairs and decided that he would stop the bombing of North Vietnam and enter into negotiations with the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. Of course, the United States argues that the real issue is that it wants peace now. The United States knew that it could not get a military victory and now it wants peace. 
One really has to examine the United States attitude to see whether that country wants peace or whether it wants to stay in Vietnam. I would like to quote from an article written by a very eminent American,  Mr Roger  Hilsman, who was a former United States Secretary of State for the Far East in the John Kennedy Administration and who is now Professor of Government at the Columbia University.  Mr Hilsman  said: 

 President Nixon's policy of Vietnamisation - gradual withdrawal of American troops, concurrent with an increase in the amount and quality of aid to South Vietnam - is based on his hope that Saigon will be able to continue the war completely alone; or at most with the aid of United States air and artillery forces. 
The reduction in American casualties, it is believed, would not only mute the opposition at home, but make it possible to wage a 'long-haul, low-cost' war. 
I believe that the real basis of United States policy is that there should be a low cost war, that it wants to step down its commitment. It can in fact keep 10 Vietnamese in the field for the cost of 1 United States soldier. I believe that the United States will wage a 'long-haul' and that it will maintain its air and artillery power. The United States has already dropped more bombs on Vietnam than the Allies dropped on Axis powers during the Second World War. I believe that the United States will continue this type of operation. This is why people all over Australia will be demonstrating tomorrow against the war in Vietnam. They will be calling for a cessation of the war in Vietnam and a withdrawal of all Australian and foreign forces from Vietnam to allow the Vietnamese people to settle their own affairs. 
Criticisms of the moratorium have come from many people. Criticisms have come from both State and Federal sections of my own Party. Some doubts have been expressed about demonstrations in the streets of Australia. I make no secret of the fact that there are divisions of opinion on this side but it could be said that this is a healthy position. But I question again and again whether any honourable member on the Government side will express the slightest doubt or the slightest reservation about the stupidity of Australia's involvement in the war in Vietnam. My answer to my critics within my own Party or outside my Party - and I direct this mainly at the Government ranks and to those people in the newspapers; - is that it is easy to contract out of a matter but it is much harder to stay in and call for restraint. My attitude is that we will call for restraint and that we will call for non-violent demonstrations. We are against violence in Vietnam and we are against violence in the streets by Australian citizens. We need a peaceful country and we want to bring peace to Vietnam. We do not want to bring demonstrations and violence into the streets. However, we call on all Australians to come out and express their indignation at one of the most barbaric actions ever carried out by a so-called civilisation - and I refer to the actions of (he United States. There is another side to the United States. The United States has 39 senators - that is, nearly 40 per cent of the United States 
Senate - who want to end all military aid to South East Asia by 1971. But we have no honourable members on the Government side who have any doubts about our military involvement in Vietnam. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to make a personal explanation. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the article on pollution by the Minister for the Army in the 'Australian Quarterly', which has been widely reported in the Australian Press, calling on the Commonwealth Government to act to control the polluting of our environment? Does the Prime Minister agree with the honourable gentleman's views? If not, why not? If the Prime Minister does agree with those views, why was not any mention made in the Treasurer's Budget speech of action to implement the recommendations of. the Senate .Select Committee on Air Pollution and also the recommendations . of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution? 

 - Mr Speaker, to put this in perspective- 
On a point of order on what transpired yesterday. 
I make a personal explanation. 
I claim that 1 gave information yesterday to this House - it was ignored - on what transpired. I want to state it again now. The Government refused to accept my explanation. I said that that was the reason why the honourable member for Dawson was dismissed but honourable members on the Government side refused to accept my explanation and they went ahead and dismissed him. You will note,  Mr Speaker,  if you examine page 1589 of Hansard that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made a statement. Following that statement the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  made his statement. It will be seen clearly from looking at page 1589 of Hansard that the Leader of the Opposition said that there were no Vietcong flags at the May meeting, and he then gave the explanation that if there were any Vietcong flags they were brought up at Friday's meeting after he had spoken. 
lt is a personal explanation. 
With all due respect to you - I respect the Chair- 
May I now come to what I said yesterday? 
 Mr Speaker- 
All I say is- 

 Mr UREN (Reid&gt;-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by what the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  said. On page 1594 of yesterday's Hansard T am reported as saying: 
The Minister for the Interior used the words the honourable member for Lalor and others'. 
Of course I am personally involved, 
I was saying that on page 1594 of yesterday's Hansard I am reported as saying: 
The Minister for the Interior used the words the honourable member for Lalor and others'. This was after an explanation by the Leader of the Opposition on how he spoke on Friday and oil the appearance of certain flags. The Minister said that if he conferred with the honourable member for Lalor and others- 
Then 1 was brought to a halt. The point 1 was making was that it was the Friday meeting; it was not the May meeting. I made it perfectly clear that it was long before the honourable member- 

 - Mr Speaker, I had intended to raise this matter when we were dealing with the estimates for the Department of the Interior, but because of the limited time which was allowed for that debate 1 was unable to do so. Therefore, I am using the debate on the motion for the adjournment to discuss this matter. 
For a number of years 1 have been lt') ing to get the Commonwealth Interested in our historic homes, in particular Elizabeth Farm Cottage at Rosehill near Parramatta. lt is the oldest existing cottage in Australia. The National Trust of New South Wales wanted to purchase and restore it, but it was unable to do so as the former owner wanted an amount which was far beyond the Trust's means. 
A private trust was set up and I understand that the cottage was purchased for an amount of $50,000. At least another $50,000 will be needed to restore it. The money has not yet been raised. As far as I know, the Commonwealth has not made any financial contribution whatsoever. If it has, it has not paid me the courtesy of providing details in reply to my frequent representations. I am mystified as to why the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  who says he is Australian to the boot heels, has not used his power to involve the Commonwealth in purchasing, in co-operation with the Stale and local authorities, our historic homes not only in the Parramatta area but throughout New South Wales and Australia. 
We should set up a national fund from the Commonwealth Treasury not only topurchase but to restore our historic homes. 1 believe that a Commonwealth fund should be set up whereby State governments, local authorities and organisations such as the National Trust could make applications for money with which to purchase and restore our historic homes which should be retained in the national interest. The fund should be administered by the Department of the Interior, with representatives on the fund from the Pi une Minister's Department, the National Trust and conservation groups and other such bodies. This fund should be utilised not only to purchase and restore our historic, homes but also to purchase, retain and restore some of our nation's native wonderlands. 
In one of the most urbanised nations in the world we need to be guardians against further destruction of our environment. In' this discussion I do not want to deal with the pollution of our environment: I intend to deal with that aspect when we are debating the estimates for the Department of National Development. But I want to deal with the destruction of our environment by machines made by man, such as the bulldozer. I want to deal with the Sydney area which I know best and where we have the greatest urbanised population in Australia. For a number of years I have had a block of land in the mountains at a place called Mount Wilson. It is a place of great beauty. It is over 3,000 feet above sea level, where trees and shrubs from the Northern Hemisphere thrive with those indigenous to own own country. It is a place where one can be creative in a constructive way. At the same time it is a safety valve, a retreat. It is a serene, gentle and beautiful area. It makes the most difficult of men bearable. Mount Wilson is a place which we may have to retain for posterity, and the fund that I recommend could be used for this purpose. 
I want to give an example of how recently one of Sydney's wonderlands was practically destroyed. Had I not travelled to Mount Wilson whenever I could get a spare moment I would not have known of its destruction. It is a place called Bellbird Hill, near Kurrajong Heights. It ranges from north Richmond up through Kurrajong to Kurrajong Heights. It is a twisting, turning steep hill which runs through a gentle, serene area with thick underbrush. The area was covered by Australian eucalypts. It was an area where the majestic angopheras thrived. About 2 weeks ago the bulldozer took over to convert this nature's wonderland into a farmland. Most of the eucalypts were knocked down and only a few angopheras were left. The underbrush and trees were bulldozed down into the ravines where the bellbirds hide. When the trees dry off I have no doubt that they will be burned, thus destroying the natural habitat of the bellbird. 
Such a disaster - such destruction - created by so-called progressive man should never have been permitted in the 1970s. Creating farmlands from Kurrajong to Bilpin and beyond, the bulldozer is still at work. It is creating farmlands which economically should not be permitted. Most of them are created or at least purchased by Pitt Street farmers - business and professional men - using the cost of creating these farms as a deduction from their taxable income. The Commonwealth is subsidising the destruction of our environment. Instead it should be creating a national fund to purchase and retain it in its natural state. In many countries, particularly the United States and some of the European Economic Community countries, farm acreages are being restricted. In many cases the governments are purchasing farms and allowing them to revert to their natural environment. 
Another example is an area close to Sydney. This is a magnificent spotted gum forest between Camptelltown and Appin. It is admired by most motorists travelling from Sydney to Wollongong via Appin. As far as I know it is still owned privately. An area such as this should be retained in its natural state. It should be protected. If it is purchased with money from a fund such as I have suggested it will be protected. But if it is not one day we will see the bulldozer come along and destroy such a forest. Such a fund could commence the Neilson plan to develop areas around Sydney Harbour in the 1970s. Neilson envisaged a greenbelt around Sydney Harbour. There is no reason why, with intelligent use of such a fund, local authorities and the State Government could not purchase many harbourside properties. I hope honourable members know that the City of Sydney has purchased some but we need to assist the State Government and local authorities to purchase such properties. Harbourside properties should have covenants placed on them so that the residents, if they desire to sell, will have to sell to a public authority. The areas could progressively be restored so that the people could enjoy one of nature's wonderlands. At present only a limited number of people can enjoy the views of Sydney Harbour. The Commonwealth should progressively transfer to the State Government and to local authorities property it already holds on the foreshores of Sydney Harbour. 
I have dealt with Sydney and nearby areas, but every Australian capital city, provincial city and hamlet should have something unique to make our country beautiful. I have no doubt that there are other parts of Australia that need the same attention. This is 1970. If we are to conserve, develop and retain Australia we have to act now. It is not much good the Prime Minister speaking during tourist week and saying that we want to make Australia beautiful. The only way to make Australia beautiful is to act and for this 
Commonwealth Government to use its financial powers in co-operation with the State Government and local authorities to retain the beauty that we have and to try to develop that beauty so that we will keep Australia beautiful. We have to keep it beautiful for our own people and to develop it in the interests of future generations. The people should share in the beauty and prosperity and I hope that the stupidity of man, as was illustrated with the destruction of Bellbird Hill, will not be evident again. I have no doubt that Bellbird Hill will be purchased by some Pitt Street farmer who will be subsidised by the Commonwealth. It is time that the Commonwealth, in co-operation with the State Government and with local authorities, set out to purchase the properties now, to protect Australia and to keep Australia beautiful. 
I move: 
That the proposed expenditure for the Department of Housing be reduced by $1 as an instruction to the Government that a national inquiry is initiated to ascertain the nation's housing needs in the future; to identify the shortcomings of the building industry so that they may be quickly removed; to establish beyond doubt the priorities which should be observed in the provision of funds for housing; to overcome interest and deposit problems; and to provide land and housing at low cost by means of appropriate agreement between the Commonwealth, the States and local government authorities. 
The Commonwealth must acknowledge, without reservation, its responsibility for ensuring that every Australian has a proper home in which to raise his family at a cost which does not impair his capacity to meet his family's needs. This is not the position at present. In 1969 Australia required additional dwellings for at least 108,000 families newly formed by marriage and at least 25,000 families newly arrived from overseas. We required additional dwellings for 9,000 families who had previously shared accommodation and for 17,000 families who felt sufficiently affluent to want a second home. We required replacements for 18,000 dwellings lost by mishap or demolition. In all, therefore, our total national housing requirement was 177,000 dwellings. Of these, 34,000 were found from existing housing stock. Since in the course of 1969 we constructed only about 135,000 dwellings there was a shortfall in the housing supply of at least 8,000 dwellings. In 1970 we will require at least 147,000 new dwellings, but instead of stepping up our rate of construction we have actually allowed it to fall quite drastically. The number of new dwellings approved between 1969 and 1970 fell, in May from 14,732 to 11,307, a drop of 23 per cent; in June from 13,123 to 11,954, a drop of 9 per cent; in July from 15,029 to 11,184, a drop of 25.6 per cent; and in August from 13,772 to 11,628 a drop of 15.6 per cent. In the 4 months May to August the position was that approvals on new dwellings had fallen by 19 per cent as compared with the same period last year. A spokesman for the building industry,  Mr R.  L. Sears, Acting National  President  of the Housing Industry Association has said: 
On the basis of recent approval figures, backed by continuing industry surveys, September quarter commencements are likely to be at least IS per cent below September quarter 1969, despite special efforts to accelerate commencements by Government authorities in the early months of the 1970-71 financial year. 
Approvals for dwellings granted in the first half of 1970 fell short by 1,730 of the number granted in the first half of 1969. On present trends it appears that in 1970 there will be a shortage in Australia's requirements of some 16,000 dwellings. By 1972 Australia's annual requirement for new housing will have risen to 156,000 dwellings and by 1977 to 183,000 dwellings. We should be planning and gearing up for the next 3 decades because more dwellings will be constructed in that period than have been built since the commencement of our history. This is a challenge that we must meet. We cannot continue to use the housing sector of the building industry as a major instrument to dampen down the economy. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  when he was Minister for Housing,  in a speech on the Budget in September  1965,  said: 
. the deficiency in using housing to dampen demand is that it impedes the achievement of some of our most fundamental national objectives. 
Yet his first action on becoming Treasurer was to. use the same worn out weapon to bludgeon down the home sector of the building industry. He gave no special consideration to this sector as was given to the rural sector. He knew what he had said in  1965.  In the same speech he said: 
We already have the labour and resources to construct upwards of 110,000 dwelling units per annum without undue strain on the rest of the economy. 
He knew that there was no pressure on the home sector of the building industry in April  1970.  He knew that the pressure was on the commercial sector, in particular in respect of commercial buildings. Evidence was available that there was no pressure on labour and resources in the home building sector then. His action in placing pressure on this sector of the industry, which he had warned against in  1965,  forced interest rates up to the highest level in our history. When interest rates were increased by  i  per cent, from  7i  per cent to  8  per cent, on a  $12,000  loan from a permanent building society repayable over  25  years, it added a further  $1,180  to the cost of repayment of the loan. In fact, the interest rate for permanent building society loans has increased from  6  per cent in June  1964  to  8  per cent at the present time, and some permanent building societies are charging even  8)  per cent. This increase in interest rates from  6  per cent to  8  per cent means the payment of an extra sum of  $4,590  -on a loan of  $12,000  repaid over a period of  25  years. This is why we say there should be a national inquiry into housing. The Commonwealth Trading Bank has increased its interest rates during the last  2  decades from  3?  per cent to  6i  per cent. 
The deposit gap is another aspect at which we must look. The maximum loan provided by the Commonwealth Savings Bank is  $8,000.  In special circumstances it will provide a second mortgage of  $4,000,  to lift the total loan to  $12,000.  This, in itself, is insufficient because the average cost of a block of land and a home throughout Australia now is  $14,000.  People have to find at least  $2,000  to bridge the deposit gap. Honourable members opposite know that the Government had to increase from  $15,000  to  $17,500  the limit on the value of a home that may attract a homes savings grant, and even this is not enough. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  quite correctly stated during the debate on the Homes Savings Grant Bill that the limit should have been raised to at least $20,000. 
There are other matters to consider besides the deposit gap and a person's ability to pay. Repayments on a permanent building society loan of $12,000, repayable over  25  years, would be at least  $92  a month. But the average weekly wage is only  $77  a week, and  65  per cent to  75  per cent of workers earn less than the average weekly wage. This shows that the repayments on a  $12,000  loan from a permanent building society are out of the reach of the normal worker. Because my time is short, I want to deal briefly with a few aspects of low cost housing. I do not want to be discourteous to the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  in another place. In herself she is a gracious lady, but as the Minister for Housing, she is a miserable failure. On 29th September last, when addressing a building and construction forum in Melbourne, she said: 
One of the major aims of our housing contribution in the next few years will be to encourage the States to provide decent housing for lower income families who are unable to obtain satisfactory private rental accommodation . . . 
Further on she said: 
At the head of the list of our national housing aims are encouragement of the production of more homes, the building of homes specifically for renting . . . 
This relates to the question of low cost housing. Never before in Australia's history have the States been charged a higher interest rate on money borrowed to provide low cost housing. The Chifley Labor Government provided the States with  53-year  loans, bearing an interest rate of  3  per cent, for the construction of low income housing. The Commonwealth agreed to meet three-fifths of the rent rebates. This was designed to ensure that no low income family would be required to pay more than one-fifth of its income for a government home. The interest rate has increased from  3  per cent to  6  per  cent; yet the Minister talks about the Government's policy in the way I have just mentioned. 
In 1954-55, 17,900 homes were built by the State housing authorities. Those homes represented 22 per cent of all housing. But last year State housing authorities built 12,300 homes, or 9.7 per cent of all housing. This shows the hypocrisy of this Government. It talks about its major priorities, but those figures show how low housing is on the Government's list of priorities. 1 turn to land prices. The average price of a block of land throughout Australia is $4,000, but in the Sydney area the average price is $7,000. In the Sydney area the price of land has increased by 200 per cent in the last 8 years. But during this period of time, due to planning the price of land sold at unrestricted auctions in Canberra decreased from $4,500 in 1962-63 to $3,000 in May 1970, a reduction of 33* per cent. Land can still be purchased at restricted auctions in Canberra for an average price of $900. I am quoting these figures from the thirteenth annual report of the National Capital Development Commission. lt is important that there should be a national inquiry to deal with interest rates, the deposit gap, the ability of people to pay and spiralling land costs. It should deal also with the necessity for more efficiency and uniformity within the building industry. The facts I have mentioned show the hypocrisy of the Government, which has failed to meet its commitments. The Labor Party calls for a national inquiry; it is long overdue. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Government any control over the Wool Board or the authority which will be responsible for the construction of wool villages. 
If so, what is that control. 
Is it a fact that a wool village is to be constructed at Yennora, approximately 15 miles from Sydney in the Holroyd Municipality. 
Is it a fact that no extra or special arrangements have been made to deal with greatly increased road traffic to the village and that residents living in the MerrylandsGuildfordFairfieldYennora area will be affected by noise and pollution created by the increased road traffic. 
If sp, will he thoroughly investigate all aspects of planning, especially in regard to the increased road traffic problems which will be created by the proposed wool village. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to continue to use the home building sector as an instrument to dampen down the economy. 
If not, does it intend to follow the guidelines set out in his speech on the Budget in September 1965. 
If so, what is the estimated number of dwellings which can be constructed in each year for the next 3 years without undue strain on the rest of the economy. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. He is aware that the Commonwealth, particularly the Department of Defence, retains large quantities of land on the foreshores of Sydney Harbour. He would be aware that the New South Wales Government and a broad section of our community are seeking the restoration of the natural environment of the areas of North, South and Middle Heads and Georges Heights. Will he consider transferring progressively to the State these Commonwealth areas so that they can be restored to parklands and so that all Australians may enjoy the beauty of one of nature's wonderlands? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Is the Minister able to say what weekly income is necessary as a pre-requisite to obtaining a $12,000 loan over 25 years from a permanent building society. 
The Bill before the House is to authorise the borrowing of $142,550,000 to be advanced to the States during 1970-71 for housing ir accordance with the Commonwealth and 
State Housing Agreement. The amounts to be distributed to the States under this Bill are as follows: New South Wales $50.3m; Victoria $36.5m; Queensland $10.5m; South Australia $24m; Western Australia $12.5m and Tasmania $8.75m. It should be noted that this is the concluding year of the period covered by the present Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement and a new agreement is to be made in 1971. It is for this reason that I want to deal with some aspects of low cost housing. Due to the negative policies of the Gorton Government housing is one of its lowest priorities. It is hypocritical for the Gorton Government to talk about prosperity while so many Australians are so illhoused and impoverished by the cost of housing. Proper housing for all is the foundation of a genuine national prosperity. This is not the case with this Government. Under a Labor administration decent housing for all would be one of our major priorities. Low interest rates and rentals within ones economic requirements would be Labor's policy. Under the Chifley Labor Government the Labor Party provided the States with 53-year loans bearing an interest rate of 3 per cent for the construction of low cost housing. This scheme was designed to ensure that no low income family would be required to pay more than one-fifth of its income on a government home. But these conditions have been eroded over the years. 
Labor believes that low cost housing has a right to share and be constructed in serene and gentle surroundings with all of the aesthetic, cultural, sporting, social, recreational and industrial environment. We would hope that low cost housing will not continue to be at the extremes whether it be the  concrete jungles of North Melbourne which have been constructed by the Victorian Housing Commission or the Green Valleys or Mount Druitts which are on the outskirts of Sydney and which have been constructed by the New South Wales Housing Commission. We are building great social problems for the future in both Sydney and Melbourne. I want to quote an extract from a very informative book entitled 'Ideas for Australian Cities' written by Hugh Stretton. On page 160 of his book  Mr Stretton  writes: . 
Green Valley's workers travel out of the district to work. There and back, three-quarters of them travel between 25 and SO miles a day. Half must  change channels twice or more each. way. For a quarter of them, travelling time add the equivalent of 2 working days to the working week. The average is nearly 2 hours a day; with some misfitting between work and transport timetables, many families do without their breadwinners for 11 or 12 hours. Also the city's lowest wages pay some of its highest fares. Similar distances and (without weekly concession tickets) even higher fares separate them from most friends and relations they'd like to visit, and from the pleasures and services of the city centre which is more than an hour each way and more than a dollar return. To get a family of 6 from Green Valley to the beach or the zoo and back takes most of a day, including half, a day's travel by car or perhaps 2 days' wages in' fares and expenses ... 60 per cent of Green Valley's families have no car and 29 per cent have no wages. The outpatients' departments of public hospitals are not very easy or cheap to get to either. 
These are just a few words extracted from Hugh Stretton's book which show the difficulties under which people live in low cost housing on the outskirts of Sydney. One can examine the position that exists in the concrete jungles of north Melbourne. These social problems will be of great concern to this country as a whole. It is the Commonwealth Government that must bear the responsibility of priorities in housing. It will only be through co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States that we will overcome the madness of driving people out to the extreme fringes of the large cities without the social, cultural and aesthetic amenities to which they are entitled. 
What is the approach of this Government to housing? The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  dealt with the question of low cost housing in an address she gave to the Building and Construction Forum in Melbourne on 29th September 1970. She said: 
Those in need of assistance include low income families - many of them migrant families - aged persons and invalids, lt is a unfortunate fact- 
After this Government has been in office for 2 decades the Minister for Housing in the Gorton Administration says: 
Tt is an unfortunate fact that an increasing number of widow3-and deserted wives wilh dependent children are seeking assistance from State housing authorities. 
She went on to say that we must improve our rate of home construction over the next few years and said that the Government will encourage the construction of more homes, but the Government has increased the interest rates on housing loans to 6 per cent this year. That is how the Government has encouraged home building. The Minister went on to say that the Government would encourage the construction of better housing for low income families who are unable to obtain satisfactory private rental accommodation or who are paying more than they can really afford. She said: 
The housing of these people must be given high priority. 
I emphasise those words of the Minister. She said that people of this type must be given a high priority. She went on: 
At the bead of the list of our national housing aims are encouragement of ' the production of more homes, the building of homes specifically for renting to those in need of a decent or cheaper home, and the offer of assistance to low income families wishing to own a home of  their  own. Our policies are directed towards achieving these aims, and as quickly as possible. 
This Government has been in power for 2 decades and the Minister for Housing now says that the Government wishes to achieve these aims as quickly as possible. Let us really examine the social priorities of the Gorton Government on low cost housing. In 1954-55, 17,959 homes were constructed by the State housing authorities under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. By 1968-69 the number had dropped to 12,305. The number of homes constructed by the State housing authorities as a percentage of all new dwellings constructed was 22 per cent in 1954-55. In 1968-69 it had been reduced to 9.7 per cent. This is a social problem to which high priority must be given as quickly as possible. 
The interest rates which had been 3 per cent under the Chifley Government have increased to 6 per cent under the Gorton Government. Does this indicate that the Government is giving a high priority to low cost housing? Interest rates on housing loans today are the highest that have ever been charged in the history of Australia. One must disregard this excited statement by the Minister for Housing. The Gorton Government has a miserable record not only in low cost housing but in housing as a whole. Whenever the Government has had to dampen down the economy it has on every occasion taken action that has affected the home building sector of the building industry. I will deal at a later stage with this question of dampening down the economy and increasing interest rates. 
I sought from the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library details of how rents on State Housing Commission homes have been affected by the increase in the interest rate this year from 5 per cent to 6 per cent. Again this is a question of priorities. Interest rates this year have increased by 1 per cent over last year. In regard to the amortisation component of the rent, the Research Service has provided me with details that show that on a leased 3-bedroom cottage of brick veneer costing $10,000 to construct, rent has increased from $15.40 to $17.20 a week, an increase of $1.80 a week. This has come about because of the 1 per cent increase in interest on the loan allocation by the Commonwealth to the States. 
I sought also details of the extent to which the increases in rent would be due to the increase in interest rates from 3 per cent under the Chifley Government to 6 per cent under the Gorton Government. These figures were difficult to assess because the changes had taken place over a period of 2 decades. But I have been supplied with figures which disclose that for a dwelling such as I have mentioned the weekly rent has increased from $12.10 to $17.20, an increase of $5.10. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard a table which sets out the average rentals for State Housing Commission houses in the Sydney metropolitan area from 1945 to 1951. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to be misrepresented on 2 aspects. The - first is that the honourable member for Mallee said that 1. did not make any comparison of the policy of the present Government with that of the previous Labor Government. 1 did. I clearly stated that the Chiflley Labor Government established the Commonwealth and States Housing Agreements under which loans, repayable in 53 years, were advanced to the States. The Agreement provided, as I said, that no tenant should have to pay more than one-fifth of his income in rent. 1 said that the interest rale under the Chifley Government was 3 per cent, and that steadily over the years these conditions have been eroded. The second aspect is in regard to my attitude to the rural sector. I said that last April the rural sector, after representations made by the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Leader of the Australian Country Party, was able to receive special conditions from the Reserve Bank. I was making no criticism of that. What I was saying was that if there were conditions under which the rural sector could receive special consideration then we had amply the right to ask for special consideration for the home building section of the building industry. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
ls it the intention of the Government to change the Land Valuation Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory as suggested by the Prime Minister on 13th May 1970 when speaking in support of the Liberal candidate in the byelection for the Australian Capital Territory. 
Have representations been made by responsible bodies (a) for and (b) opposing the abolition of land rent; if so, will he make them available. 
On what reports or recommendations were the Government's proposals formulated. 
Has the National Capital Development Commission, which has made studies of Australian Capital Territory finances and is responsible for the planning of Canberra, presented any views in support of the proposals. 
Has any study been made by his Department or the National Capital Development Commission of the likely consequences of the planning, use of leases and changes m the use of leases. 
Is it anticipated that the abolition of land rent will lead to increased pressures for residential land to be changed to commercial uses and give rise to speculation in residential properties. 
Is it a fact that some 20,000 lessees currently paying land rents fixed by lease agreements will be subject to rates which are to be determined arbitrarily by the Minister and applied to valuations which can be revised at any time by the Minister. 
Will lessees be required to pay substantially more than they would be required to pay under the safeguard of their present lease agreements. 
Will the imposition of a reserve price on future leases- impose an additional cash burden on home builders, a cost which is now recovered through rent over a long period. 
Wilt future lessees be placed at a disadvantage as compared with current lessees who have paid premiums based on a fixed liability for land rent. 
Have the Chamber of Commerce and the Advistory Council expressed concern about the current administration of leasehold land in the Territory. 
If so, is the abolition of land rem" designed to silence these criticisms. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. With the renewal of Britain's application to join the European Economic Community, will the livelihoods of people in the rural sector of Australia be in jeopardy? The Prime Minister will be aware that during the past 6 years since Britain made its first application, farm acreage, particularly in sectors such as dairying, fruit growing and wheat producing, has increased? Is he aware that natural woodlands, even areas of great natural beauty, are still being destroyed with the encouragement of the State governments and the Commonwealth Treasury which allow Pitt Street farmers to purchase farmlands and use such transactions as deductions for income tax purposes? Will he examine the Commonwealth's attitude to this foolish action and also have a discussion with the States with a view to restricting farm acreage particularly in the areas where there is over and uneconomic production? 
This is not an easy subject to deal with in this chamber. Neither the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  nor any other Minister wants the responsibility of dealing with this aspect of life - the environment in which we are to live and in which our children and our children's children are to reside. Are we to continue to act so blindly, so stupidly and so negatively because we are fearful that we might offend the State governments or that we may be encroaching on their domain. During the first session of the 27th Parliament 1 placed on the notice paper a number of questions relating to air and water pollution. Many of these questions arose from the findings of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution. Not in a single reply did I receive any indication that positive action would be taken to curb, control and rectify the destruction of our environment. The most startling reply, if one could call it that, came from the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  It is recorded in Hansard of 12th June 1970. I asked the Attorney-General: 
Can he say what are the existing laws within each Slate and Commonwealth Territory which control pollution of our (a) atmosphere, (b) waterways and (c) countryside? 
If so, what is in each State and Territory the maximum penalty under existing Acts imposed on (a) an individual and (b) a company for violating pollution provisions? 
Can he give details of prosecutions launched in each of the last 5 years in each State and Commonwealth Territory? 
Has the Government considered the adequacy of existing laws; if so, with what results? 
The Attorney-General's reply, if one can call it that, after several months delay was as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4). In order to supply answers to these questions it would be necessary to conduct extensive research into a variety of Territory, State and municipal laws, none  of  which is under my administration. My Department does not have the resources to undertake that research. I am not aware what consideration is being given to these laws by the relevant Commonwealth and State Ministers. 
In every instance I received negative replies from the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who represents the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in this House. I received also several negative replies from the Prime Minister. 
On 23rd September - only a few weeks ago - I asked the Prime Minister whether he agreed with the view expressed by the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  and reported in the 'Australian Quarterly' about pollution and environment, and also why there was no mention in the Budget of proposals to implement the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution and of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. The Prime Minister brushed aside my question about the attitude of the Minister for the Army and passed the buck to the New South Wales Government about air and water pollution control. I question seriously whether any State government, local government or semi-governmental authority can cope with pollution or police or enforce anti-pollution laws unless it has the complete and full co-operation of the Commonwealth Government. The debt to the Commonwealth of other government agencies is enormous. In the last 2 decades the State debt has increased by 320 per cent, local government debt by more than 700 per cent and the semi-governmental debt by over 900 per cent. The cost of servicing these debts during this period has cost the States 570 per cent, local government 1,400 per cent and semi-government over 2,000 per cent more each year. 
We need leadership from the Commonwealth. The power and wealth of the Commonwealth are needed to deal with monopolies whose activities extend beyond State borders and beyond national boundaries. To give an example of the type of company with which we have to deal I quote from the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 1st May 1970 in which Michael Symons and Gordon Stepto stated: 
Shell Oil Refinery at Clyde admit to blowing about 30 to 35 tons of sulphur dioxide and  2i  tons of alumina catalyst into the air and leaking about SO gallons of oil into Duck River, a tributary of the Parramatta River, every day. 
This area is near my electorate. In fact, it was in my electorate until the last redistribution of electoral boundaries. The article states that  Mr F.  Hixon, the refinery manager, pointed out that the refinery has spent almost $3m on pollution control since 1966 - almost Sim annually. But still the pollution continues and 50 gallons of oil a day leaks into the Parramatta River. It is worth examining the profits of this company. In the last 3 years the Shell group of companies in Australia has made more than $70m in profits. The profit last year alone was $27m. Earlier this year, as part of a question, I asked the Minister for National Development: 
Has his Department made any estimate of the cost of overcoming the problem of pollution in the Sydney area, in particular in the Parramatta River-Duck Creek complex? 
The Minister replied: 
No. State authorities have the responsibility for such studies. 
One may say. what a pathetic attitude. The Commonwealth does not lack authority in its taxing powers. By use of those powers it can persuade these companies to discontinue pollution. One would think that the Parramatta River was on another planet and not the cradle of our nation. 
My time is short. I have been able to deal with only some of the aspects of pollution that confront Sydney. The situation can be repeated in Melbourne, in other capital cities and particularly in Newcastle and in the Wollongong-Port Kembla complex. I should have liked to have developed my argument against the destruction of our natural environment - the destruction of our wonderlands, our beautiful bushlands - by the creation of more farm lands. A few moments ago we heard pathetic cries from the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  but in the last 6 years since Britain first made application to join the European Economic Community his Government has encouraged the development of more farm acreage for fruit growing and for the dairying industry. Both of these industries should be restricted, as they are being restricted in other civilised nations. We are at the stage when we should be limiting our farm lands. 
A proposed biological survey of Australia is reposing somewhere within the bowels of the Department of Education and Science. This proposal is for a survey of all Australian ecosystems and their distributions. The flora and fauna would be accurately mapped. The proposal would allow for the intelligent design of national parks in terms of flora and fauna and would provide essential information on the ecosystems surrounding new mining enterprises. It would enable the authorities to assess the possible extent of any environmental damage resulting from mining enterprises and urban development. The proposal was submitted in 1965 by the Australian Academy of Science, and an updated version was re-submitted in November 1968. The Government has not acted on it. In fact, it has given it no public consideration at all. 
I revert to Sydney's environment, for I want to deal with the Parramatta Valley. In R. P. Murphy's 'Air Pollution and Urban Development', which was published in the journal of the Australian Planning Institute of July 1970, the following appears: 
The State Planning Authority's publication Sydney Region Outline Plan (1968)' indicates that extensive industrial development is planned between Parramatta and Penrith. This is despite the fact that this  is  disastrous from the point of  view  of air pollution. In the autumn and winter a river of cold air 17 miles wide and 300 to 400 feet deep flows east from the mountains to Sydney at a velocity of 5 miles per hour. This occurs on about 100 days a year and causes a temperature inversion which results in the trapping of air pollutants under the inversion. 
P. Murphy suggests that no further industrial expansion should take place on the plains west of Sydney for this reason, although there are short term economic reasons for allowing it. The logic of R. P. Murphy seems to me to be common sense. Let me instance my own experience when I was returning from overseas in 1968. lt was about 8 a.m. and I was keen to take a camera shot of our beautiful harbour, but I was unable to do so. The whole of the Parramatta River Valley from the CamelliaClydeGranvilleSilverwater complex spreading down over the bridge and the harbour was covered by a blanket of low tying cloud or smog. If industries continue to be built west of Parramatta that city, as well as Sydney, is destined to have industrial smog fallout. The challenge must be met in the 1970s. The Commonwealth Government must give the lead not only in Sydney but throughout Australia. We should be guided by a creed. This may not be original, but it is appropriate to the challenge. It may be entitled 'A Creed to Preserve our National Heritage' and it reads: 
The right to clean water - and the duty not to pollute it. 
The right to clean air - and the duty not to befoul it. 
The right to surroundings reasonably free from man-made ugliness  -  and the duty not to blight. 
The right of easy access to places of beauty and tranquility where every family can find recreation and serenity - and the duty to preserve such places clean and unspoiled. 
The right to enjoy plants and animals in their natural habitat - and the duty not' to eliminate them from the face of this earth. 
This is an ideal, but as practical politicians we can make it a reality. What can be done? What is the best way of applying a thoroughly comprehensive national plan for the environment? First, we must establish a Federal environmental bureau which defines the optimum human environment as a series of goats towards which all Federal and State agencies work. Thus grants of money for research and development, and the choice of how resources - minerals, water, urban and rural land, to name a few - are used, will conform to the highest national priorities- 
Secondly, legislation should be passed by the Commonwealth in relation to the ACT and other Territories. These Acts should be comprehensive, cover the whole human, physical and psychological environment and be based on goals already mentioned. These will serve as models for legislation which may be passed by the States. Thirdly, there should be Federal grants to encourage the passage of legislation within the States. The Commonwealth has the power to levy taxes. It can strive for uniformity by levying taxes in accordance with the legislation - for example, special taxes on pollution, tax incentives to encourage pollution control, and if necessary, a tax surcharge to encourage pollution control - and giving grants to States, local and semigovernment authorities, to ensure a system of policing the environmental effort. Fourthly, once legislation has been passed by the Commonwealth and by all the States, a joint Commonwealth and State authority should administer pollution and environment control. Joint co-operation at all levels of government can conquer, control and rectify, and make our Australia beautiful. All I am asking is that this Government, after 2 decades, take some action instead of passing the buck to the States. It is about time this Commonwealth Government gave us some leadership towards these ends. 
asked the Minister for Repatria tion, upon notice: 
Is there a Repatriation Board in each State. 
If so, who are the members of the board in New South Wales. 
Should members of the board sit as a group when examining cases. 
If so, have there been any occasions when cases have been dealt with by individual members only, and, if there have, what  were  the reasons for doing so. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the Slate school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And you petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
On 18th September at Wynyard Park, Sydney, I addressed a large gathering of demonstrators opposing the war in Vietnam. The meeting was in support of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. At the cessation of the speeches the moratorium marchers filed out of the park, made their way to George Street, then south towards the Town Hall. The marchers were only permitted to walk on the footpath. They were not permitted to proceed up George Street beyond King Street. Police diverted them off George Street in an easterly direction up the northern side of King Street. I participated in the march and at the corner of King and George Streets I was manhandled and assaulted by a police constable bearing the number 3136. I was not injured physically in any way. That was not what disturbed me most. It was the manner and attitude of the constable. I sought legal advice and was advised there were two types of action I could follow. One was a civil remedy for assault, a claim for an amount of damages to vindicate the situation. This would involve one's only having to prove the cause on the balance of probabilities. The second was to lay an information of common assault, which is a criminal action. I was advised that the latter was difficult to establish because one has to prove the assault beyond reasonable doubt. Criminal charges, unlike civil cases, have to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. The House will understand my reluctance to follow the first proposal. It is aware of my long struggles in the courts in those types of cases. 
On Monday, 21st September 1970, I took out a summons against Constable 3136. In the court it was interestingto note that the police were not prepared to identify Constable 3136. That was my task but I was able to do so even though he was in plain clothes sitting with about 5 or 6 constables of similar colouring, age and features. The case was heard scattered over 3 days in the Central Court of Petty Sessions before  Mr Lewer,  stipendiary magistrate, and his judgment was given on 5th January 1971. He dismissed the charge of assault and said: 
. The matter is not established beyond reasonable doubt. 

 Mr Day from the New South Wales Crown Solicitor's Office, representing Constable 3136, who was actually being instructed by a senior police officer, sought that I should pay the costs. The magistrate said to counsel for the police: 
I  wish you  would  not press your  request. 
My counsel,  Mr Staples,  argued the principle against forcing me to pay the costs. Counsel for the police insisted and the magistrate ordered me to pay $80 costs, in default 40 days hard labour. I said in court: 'I won't pay the fine - I'll do the hard labour.'  Mr Speaker,  there are certain principles involved. Firstly, I was assaulted by Constable 3136. He knows that he assaulted me even though he denied under oath ever meeting me before the court proceedings. Inspector Beath, the InspectorinCharge of the Petersham Police Station, knows that Constable 3136 assaulted me. It was Inspector Beath who approached a person of some political influence to ask me to pull off. He even advised me how I could conform and not lose face. Inspector Beath's emissary said that the policeman was only a young probationary constable. He said that the constable would not have pushed me around if he had known who I was. There was other evidence available from a retired railway worker, but he was too fearful to give evidence. He feared that the police may press issues against two of his sons. 
Secondly, I refer to the extent to which a. senior - even a very high - officer within the Police Department will lie or allow the issue to be clouded in order to protect the police system. One of  Mr Day's  utterances on behalf of the police was that he called demonstrators against the war in Vietnam cowardly dogs'. It would be interesting to know who granted permission to have such an utterance deleted from the court transcript.  Mr Day's  address makes interesting reading. It clearly identifies the thinking and attitude of a section of the New South 
Wales police. I did not bring this action out of malice against the police. My view was, and still is, that the police should help people, not brutalise them. 
Thirdly, I will not pay the fine. A law which threatens people with punishment if they dare to take their grievances to court is an unjust law. It intimidates people into not making criticism of public officials. The money awarded is called costs but in reality it is a fine. It is not paid to the defendant policeman; it is paid into Consolidated Revenue. The law in this respect reeks of inequality. In our courts of petty sessions, which handle police work, there is no genuine equality. Policeman have more equality than citizens. They have far greater rights than any citizen. If the defendant police officer in my case had charged me with assault and had failed to prove his case he would not have been required to pay my costs; he would not be threatened with a gaol sentence. My case was commenced in the public interest. My refusal to pay the fine is in the public interest. To threaten a man with gaol when he has broken no law is a stupid law, and the sentence of 40 days hard labour for failure to pay a $80 fine is a stupid law. 
Fourthly, my going to gaol is also against the law as it was described by  Mr Lewer,  S.M. I am not challenging his version; legal men may do that if need be.  Mr Lewer,  in his judgment, had this to say: 
. there is no guaranteed right of either free assembly or free speech in common law countries. This very often surprises people who believe their school history books. Nonetheless that is the legal situation. 
I hope that my going to gaol might encourage just a few people to get off their tails. I hope it might stir them long enough to challenge the establishment of such laws. I hope that people will examine and think about such restrictive laws in our socalled free society.  Mr Lewer,  in his judgment, dealt with the definition of an unlawful assembly, andI shall quote that part of the judgment. It is as follows: 
An unlawful assembly is an assembly of three or more persons with intent either to commit a crime . . . 
The magistrate decided not to determine whether the Moratorium march on 18th September was 'an unlawful assembly'. He was content to say that there were inferences available to suggest that it might properly be held  to  be  an  unlawful assembly. But the magistrate did say: 
. I should think beyond any doubt the police are entitled to put an end to a procession, a meeting, or a gathering if they apprehend, notwithstanding its lawful nature . . . 
He  went  on to  say: 
They- meaning the police - may take quite severe steps to set an end to an unlawful assembly. 
In  order to indicate that  I  have not mis interpreted  Mr Lewer's  judgment, with the concurrence  of  honourable members  I  incorporate his judgment in Hansard. 
BENCH. There is no evidence before me that I am prepared to pay any attention to of perjury by anybody, nor can 1 see any suggestion of any criminal conspiracy to pervert the ends of public justice, and if I did I would not need any urging to send the papers to the Attorney-General. 
I have before me an Information exhibited by Thomas Uren against the defendant Constable of Police No. 3136 and this in the event turns out to be a Constable Girardi. The Information, exhibited under the Provisions of Division 2 of Part 4 of the Justices Act, alleges an assault contrary to Section 493 of the Crimes Act on 18th September 1970 at Sydney. 
The first thing to observe 1 should think is this, there are at least two different kinds of remedy for assault. One. a civil remedy for assault, is a tort, and in former times at any event that was the usual means employed when a person who claimed to have been assaulted wished to vindicate his situation, and in the more picturesque language of last century he presented his wounded pride for the salve of damages, but the important thing to notice about that kind of remedy for assault is that the plaintiff may succeed, upon establishing his case, on the balance of the probabilities. The Action here before me is not so simple, the case must be established beyond reasonable doubt, as our criminal lawwisely holds, and before 1 turn to a consideration of the facts, which in my view are very simple, notwithstanding the fairly extravagant addresses with which 1 have been favoured, extravagant and lengthy one might say in one case or another, and I leave them until last. 
Now without going into the matter at any great length it is quite clear that the keeping of public order would not be possible without the exertion from time to time upon the lieges of some degree of physical force, and the most succinct exposition of the situation in relation to this is probably found in Chapter 38 of Wade and Hood-Phillips Constitutional Law', and because some of what is written in that book is very apt for this case I propose to read. At page 525 the learned authors have pointed out there is no guaranteed right of either free assembly or free speech in common law countries. This very often surprises people who believe their school history books. None the less that is the legal situation. The authors go on to speak of Police powers and I now read: 'Nevertheless there remains what has been called the public nuisance aspect which may result from freedom to speak. . . . ' Thenthe learned authors go on to deal with some other interesting aspects of that law there. 
Now it is probably that the definition of an unlawful assembly is well known but in case it is not there is no harm in considering it. Halsbury Third Edition, paragraph 89. 'An unlawful assembly is an assembly of three or more persons with intent either to commit a crime . . . consequence of it'. I should think it trite learning to go on to say that the dispersal of an unlawful assembly is a duty cast by the common law upon every citizen, a fortiori upon every police constable. 
Now I do not want to go back to the 16th century, but there is a fairly modern illustration of the kind of situation the law has thus far, common law I mean, been able to deal with. 1 refer to Duncan v. Jones which is variously reported and may be found in 1936 1 Kings Bench 218. or as I read from the 1935 Aft England Reprints at 710. Now it was proposed by some well intentioned folk in this case to hold a meeting in 9 Head Street, New Crosse, London near the entrance to an unemployed training centre situated in that street and to that end a notice was supplied which read, and it is an interesting cue, this was July 30th 1934, and it still has a typical ring about it, 'Sedition'.'Particulars of the meeting .. . National Unemployment Workers Union". At the foot of the Notice is defined a right of free speech and public meeting. The Police Inspector told Duncan to desist from holding the meeting. Duncan declined so to do and set about giving an oration to the standers-by and was arrested and charged with obstructing  the  police, convicted, and from that he appealed to a Court which consisted of Lord Hewitt the Chief Justice, his Lordship  Mr Justice  Humphries, and his Lordship  Mr Justice  Singleton, and it may be well known that Chief Justice was a well known champion of liberties, civil and otherwise. The Judgment is interesting, especially because it overrules Beattie v. Gilbanks insofar as Beattie  v.  Gilbanks says the police may not step in to prevent breaches of the peace even if they are required to put an end to otherwise lawful activity, which is something not sufficiently understood. 1 do not want to appear to be school masterish about it, but it ought to be understood and there would be less trouble in the city. 
The case may be thought to establish I should think beyond any doubt the police are entitled to put an end to a procession, a meeting, or a gathering if they apprehend, notwithstanding its lawful nature, if they reasonably apprehend that there will be a breach of the peace in consequence of it, a fortiori I should say, they may take quite severe steps to set an end to an unlawful assembly. 1 am not going to decide whether or not the procession from Wynyard Park to somewhere up King Street was an unlawful assembly or not. I am content to say that there are inferences available in the evidence from which it might properly be held if it were necessary that it was an unlawful assembly. I merely point to one or two matters of which there is evidence and they are the cries of 'fascist pigs', and rather delightfully down with imperialism', and 'stop the war'. Superintendent Wells has said from his observations he apprehended a breach of the peace and I should think the Court might properly hold that he was a person of reasonable courage and firmness. As I am saying they are the legal earmarks of the gathering at the corner of King and George Street of an unlawful assembly. 
Now there are one or two other matters of law which I wish to advert to. In situations of this kind of lawless nature without doubt fears and apprehensions are excited and prejudices and emotions aroused and these are in the times when one may not expect equally clear judgments and calm from any of the participants. So that one is not to bring a milligram weight and a chemical balance when weighing up whether the force used was reasonable or not and indeed it has been held that a very large amount of force is permissible if a very large amount of resistance is met with. That wasn't the case here in any event. 
Why I have mentioned these things is this, if 1 accept the Informant's evidence in toto, and 1 do not, but on the other hand it is not to be thought from that that I regard him as a teller of any untruths for I am certain he did his best to tell me the whole truth within the limits of his memory and obviously he would then be making observations, but even if I accept his case in toto rs it fell from him in chief, he has a very considerable legal difficulty ahead of him to establish that what the constable did was an application, by his story, was the application of unreasonable force. Again 1 accept him entirely here. I can safely believe him when he tells me that he was himself proceeding in a most law abiding and untumultous fashion up George Street and through to wherever he went and exhorting those about him to be peaceful and unprovocative. 1 don't think this helps him knowing, if anything, he was part of a body which apparently did wholey prescribe to the same motives and indications. 
Now the facts as they may be defined from the evidence, and I do not intend to go through the whole lot of them, I am not obliged to do it because the Court does not deal with each tiny bil of fact or law argued before it. This is not to be taken that the Court has paid no attention to it, but in brief the inference is this, that when some distance travelling from west to east on the northern boundary of the King Street/George Street intersection he was pushed with no small degree of force back on to the curb by a man whom he says is the defendant, Constable Girardi When he again set off in the same direction about the middle of George Street he was roughly seized by the Constable and later on he was heavily pushed in the back by the Constable and he says that on each of these occasions he was able to identify his assailant as the defendant Constable and to some extent, some limited extent, he is corroborated by a  Mr Anderson.  Concerning him, I reject any suggestion of perjury. 1 have already, I think, pointed out that it is not possible to make detailed observations in crowds in these circumstances, but the gravamen of  Mr Anderson's  corroboration, not really legal corroboration because legal corrobation is defined, as independent evidence of the commission of a crime and that the defendant committed it, and of course  Mr Anderson's  testimony does not implicate the defendant Constable as such. He says a Constable violently, sufficient to say, collided with the Informant with some force. 
Now the defendant's case is that he does not know the Informant, he had not seen him before he came to Court, he did not participate in any such incidents, all he was doing was controlling a very large crowd with a considerable number of other police. 
Superintendent Wells says that he had the stream of demonstrators as they have been called in the case who were proceeding alternately with north and south vehicular traffic in George Street in the same direction as the defendant. He had them under close observation. He claims to have seen the Informant writing on something. He says he did not see what the Informant describes and that he would have had it happened, and it is urged upon me that he was very concerned to make sure that no breaches of the peace occurred. 
As well the defendant calls Sergeant McCoy, Constable Marizouk, and Constable Meredith, all who were assigned to the same duty as the defendant Constable, although they did not have the defendant Constable under observation for the whole of the demonstration, rather thai this activity took place. Each of them says that when they did have the defendant Constable under observation he was not doing anything like thai. Inspector Bottles evidence seems to me of faint relevance and I do not propose to trouble myself to explore that particular blind avenue as 1 see it. I am not concerned with the Informant's conversation with Assistant Commissioner Newman or the content of it, it assists me very little as to credit. Quite clearly there was ample opportunity for all concerned sincerely to be mistaken in what they thought they saw and heard. 
Now there is nothing external in the evidence forthcoming from either side to enable me to say positively either side is not telling the truth. It is true that there is a certain amount of disrelation between the Informant's account and the account of his witness  Mr Anderson  and this is to be expected. 1 am quite sure had I taken the trouble, I could find discrepancies somewhere or other in the testimonies of the various police. In the circumstances it is clearly to be expected. The short point is this that where each of two accounts conflict, that where there is nothing extraneous that induces me to say with some conviction strictly beyond reasonable doubt which version is correct, then I must clearly say that the matter is not established beyond reasonable doubt and that as I understand in the beginning was the onus the prosecution carried, I reiterate very briefly, put at its highest what the Informant sought to establish or part of what he sought to establish, namely the unlawfulness of the assault upon him would be very difficult to establish in the circumstances, but in any event there being no external indicia as to which version, that is to say the Informant's or the Defendant's is correct there must obviously be a reasonable doubt for the Court and the Information is therefore dismissed. 

 Mr Day asks for costs. 

 Mr Staples addresses on costs. 
Defendant ordered to pay costs $80.00. In default 40 days hard labour. Allowed 3 months to pay. 
I ask the House: Where are we headed? Once we step outside of conformism we have no rights - no freedom of speech and no freedom of assembly. One could ask: Are we really free? We have a sickness in our police force in New South Wales. Our law is sick. We should start to examine the question: How sick is bur society? 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the statement made at the University of New South Wales by the Chief Justice of the High Court,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, when he described the slow pace of anti-pollution efforts and warned Australians against putting off the issue any longer? 1 ask: When are we to be given any positive details of action to be taken by the Commonwealth to control the spread of pollution, which is destroying our environment? 
I support a vote of no confidence in this Government. Tonight the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  as he did on 29th January, blamed the trade union movement for the inflation that exists in this country. For too long people have had to struggle from week to week to meet their economic needs. Every worker knows that he has to work long hours of overtime or take a second job to meet his economic commitments, or his wife is forced out to work. In most cases his wife has never been trained or educated to use her full talents so that she may give her best and share in the development of the country and its prosperity. In fact, she is an economic slave. But under this Government for far too long this has been the economic situation in this country. No worker can meet his commitments. That is why there have been strikes from one end of the country to the other of people in all fields of economic thought, whether they be white collar workers, whether they be blue collar workers, whether they be clerks or whether they be technicians. There have been more strikes and more man hours lost in the last few years in this country than ever before in its history and the only thing which can be blamed is the inflationary economic condition of this country. 
I am a little sick and weary of this Government with its laissez-faire policy of blaming all its shortcomings on others. The 
Prime Minister in his statement on 29th January said - and this is the major aspect of his speech - that he wants to tackle government spending, new private investment in plant and equipment and, as his main proposition, non-dwelling building. Why cut back on government spending? There is this great emphasis on cutting back on government spending; but only to the extent of $75m in a Budget comprising many thousands of millions. 
One per cent, as my colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler, has said. Of course, the private sector has applauded this reduction in government spending. One agrees that in certain sections the government can prune its expenditure. I have no doubt we can prune a great deal off our defence expenditure which has increased in the last 6 years from $400m a year to$1, 200m a year because of the myth of fear of the north. We know it has drained the resources out of every Commonwealth and Stale Government department in this country. There should be a reallocation of finance for the government departments. Universities are starved. Education as a whole is in low gear. There is injustice in social services which are a mockery, particularly in regard to the treatment of our pensioners. Hospitals and health services cannot meet their commitments. Local government is crying out for Commonwealth assistance. We require control of pollution in our environment. There is chaos in our cities. Our road services are so poor that we cannot meet the requirements of our automobiles and deaths by road accidents are increasing year by year. This is not a time to curb public expenditure. 
Why does the Government not attack inflation where it begins, within the monopoly and oligopoly sector of our community? This is the sector which really controls the destiny of the men sitting opposite. It presses the button and they act. Let us look at the facts of life. An examination of the most recent report of the Commissioner for Taxation discloses that 76,000 companies made a profit in the year to which it refers. That on the face of it looks like a free enterprise system. But let us look in closer detail. Nine hundred and sixty-nine companies, or1¼ per cent of all the companies, earned 57 per cent of the $3,000m profit made last financial year. A little over I per cent of companies made 57 per cent of the profit. This is where we have to look: this is where inflation begins. It is the monopoly control of this country which is controlling our future development. The remaining 99 per cent of companies shared 43 per cent of the profit. 
It is the monopoly sector which determines prices, lt determines its own future growth and ils own price structure by passing on cost* in the price of goods it manufactures, it determines its priorities whether they are good for this country or not. lt determines its advertising expenditure. Let us examine the fact that this sector spent the greater part of $500m on advertising last year. It determines priorities as to what should be advertised, lt has this 'What is good for us is good for Australia' mentality. No control has been undertaken by the Government. The former Secretary of Defence in the United States,  Mr Wilson,  said when he was  chairman  of directors of General Motors: 'What is good for General Motors is good for America'. Of course, the same monopoly sector here says: 'What is good for the monopolies is good for Australia'. The monopoly sector determines it. It is not elected by the people - the general public: - and it is about time this laissez-faire Government that has been sitting in power for over 20 years and which blames everybody but itself every time a crisis occurs, faced up to its responsibilities. Why has the Government not used its taxation powers to curb this section of industry? There are many powers within the Taxation Act which could assist in curbing and controlling the priorities within the monopoly sector. Power is not lacking in our Taxation Act. 
The Government stands condemned for the treatment of pensioners and people on fixed incomes. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  the former Treasurer, tonight said that the Government stood for justice for everybody. I want to examine this proposition of providing justice for everyone to which this Government referred when it presented its last Budget. In the last Budget the Government gave a flat 10 per cent reduction in taxation to nearly all taxpayers. Let us take a person who receives an annual salary of $9,500, which is what Federal Parlia mentarians and some people in the Public Service and private industry receive. A person who receives S9.500 a year with wife and 2 dependants, plus 10 per cent tax rebate, would benefit by $242 from the taxation reductions granted last year. If we add the 6 per cent increase granted by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the salary of that person was increased to $10,070. He received a gross increase of $570 or a net increase of $340 a year. If we add the $242 which that person received from the taxation reductions granted last August, it means that since the last Budget was presented that person has received a net increase of $582 a year. But pensioners have received an increase of 50c a week or $26 a year. Let us compare that position with the hypocrisy of this Government which says that there is justice for everybody. 
Let me now turn to the social priorities of the young, in particular of the young married couple seeking the security of a home. Let me recall to honourable members a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  Speaking in Brisbane on 22nd January 1968 he said: 
There are achievements in the field of social welfare which I would like to see brought to fruition during my time as Prime Minister. 
He has now been Prime Minister for 3 years, but instead of making progress in the field of social welfare, his Government has regressed. Housing is in a deplorable state. On 29th September last the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  said: 
One of the major aims of our housing contribution in the next 3 years will be to encourage the States to provide decent housing for lower income families who are unable to obtain satisfactory private rental accommodation. 
In order to expose the emptiness of such a proposal, one has only to examine the record of housing achievements. In 1954- 55, 17,900 homes were built by the State housing authorities. Those homes represented 22 per cent of all housing built in that year. Last year State housing authorities built 12,300 homes, or 9.7 per cent of all housing. So much for the Government's so-called good intentions. One gets a little sick of hearing the pious statement that the Government believes in justice for everyone. 
If one examines the position of low cost housing one finds that low cost housing just does not exist. It is a faint dream of what the Chifley Government guaranteed, and that was that no person would pay more than one-fifth of his income for a housing commission dwelling. In this year when the Government says that it believes in justice for everyone we find that if a person rents a housing commission dwelling he has to pay in his rent the interest burden of 6 per cent which is the highest rate in the history of State housing authorities. This would amount to $17.20 per week on a hypothetical cottage costing $10,000, but 1 point out that the average cost of a block of land and a home throughout Australia is $14,000. 
Last year, prior to the action which was taken by the Reserve Bank of Australia in April, the Commonwealth charged housing commissions 5 per cent interest on loans. The increase of 1 per cent in the interest rate meant that a person in a housing commission dwelling had to pay an extra $1.80 per week. Last November all the State Housing Ministers met in Melbourne. Five of the six were Liberal Party or Country Party Ministers. Only one was a Labor Party Minister. They unanimously requested the Commonwealth to reduce the interest rate to 4 per cent. This is the position regarding low cost housing which is supposed to be the Government's major priority. A reduction to 4 per cent in the interest rate would have meant a saving in rent of $3.45 a week for a person living in a housing commission dwelling. Money is needed urgently for housing in the public sector. In 1970 we completed only 144,000 homes throughout Australia. Our requirements are nearer to 175,000, so we are at least 30,000 homes short. So much for the Government's policy of giving top priority to low cost housing. 
Let me turn quickly to the private sector of housing. There is no confidence in this Government because of its action last April when it placed its heavy hand on the home building section of the building industry by increasing the Reserve Bank interest rate. We warned the Government then that it was not the non-dwelling building sector where the danger signs occurred. My colleagues and I warned the Government that there were no real pressures on the home building sector of the building industry, but our warnings were not heeded. Interest rates were increased not only for the home building sector but for all housing. Therefore, the private sector started to inflate its prices. Interest increases did not slow down the commercial sector. It continued to build because it was building for the monopoly sector. Consequently, the value of approvals in the commercial sector increased from $200m in 1969 to $357m in 1970, which is an increase of 78 per cent in one year. 
We on this side of the House called for special consideration to be given to the home building sector. We asked the Government to instruct the Reserve Bank to reduce the interest rates on loans for home building. The Government granted special concessions to the rural sector. Therefore, we claim that ~ the home building sector should receive special consideration. Instead, the Government increased the interest rates which continued the inflationary spiral. I support the no confidence motion against the Government. 
Is the Minister for the Army aware of current concern over pollution of the River Murray? Is pollution increased in any way by the Army camp at Bonegilla? Are the waste disposal arrangements at the camp adequate? Will he consider offering Army assistance to those  authorities responsible for restoring the river to an acceptable level of purity? 
 I rise because I am greatly concerned. This morning during question time the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  said that the South Vietnamese Army was winning the war in Vietnam. I have expressed doubts for a long time as to whether the Thieu-Ky Government has ever really represented the people of South Vietnam. I have given the House details which show that it is a minority government. It is a sectional government to which I have never given support. I recognise that there are elements of nationalism in the Saigon Government which are worthy of election by the people and I am quite sure that had the Vietnamese been allowed to govern their own affairs they would have shared power in a coalition with other elements, whether they, had been the National Liberation Front, the [Buddhists or other political parties opposed to United States involvement in their country. I understand from information I received this afternoon that for the first time the United States is likely to use tactical nuclear weapons in the northern part of South Vietnam and the southern part of Laos to obliterate the Ho Chi Minh trail. Clear evidence is now being brought forward to show that the area I have described is being systematically and thoroughly cleared of all people. 
Certain men in the United States have suggested for years that the people of North Vietnam should be bombed back to the Stone Age. I am fearful that the people who have advocated this will now get the upper hand. The only problem is that the bombing is not calculated to decide who will win the war or who will lose it. I believe the reason for the bombing is a political one linked to the primaries to be conducted to choose the nominee for the Republican Party at the next Presidential election. The real issue is that this terrible action could be committed on man by man. We already know that because of the madness of this war more than l.S million Vietnamese have died. We know that more bombs have been dropped on Vietnam than were dropped on the Axis powers during the whole of the Second World War. The United States says that it did this to end the war. Only recently it invaded Cambodia to end the war. Then it invaded Laos to end the war. 
I would now like to mention something which was never broadcast on Australian news services. Only a few days ago the British Broadcasting Corporation announced in its world news service that the whole concept of the Vietnamisation policy is under threat. I heard this report on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's news service at 7.5 a.m. when the 
ABC broadcasts the BBC world news but it was not repeated in the general ABC reports during the day. The BBC stated that in fact it was doubtful whether the Vietnamese could look after their own affairs because their crack regiments such as the Rangers which drove into Laos were being annihilated by the North Vietnamese. It was doubtful whether they could in fact defend themselves. I say these things in great sorrow. War - any type of war - is a bloody stupid affair. War is a stupid affair. Very few of us have seen nuclear war or atomic war. I am one of the few who has seen an atomic bomb exploded. I did not know what it was at the time. As the crow flies, I was 50 miles away from Nagasaki as a prisoner of war in Japan. I will never forget the discolouration of the sky on that day. If the nuclear weapons that are available today had been used then and if I had been in the same place, I would have been annihilated. 1 am not saying that these 2 types of deadly weapons will be used. But the same deadly threat is present. The weapons to which I refer are called tactical nuclear weapons. The Americans will poison the area. They will stop the North Vietnamese penetrating South Vietnam. What the Americans will do is poison the whole of the area of the northern part of South Vietnam with nuclear tactical weapons. If the Americans commit this crime against man, I say that  President  Nixon and his Republican administration are mad. Every time I rise to talk on this subject I will brand him as a mad man. 1 will so brand any man who sniggers and smiles at the thought of anyone using nuclear weapons, whether they be used to poison the atmosphere or clean out an area where military action is taking place. 
Let us recall the mentality of the United States administration. It has this mania, lt had what was called the 'McNamara Line'. This involved the electrification of certain areas of Vietnam. The purpose of electrification was to stop the North Vietnamese penetrating South Vietnam. The Americans have tried everything to stop the North Vietnamese penetrating this area, but they have not been successful. Even bearing in mind all the sins of this administration, my thought at this moment is that this morning I wished that what the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  said was true, that is, that the South Vietnamese Ky-Thieu clique was winning the war. If that was the position, the madness and stupidity strongly in evidence in Vietnam could not occur. If this happened, there would not be the slightest possibility that it would occur. But I am afraid and even fearful that what I have foreshadowed will occur. 
I hope that before such a disaster happens - and this is the reason why I am raising this matter today,  Mr Speaker  - heed will be taken of the plea that I make. In the name of humanity, I ask the Australian Government to speak to its American allies and to oppose such action. Never has the Australian Government openly criticised the action of the Americans. Never has it said anything in opposition to the bombing of North Vietnam. In fact, time and time again, Government members have offered their encouragement even to the bombing of Haiphong harbour. Among those members were some who are at present in the Ministry. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is sitting at the table. In fairness to him, I point out that he brought fresh thought to his side of the House about the war in Vietnam and South East Asia as a whole. This is on record in the Melbourne 'Herald' in which his words appear. There was something refreshing about his reassessment. I am not trying to use this speech as propaganda. I could be wrong; I hope that I am wrong. I ask honourable members to give a bit of thought to what I have said. If honourable members opposite think the way I do, they should speak up. Even though the Minister for Customs and Excise is only a junior Minister, he should speak up if his thoughts agree with mine. We should speak against this Government which has not had the courage to stand up for the people of Vietnam and to try to put an end to this war. 
askedthe Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Is the Minister able to say whether the Stale Housing Ministers met in Melbourne in November 1970; 
It so, did they unanimously request the Commonwealth Government to reduce interest rates from 6 per cent to 4 per cent; 
Has the Commonwealth Government examined this request; if so, with what result. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the 'West Australian' of 21st January 1971 that officials of bis Department were examining a device developed by  Mr L.  Podheczky which claims to reduce carbon monoxide from motor cars by thirty times. 
If so, what were the results of these tests with regard to emissions of hydrocarbons, oxides of nitrogen and particulates as well as carbon monoxide. 
Does his Department regularly watch for and test new items which are designed to lower pollution problems caused by motor cars. 
Has the Government given any grants to aid research and development of items designed to lower air pollution caused by cars, such as the steam engine developed by Prichard in Melbourne or the device developed by  Mr Duncan  McWade. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to recent articles appearing in the 'Canberra Times' on the sale in Australia of pest strips containing the insecticide Dichlorvos (DDVP). 
Has his attention also been drawn to a TV advertisement for a product containing 0.37 per cent Dichlorvos in which a well-known cooking expert sprays food with the product. 
Is he able to say in what countries the use of these pest strips has been banned or subjected to very rigid control, if so, can he say what controls on their use are stipulated. 
What evidence published in reputable scientific journals indicates that the relase of Dichlorvos vapour in a closed environment and over a long period is safe. 
Has his attention been drawn to experiments performed in an Italian hospital where all patients  had  a depressed  level  of plasma cholinesterase and those with liver damage took 3 weeks to recover and also to similar work in the United States of America and Japan. 
Has his attention also been drawn to recent data published by Lofroth showing that Dichlorvos in a test tube can alter the structure of DNA, the material carrying genetic coding. 
Does the government agree that the burden of proof of safety should rest with those organisations wishing to sell pest strips impregnated with Dichlorvos. 
What steps has the government taken to ensure that Australians are protected from inhaling this compound of unproven safety. 
 I give notice that, at the next sitting,I shall move: 
That the City Areas Lease Ordinance 1970 (No. 45 of 1970) and the Leases (Special Purposes) Ordinance 1970 (No. 46 of 1970), made under the Seat of Government Administration Act 1910-1970, be disallowed. 
I give notice furtherthat, at the next sitting, I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that the matter of land tenure and land administration, planning and development in the Australian Capital Territory should be referred by the Minister for the Interior to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory for examination and report. 
1 direct a question to the Prime Minister. He will be aware that the latest report of the Commissioner of Taxation has revealed that a little more than 1 per cent of companies - the monopoly or oligopoly sector - accounted for more than 57 per cent of company profits. Will he agree that it is this sector which is mainly responsible for the inflation in our community? ls he aware that this sector includes in the cost of goods it manufactures or distributes a type of indirect tax which allows for future growth as welt as an excessive profit? What action does his Government intend to take to curb this sector of industry and check inflation? 

 - Mr Speaker, yesterday the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  introduced in this House the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill which further restricts- 
I hope that the House will excuse me for not answering the dreary monologue of the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in regard to 2 decades of negativeness. I support the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  In particular I emphasise the importance of action by the Commonwealth Government to conquer, control and rectify pollution now. I listened to the young pompous  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  speaking at the luncheon given today in honour of Prince Philip. He said that he was shocked when Prince Charles revealed the polluted condition of one of our beaches in Port Phillip Bay. The arrogance and stupidity of this man! Is he not aware that for years shit, human excreta, has been washed on Sydney's major beaches both north and south of the harbour due to inadequate treatment? Many Sydney beaches have had to be closed to human habitation. It is still a fact of life and will continue to be so until the Commonwealth makes grants available to overcome the problem. lias he not smelt the stench of rivers like the Parramatta, Georges and Lane Cove? 
I speak not only as a member of this Federal House but as a member of the human race. I want to deal with some philosophical aspects of our environment. Some time ago Backminster Fuller first introduced the term 'spaceship earth'. The real problem is whether sufficient numbers of men will realise that they are needed on a spaceship in time to save it. As in an Apollo space craft, we are locked in a limited space with limited resources of energy, air, water and nutriments. The space craft has a limited capacity to renew these resources of energy, air, water and nutriments. At the moment the situation is equivalent to 11 astronauts crammed into an Apollo capsule designed to hold 3 people, and that is the predicament of spaceship earth. At the end of this century there will be 21 in the same spaceship. We have in our capsule many other species who are fellow travellers. Each man in spaceship earth produces waste of natural origin, but in addition he adds millions of tons of all sorts of man-made products to the oceans and the atmosphere, which he still regards as cesspools for his waste. U Thant has stated: 
The drama of Apollo 13 also gave us an exhibition on a small scale of what might easily become the problem of Spaceship Garth. The problem in those agonising days of Apollo I3's return from the moon was basically the uncertain balance between the capacity of the spaceship to support life and the demands made on it by its inhabitants. Until recently, the earth could, without difficulty, meet the needs of its passengers and could also absorb the various waste products which they produced. But now we face a rapidly increasing imbalance between the life-sustaining systems of the earth and the demands - industrial, agricultural, technological and demographic - which its inhabitants put upon it. This is an unprecedented challenge to all earth-people here and now. If we fail to meet that challenge, it could become an unthinkable disaster for our children. 
It is accepted by reasonable men that the task of fighting pollution and preserving the environment cannot be met by our State governments, which are in chaos in every department. Our national Parliament and Government have to lead us - not hide or pass the buck - out of this chaos. 
I do not want to spend time in detailing the many examples of the increasing environmental degradation. They are becoming more numerous and better known. All States in Australia are now setting up organisations to co-ordinate anti-pollution, measures. The only problem is that they have not the finance to meet their commitments. There are significant differences between the various States and because of this there is a real danger the States will compete with each other for industry by being more lenient than the next on pollution control. Uniformity, therefore, is essential. If present Commonwealth inaction continues for much longer the people in the Territories under the control of the Commonwealth will bc severely discriminated against compared with their counterparts in the States as no clean air or water Bills affecting Commonwealth Territories have been passed. 
The proposed Office of Environment can act in 2 main ways: Firstly, by developing programmes designed to rectify past mistakes; secondly, by developing programmes which will institute sound planning and resource management to prevent the mistakes being made in the future. To rectify past mistakes, the need in the short run is for money - 1 emphasise that it is the Commonwealth which has the financial resources - together with the institution of Federal guidelines to cover Commonwealth Territories, thus ensuring uniformity. The second challenge is larger and is separated into 3 main areas - Federal action based on international agreements: Federal action based on the legislative power of the Commonwealth; and Federal action to coordinate functions which are constitutionally the responsibility of the States. 
International agreements could include agreements about conservation of marine species and protection of the sea from pollution: export and import policies which have impacts on the environment or which protect endangered species of flora and fauna; and presentation of cases to international conferences. Federal action based on the legislative power of the Commonwealth could include legislation for Commonwealth Territories, for areas of the continental shelf, for acts by departments under Commonwealth control such as the Postmaster-General's Department and for various projects of national development. 
There are many ways in which the Commonwealth can act as a co-ordinator. Firstly, the Commonwealth has taxation powers which could enable it to institute a pollution tax on items which are environmentally undesirable. Such funds could be used to provide grants to the States to police and regulate anti-pollution measures and to purchase land for dedication as national parks. 
The Office of the Environment could define the optimum human environment as a series of goals towards which all Federal and Stale agencies work. Grants of money for research and development and the choice of how resources - minerals, water, urban and rural land, to name a few - are used, should conform to the highest national priorities. Legislation could be passed by the Commonwealth in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and other Territories. These Acts could be comprehensive, cover the whole human physical, and psychological environment and be based on goals already mentioned. These could serve as models for legislation which may be passed by the Stales. There should be Federal grants to encourage the passage of legislation within the States. The States cannot pass legislation unless they have the financial resources. The Commonwealth Government has to make finance available to meet these commitments. 
The Commonwealth has power to levy taxes, lt could strive for uniformity by levying taxes in accordance with the legislation - for example, special taxes on pollution, tax incentives to encourage pollution control and, if necessary, a tax surcharge to encourage pollution control and to give grants to the Stales, local and semigovernmental authorities to ensure a system of policing the environmental effort. Once legislation has been passed by the Commonwealth and by all the States a joint Commonwealth and State authority should administer pollution and environmental control. Joint co-operation on all levels of government can conquer, control, rectify and make Australia beautiful. It is about time, after 2 decades of negativeness, that this Government started to act. 
Since November 1964, when the National Service Act was introduced, more than 43,000 young men . have failed to register and more than 23,000 explanations have been accepted. At present, more than 10,000 are under investigation. Although a large number of young men have failed to register only a small handful have been gaoled. The Government has prosecuted only a few. The Government has been particularly careful not to broaden the application of punitive action which would create dissension among a large section of people. Had the Government enforced the law by prosecuting more than 40,000 men there would have been a greater outcry. 1 wish to speak on behalf of one of the few men who have been prosecuted. His name is Geoff Mullins and he is at present in Berrima Gaol. I support this young man of great moral courage. The callousness of this Government disturbs me. Not one member of the Government or supporter of the Government in this House has shown any concern about the conscription of young men to the bottomless pit of 
Vietnam. Not one of them has ever shown concern about our involvement in Vietnam - unlike the position in the United States of America, where both Democrats and Republicans are totally opposed to the war and where there is now a majority in the Senate opposed to America's participation in this conflict. Thirty years ago 1, with other honourable members from both sides of the House, went to war to fight Fascism. Today, the majority in this House - the Government of the country - is supporting Fascist forces in Vietnam. This Government is supporting governments that are committing crimes equal to the crimes committed by the Nazis in the Second World War. 
Is it any wonder that young people last Monday week in the Special Federal Court in Sydney showed contempt for that Court? They showed contempt because they were contemptuous of the Act that was being administered in the Court. They were showing contempt for the National Service Act and for Australia's involvement in Vietnam. I attended the court and spoke to young Geoff Mullins before he went into court. 1 found him to be a young man of sound attitudes and firm convictions. He made his position clear; he is not a conscientious objector. He would fight to defend his country, but he said that he would not fight in Vietnam. One cannot help but admire the courage of this man in challenging the whole Establishment. Imagine this young man,- standing against the Establishment, against power and privilege in this country. As 1 told a Sydney university gathering last week, I have asked myself a thousand times: Uren, would you have had the courage, when you were the same age- as this young man, to stand up against the Establishment and say that you would not go. to such an immoral war as the war in Vietnam, which this Government is forcing . young men to do?' When a young man of the calibre of Geoff Mullins has the courage to stand up against the Establishment, I stand in this Parliament and give him my complete moral, physical, financial and every other support. 
Geoff Mullins has been gaoled for 2 years. This young man is a science graduate of the University of New. South Wales and must rot in a gaol for 2 years because of the stupidity and the callousness of the 
Government. In court he was asked whether he wished to examine the young witness from the Department of Labour and National Service. He replied: 'No, I am only sorry for him'. The second witness - a much older gentleman - was the informant on behalf of the Department, and once again Mullins was asked whether he wished to ask any questions of the witness. He shocked the court when he said: 'What questions would you ask anyone in a Nazi court?' These are challenging words, one might say, in this country, and the magistrate had them struck from the record. However, Mullins went further and said to the magistrate: 'You know that this is a Fascist court'. An emotional woman at the back of the court called out: 'Why do you not stop sending our boys to gaol?' Magistrate Annabel said: 'Lady, I have not sent anyone to gaol'. It appeared that the magistrate was embarrassed by the terms of the vicious Act that he had to administer. 

 Mr Mullins was taken from the court to Long Bay Gaol. He refused to obey instructions there and was kept in a cell with 3 criminals. There were no proper toilet facilities in the cell and he had to use a bucket when he wanted to urinate or pass excreta. In the 3 days to last Thursday when I spoke at the University of Sydney he had not showered or bathed. That is an indication of the way in which this young man was being treated. It is true that he has been disobedient but surely he should not be treated in that way. I have been informed now that he has been transferred to Berrima Gaol. 
He said that he was not a conscientious objector but that he was opposed to the war in Vietnam. The Government knows the horrible record that both it and the United States have in Vietnam. They know that the war in Vietnam is crumbling beneath their feat. They know that public opinion in this country and in the United States is against involvement in the Vietnam war. The Australian Government knows that the United States will withdraw from Vietnam and that we have to get our men out. It is about time that this Government started to act sanely and to treat our young men with some civility and decency and not gaol them for 2 years, particularly when they are young men of the calibre of  Mr Mullins.  He will not try to get out of goal on medical grounds. He is there and he will follow a course of civil disobedience. I hope that the Government is proud that it is trying to crush this young man. Any honourable member on the Government side who met this young man would be impressed by his balance and soundness and would be proud that he is a fellow Australian who has the moral courage to stand up for his principles. 
 I move: 
That the City Area Leases Ordinance 1970 (No. 45 of 1970), and the Leases (Special Purposes) Ordinance 1970 (No. 46 of 1970), made under the Scat of Government (Administration) Act 1910- 1970, be disallowed. 
The Commonwealth Parliament is, by virtue of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act, the chief administrative authority for the Australian Capital Territory. Under the provisions of that Act Territory ordinances, which come into effect from the date of their promulgation, may be debated and disallowed if either House of Parliament so chooses at any time during the first 15 days of sittings in a session. The motion I have moved, notice of which was given within the statutory limit of 15 days, is that this House should disallow the City Area Leases Ordinance 1970 (No. 45 of 1970) and the Leases (Special Purposes) Ordinance 1970 (No. 46 of 1970). There are 3 other ordinances - No. 47, No. 49 and No. 50  -  which are machinery ordinances. I am not seeking the disallowance of these ordinances but in the event of the House supporting my motion of disallowance of Ordinance No. 45 and Ordinance No. 46 I will seek to have those ordinances examined. I will also move at a later hour a motion standing in my name: 
That this House is of the opinion that the matter of land tenure and land administration, planning and development in the Australian Capital Territory should be referred by the Minister for the Interior to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory for examination and report. 
I remind honourable members that all land within the city area of the Territory is Commonwealth owned land. The city area is, of course, Civic Centre and all the suburbs. Land within that area is disposed of under one or other of the leasing ordinances. I caution honourable members and seek them to give thoughtful consideration  -  I stress the words 'thoughtful consideration' - before they decide how to vote on this motion. The decision of the Government to alter by way of ordinance the Canberra leasehold system was made without inquiry or public investigation. It arose out of a cheap political gimmick. The former Prime Minister, now the 
Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  spoke on 13th May 1970 in support of the Liberal Party candidate in the Australian Capital Territory by-election. The report in the 'Canberra Times' of 14th May 1970 reads: 
Land rents and reappraisements of land values in Canberra would be eliminated at the end of this year, but higher rates would have to be paid. 

 Mr Gorton also announced that a reserve price, which would cover the cost of subdividing land and providing services, would be introduced at auctions. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  the Government and honourable members opposite, to examine this matter more closely, to set politics apart and divorce them from their thoughts on this question. If they examine the early discussions on land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory they will find that in the beginning there was unanimity on all sides of politics on this question. In the beginning there was complete unanimity in support of a leasehold system. I want to quote some extracts from a very thoughtful contribution by Frank Brennan in his book Canberra in Crisis'. At pages 203 and 204 he quotes  Dr Max  Neutze, head of the Australian National University Urban Research Unit, Research School of Social Sciences, who, having discussed these proposals, concluded: 
It seems that only a lack of understanding can explain the fact that State politicians, who claim they are short of resources to service their own urban areas, are not protesting a proposal to hand over an equity worth over $100m to the lessees in Canberra. 
Increased levels of property rates on the unimproved value of sites will not adequately replace land rents, as a rate is usually 'struck' to cover the cost of community services. 
We seem to have forgotten what the rents are for - a strange situation when we consider the attention it was given in the early years of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
The Commonwealth as ground landlord and a» land developer seems to be entitled to expect that the value of ils equity will rise in proportion to the market value of the sites it owns, which has nothing to do with the cost of municipal-type services. 

 Mr Brennan went on to say in support of  his argument: 
The Canberra leasehold system may survive as a fiction, but it will be meaningless. There would be no difficulty in devising legislation which converted this fictional leasehold into freehold and retaining all the useful planning controls. Future generations will demand the freehold - they will certainly have paid for it - but whether they get it or not is really of little consequence. For they will already have freehold in fact, if not in law. 
Under these proposals the Government surrenders, forfeits, abandons and gives away its right and duty to . . . secure for the Commonwealth the growing and permanent source of revenue from the State earned increment in the value of land which comes silently from the mere accretion of population and from the exercise of the power of government. 
As King O'Malley, a great Labor Party member of long ago, saw it: 
Every dollar spent by the people of Australia in the erection of that (federal) capital will create an unearned increment in the property for miles around. . . . The question now 13, are the people of Australia prepared to spend thousands and thousands, yea, millions and then lose the benefit of their expenditure? I say the unearned increment created by the expenditure of the people's money belongs to the people. 
The decision was made as one fires  from  the hip - without thinking it through. How often has that been done by the previous Prime Minister. The Opposition seeks time to examine this proposition. It seeks time to have a full inquiry. Let me quote further a distinguished public servant.  Sir Ronald  East, in an article in the Melbourne 'Age' of 6th March 1971 which in part reads: 
No layman or even top level business administrator could rend the ordinances through several times and understand their whole effect. 
One clause, however, would stop him in his tracks - it would shock anyone. It is on page 15 of the City Area Ordinance No. 45 of !970, dated 15th December 1970. It reads: 
The rent under a lease . . . shall be 5 cents per annum to be paid if and when demanded by the Minister.' 
This is a renewal of the peppercorn rental of medieval English law, often used to make legal the transfer of property. 1 have in my possession just such a document giving possession of a farm in England to a beneficiary under a will, the consideration being the payment of 'one peppercorn', if the same shall be lawfully demanded. The letter went on to say: 
The tricky use of ordinances to circumvent the declared intention of Parliament in regard  to  payment for the occupation of Crown land at Canberra shows that the Government holds Parliament in contempt. It certainly makes a farce  of  democracy. 
The Commonwealth has spent thousands of millions of dollars of taxpayers' money in transforming Canberra from an open prairie land into the national capital. Every one of us is proud of the capital which has been developed. This expenditure has given to Canberra lands a new value, an assured value, an ever-increasing value. The bureaucracy has decreed that the Commonwealth  return from its own land is to be 5c a year if and when demanded. What a gross insult to the Australian taxpayers who have, financed the building of Canberra. 
We would fail in our trust if we did not disallow these ordinances. Let us examine arguments which have been used to explain these changes. One argument is that, by abolishing land rent and instituting a reserve price to be paid upon sale of a block the Commonwealth is assured ot receiving an immediate return of its development costs. This argument lends weight to the charge that all is not well with the administration of Canberra's leasehold system. The mere idea that the Commonwealth should receive an immediate repayment of its development costs is absurd. The services attached to the land remain forever the property of the Commonwealth - assets of the Commonwealth - which give extra value to the land and which produce dividends for the Commonwealth in the form of land rent, lt was the development costs on land in the proposed Federal Territory which Edmund Barton, our first Prime Minister, referred to as a 'gilt edged investment' which would produce for the Commonwealth in the form of land rent a fund which would never be disturbed'. We are now being asked to distribute this fund - or rather we are being asked to abolish it. 
All political parties supported the idea that the Commonwealth should own all land in the Federal Territory and establish a system of leasehold tenure. It was a universal demand. The practical effect of the scheme of which these ordinances are part is that the Canberra leasehold system is turned upside down. Land rent is to be abolished and the only remaining land charges are rates payable for municipal services. The abolition of land rent destroys the concept of tenancy and the prerogative of the Commonwealth to collect revenue by right of ownership. A central aim behind these fundamental changes to Canberra's leasehold system is that socalled rationalised municipal accounts can be prepared and thus remove the need for land rent. What stupidity. The Opposition does not dispute that rationalised municipal accounts may be necessary but it denies that their preparation can justify the abolition of land rent. The Commonwealththat means you and me, the people of the Commonwealth - owns this land and it should not surrender its right to collect rents related to the value of the land. May 1 quote what economist Colin Clark said in the 'Canberra News' of 26th March. He said: 
While it is undoubtedly desirable that the municipal accounts for Canberra should be placed on a rational basis, and costs covered by rates, this certainly does not justify what is in effect a wholesale gift of public money at the expense of every taxpayer in Australia. 
The Opposition's purpose in inviting the House to disallow these ordinances - legislation by bureaucracy; and I ask honourable members to think not as Party hacks but as individuals - is to enable the House to assert its rightful role and refer the whole question to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory for a full and thorough investigation. I ask the Government why it is using the bureaucracy? Why is it using these ordinances without a full and thorough investigation? We want to know the weaknesses of the ordinances. 
The Opposition is aware that problems and difficulties have arisen in the operation and administration of the Canberra leasehold system. We do not deny that anomalies in rent payment have developed between leases largely because of reappraisal of values at 20-year intervals. We seek an inquiry to rectify the weaknesses in the system. There has been wide discussion within Canberra. An editorial in the Canberra Times' of 1 1th March 1971 said: 
The charge can be fairly made that the administration of the Australian Capital Territory has lost sight, in the pursuance of administrative and accounting simplification, of the very notion upon which the revolutionary experiment of leasehold urban development was undertaken in Canberra early this century. The changes in land charges introduced on 1st January were made in inexcusable ignorance of the profound social and economic implications of the concept of leasehold as opposed to freehold. 
The editorial continued: 
The ultimate tragedy is that this can be achieved through the inept tampering of a shortsighted bureaucracy and with hardly a word said in Parliament. 
I commend that editorial in the Canberra Times'. It is a thoughtful editorial. There has been wide discussion in Canberra on this subject. We must keep in mind that this land belongs not only to the people of Canberra but also to the people throughout the length and breadth of Australia. We hope that Canberra can be used as a blueprint for the building of other cities throughout Australia. We hope that similar opportunities can be given to people elsewhere in Australia. The tampering with the present system without full and proper investigation is not in the best interests of this House, not in the best interests of democracy and not in the best interests of the nation. The Opposition seeks the disallowance of the ordinance, which will turn back the clock in Canberra. 
Let us have an inquiry. Let us cease playing power politics. A national capital's future is at stake. 1 emphasise that we are all proud of Canberra. At present it belongs to us all. We are all shareholders. If these ordinances remain we are handing over, giving away, much of this Territory. In many ways we will be handing it over to big industrial concerns and big financial concerns which do not even reside here. They are the absentee landlords, particularly of valuable sites in Civic Centre. Canberra is our investment. Let us share in Canberra's future prosperity. I do not want to sound a sour note but I give an undertaking as Labor's spokesman in respect of land tenure that one of the first acts of a Federal Labor administration after the next Federal elections will be to have a thorough investigation into all aspects of land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory. But let us not wait: Let us have the investigation now. I ask honourable members to disallow these ordinances by supporting my motion. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
When does he expect lo receive the Report of the Interim Council of the Australian Institute of Marine Science. 
Will the recently announced cut-back in Government spending -cause any delay in the implementation of the  recommendations of the Interim Council. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How many dwellings would be required to overcome the housing backlog as it stood at 30th June 1970. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the estimated interest liability on outstanding home loans during each of the last 5 years. 
I will make my remarks brief but they will be direct.  1  hope that you do not take them as being personal,  Mr Speaker.  I believe they are very serious, otherwise I would not have risen in my place to make these remarks. Firstly, I want to know really why I got under your skin yesterday,  Mr Speaker,  because I have been far more difficult on many other occasions. Why did you lose control and suspend me from the House? Was it because of your frame of mind? Was it because I refused your request on 6th April that I seek legal advice about the possibility of my going to prison? You will recall that I stated to you on 6th April that I thought the  Clerk  had given a ruling, and you replied that any decision upon whether there had been a criminal or civil offence would be a decision of the chamber magistrate who tried the case. I immediately went to the  Clerk  of the House and sought from him the details. He said that in his opinion it was a matter for the Privileges Committee to determine whether it was a civil or criminal case. 
Why I am deeply concerned with your frame of mind yesterday is that if it were a civil case no letter such as the letter which came to this House and which was read out by you would have been permitted, but if it were a criminal case such a letter could have been read out. I am not giving my opinion but that of one of the officers of this House.  1  was advised that a letter such as the one from the  Clerk  of the Central Court of Petty Sessions which you read out to the House would be sent only in the event of a criminal case. 
I would like to know whether it was you who sought that letter, whether the court officials sent it voluntarily and whether, when you received that letter you sought permission or advice from the officers or Clerks of this House on whether or not you would be following the correct procedure in reading the letter to the House. By reading out that letter you acknowledged that the action on which I was imprisoned was an action involving a criminal offence. Therefore, if you did this without advice I believe you acted out of malice. I am making the serious charge of malice. Frankly, I did not claim privilege when I made my decision in court; when I went to gaol it was for a principle; and  1  am not trying to hide under privilege now. But the question we are dealing with now is whether you as  Speaker  displayed personal malice against me.  Mr Speaker,  I believe that there are certain questions you should answer before this vote is taken. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)-  Mr Speaker,  ifI may make a personal explanation, let me make it perfectly clear that on 6th April I did not go to you; you called me over, and you asked whether I had sought legal advice. You said that I should seek legal advice.I then repeated that I thought the Clerks of the House had more or less decided what the position was. You then repeated that it was for the magistrate to determine whether it was a criminal or civil case. I am not going to say any more. 
I then went to the  Clerk  of the House. I did not approach you; you called me over. That is the position. I still do not know whether in reading out that letter you were acting on the advice of the officers of this House. 
Very well.I apologise on that. I take it that the Clerks accepted that it was a criminal case, although it seems to me that there is a double standard here, because every officer from whom I have sought information has been so confused. This was a borderline case and they did not know whether it was a civil case or a criminal case. Even though they were in doubt, it seems that they advised you that they would take the action as a criminal action. ThereforeI think that what happened was not in the best interests of the Parliament. 
Question put - 
That the question be now put. 
Tht House divided.  (Mr Speaker - Hon. Sir William Aston 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I enter the debate at this late hour although at one time I thought that I would not have been able to make a contribution to it. I would still have been in one of  Her  Majesty's prisons had it not been for a foolish individual. But be that as it may, here I am, and for better or for worse I want to contribute a few comments to this debate. The Bill represents a further restriction on the individual rights and freedoms of persons. It does not in any way provide for greater extension protection of freedom. The Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is sitting at the  table, is a man of some distinction in the law. He knows, as does the Government, that this legislation is not necessary. Existing Acts of Parliament cover all aspects provided for in this legislation which I brand as a political stunt. Police offences ordinances and the Crimes Act cover all breaches of the law on Commonwealth territory. Commonwealth property is protected under the Crimes Act and the common law covers the question of trespass. In all States, particularly New South Wales and Victoria, vicious - and I stress that word - Summary Offences Acts can be invoked. The Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Acf passed by the Commonwealth Parliament in November 1970 cleared up all doubts about the application of State laws in Commonwealth premises outside of Commonwealth territories. I challenge the Attorney-General to say whether that statement is false. I thank the Attorney-General for indicating that my contention is correct. I challenge the Government to prove that there is not existing legislation which covers ali aspects provided for in this Bill. 
The Bill is a political stunt - a gimmick. What we need in Australia is more freedom, not less freedom. One does not realise the limited freedoms that we possess until one steps outside of conformity. People believe that we should protect minority rights and should protect certain individuals. We believe that Australia is a free society but on 5th January  Mr Lewer,  in the Central Court of Petty Sessions, said: 
There is no guaranteed right of either free assembly or free speech in common law countries. This very often surprises people who believe their school history books. Nonetheless that is the legal situation. 

 Mr Lewer gave as his authority chapter 38 of Wade and Hood-Phillips 'Constitutional Law' at page 525. In other words the socalled cherished right of freedom of assembly and freedom of speech, which is taught in Australian schools, is utter hypocrisy. It does not exist in fact: It exists only if one conforms. Recently 1 spoke to students at the University of Sydney. 1 was able to explain to them that although their freedoms were limited within the university once they stepped outside the boundaries of the university grounds their freedoms were far more restricted - they had no freedoms outside. If they wanted to demonstrate against the war in Vietnam or against visitors from a country which supported apartheid or if they wanted to support farmers who were seeking economic justice or old age pensioners they had no freedom of assembly and no freedom of speech. They are second class citizens. 
What is an unlawful assembly? It has been defined as: 
An unlawful assembly is an assembly of 3 or more persons with intent either to commit ' a crime . . . 
This definition was used in connection with a demonstration which I attended. I make no excuses; 1 am a demonstrator, I believe that democracy does not function only in the parliamentary system. I have respect for the parliamentary system but I have respect also for the freedom of the individual. I believe that one does not elect a member of Parliament every 3 years and remain dormant between elections. In a free society people should function, should criticise, should demonstrate, should express their indignation, should express their attitudes and should have the right of freedom of assembly. I place on record that although I support the parliamentary system 1 participate as a demonstrator and 1 encourage people to express their individual indignation against what they believe to be unjust laws. I have always stressed, although I have not lectured. the manner in which people should demonstrate. I do not suggest that they .should demonstrate as I demonstrate. I support demonstrations in a peaceful manner, I loathe violence. I believe that violence is a weapon of the establishment, of the few and privileged, and it is not the right of people who seek to bring about some freer and more open society. 
As I have said, an unlawful assembly is an assembly of 3 or more persons with intent to commit a crime. But what is intent? One could be in a demonstration of 10,000 people of whom 9,500 might be peaceful and the other 500 have certain agitations and break the law. On 5th January  Mr Lewer,  the magistrate, said that it was of no consolation to the people who were demonstrating peacefully if they were associated with people who were acting unlawfully because the assembly as a whole could be regarded as an unlawful assembly. Evidence could be presented that people were acting unlawfully and consequently even though the great majority of persons were lawful and a small minority unlawful, the assembly could be deemed to be an unlawful assembly. The magistrate on 5th January at least quoted from the text books. He said: 
I should think beyond any doubt the police are entitled to put an end to a procession, a meeting, or a gathering if they apprehend, notwithstanding its lawful nature . . . 
In referring to the police he said: 
They may take quite severe steps to set an end to unlawful assembly. 
What does this mean? The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  talked about the people having the right to demonstrate. That was utter stupidity because they have no right to assemble, no freedom of assembly and no freedom of speech. The police have unlimited power. The magistrate in the Central Court of Petty Sessions said that the police could take extreme action to end an unlawful assembly. Let us stop this rubbish. Let us stop this talk about the freedom of our society. We do not need this legislation. What this Government should do is to repeal the repugnant - I use the word advisedly - police state legislation that now exists in the 1960 Crimes Act. There are provisions in that Act which are a disgrace not only to this Government but also to this country and which would be a disgrace to any democratic society. They are a discrace to the Attorney-General who now sits at the table. We want a freer society. 
Recently the Attorney-General delivered an address at the opening of a police seminar. He delivered his speech on 14th April and it was reported in the 'Australian' on 15th April. He said: 
If this belief was accepted as a fundamental human right, it would be the beginning of a breakdown in the acceptance of law and an ordered society. 
He went on to say: 
What these views fail to take into account is that an individual in our form of society has duties as well as rights. 
The Attorney-General nods his head and says: 'That is correct'. Let me tell him a few of the duties that I believe individuals have in this society of ours. Individuals have a duty to speak out against, to demonstrate against and to work against the war in Vietnam. In that war we see the most powerful nation in the world dropping more explosives on the little nation of Vietnam than were dropped on all the Axis nations throughout the whole of the Second World War. We have a duty to call for the cessation of that stupidity. We have a duty to express our indignation at the conscription of young men like Geoffrey Mullen. This young man is a science graduate who can make a contribution to our society, yet we gaol him for 2 years because he opposed the immoral war in Vietnam. 
Geoffrey Mullen said: T am not a conscientious objector as such but I am against the war in Vietnam and I am against conscription. Therefore I will not submit to the dictates of this Government. I will not go and fight in Vietnam because I believe it is a crime to engage in the war in Vietnam.' I know that there are men of good will on the other side of the House. It is a great pity that they have not had the moral courage to stand up against the war in Vietnam. Why is it that in the United States of America Republicans and Democrats alike have opposed the war in Vietnam and have criticised it? 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for your learned lecture. I know that your sensitivity as a member of the Government- 
With all due respect- 
-I will,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but in passing may I say that I think you are ultrasensitive. 
In the United States Government there are divisions but in this Parliament not one supporter of the Government and not one member of the Government has ever expressed criticism in this House of Government policy in this regard. There was one beloved person in the Senate who did express opposition, and his memory will always remain with me. When we talk of duties that men have 1 remind the House of the duty that we have to speak out against the Kon Sons in Vietnam because this is involved with the legislation on law and order that we are now discussing. We have a duty to speak out against the tiger cages in which the Government in Vietnam, which we support, has kept people chained up like animals. To say that Vietnam is not involved in this law and order legislation is complete hypocrisy. To say that My Lai is not linked with this legislation is utter hypocrisy. To say that the fragmentation bombs being used in Vietnam are not linked with this legislation is utter hypocrisy. To say that the use of napalm in Vietnam is not linked with this legislation is utter hypocrisy. To say that phosphorus bombs being used in Vietnam are not linked with this legislation is utter hypocrisy. I have nothing but contempt for this legislation which I say is quite unnecessary. 
I have given examples of legislation that is now on the statute books and which could be used for the purpose for which we are told the legislation now before us is to be used. This is a political stunt because the legislation is not necessary. Let me return to the question of locking up young men and intimidating them. The young man Geoffrey Mullen is at present in Berrima gaol. On Good Friday, before I myself was incarcerated, I visited Mullen in Berrima gaol and remained with him for an hour and a quarter. The superintendent of that gaol said that if there was a demonstration outside the Berrima gaol against the gaoling of this young man he would be transferred to another prison. Since that time there has been intimidation within the gaol itself. It has been said that if there are demonstrations outside Berrima gaol the privileges of the prisoners within the gaol will be restricted. Two prison warders named Unicomb and Motley have even said that they will turn their backs if injury is inflicted upon Mullen by his fellow prisoners and that they will not see it. I say here and now that if anything happens to Mullen this Government, this Deputy Speaker and every man on the Government side will stand condemned and will be responsible because it is this Government that committed the young man to that gaol. 
If the Government tells us that we have freedom of assembly we will demonstrate and we will make sure that we demand more freedom, not less. What is wrong with this Government is that it has restricted our freedoms. Let me cite to the House Article 19 of the Declaration pf Human Rights. It reads: 
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. 
Article 20 reads: 
Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association. 
This freedom does not exist in this country. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Is the Tariff Board at present examining a case regarding the dumping in Australia of the defoliant used in Vietnam called 'Orange'. 
Does 'Orange' contain equal concentrations of the herbicides (2,4,5-T) and (2,4-D). 
Is he able to say whether (a) the  President  of the United States of America has prohibited the use of'Orange' in Vietnam and (b) there are members of the United States Air Force in Vietnam who are to be tried for ignoring this ban. 
Is he able to say whether there is any evidence that the use of 'Orange' in Vietnam has caused an increasein the number of teratogenic (deformed foetus) births. 
Is this compound being manufactured in Australia; if so, how much has been exported to Vietnam. 
Can he say whether the  President  of the United States has taken action to restrict' the use of (2,4,5-T) in that country. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to dale the information on the (a) number of houses and (b) percentage of total houses completed in each State by State housing authorities (Hansard, 12 June 1970, page 3654). 
1 address my question to the Minister for Housing. Is it a fact that the housing material index in the noncommercial sector has shown a steadily accelerating trend since it was first collated? Does the index carry a heavy weighting for timber, board and joinery, and show a more rapid increase than indices weighted with steel and iron products and most other building materials? Can the Minister say why the housing index reflecting timber, board and joinery costs has risen so much above the others? Can he say what the Government will do to try to deal with this major cause of rising housing costs? 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst welcoming the advances provided in the Bill, this House is of opinion that the Commonwealth should establish an appropriate instrumentality to bring about co-operation and co-ordination with the States and local authorities to: 
ensure that planning authorities are established or developed, 
ensure that all lands vested in the States or Commonwealth wilt be retained and that private rights to such land is limited to leasehold, 
identify a number of appropriate sites for new cities and co-operate in their development, 
assist in slum prevention and renewal and 
assist appropriate bodies to carry out comprehensive urban improvement and development.' 
In moving the amendment I desire to set out the details of what a Labor administration would do. For too long housing, urban living and the environment have been at the very bottom of the priorities list of successive anti-Labor governments over the last 2 decades. The Opposition wants a new deal for housing, particularly for young married couples and for very old people. It wants a better deal for the people living in the cities - a better environment and the right to participate in the arts, the theatre, culture, social and recreational activities. Equally they should have the right to develop, enjoy and contribute to a full life and not just exist from one day to the next. On 29th September last the former Minister for Housing, Dame Annabelle Rankin, speaking of the Government, said: 
One of the major aims of our housing contribution in the next 3 years will be to encourage the States to provide decent housing for lower income families who are unable to obtain satisfactory private accommodation. 
Let us examine the Government's record over the last 2 decades and then let us deal with the prospects of the former Minister's prediction being carried out in the future. With the conourrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table setting out the record of the State housing authorities over the 20 years from 1950 to 1970. 

<graphic href="072131197104293_72_7.jpg"></graphic>

It will be noted from an examination of the table that there were 17,959 homes constructed in 1955 by the State housing authorities, which was the equivalent of 22 per cent of all housing constructed in the States. In 1970, 13,446 homes were constructed by the State authorities, or 9.8 per cent of all housing for that year. In that period from 1955 to 1970 the amount of government low cost housing fell from 22 per cent of all housing down to less than 10 per cent. Yet a. spokesman for the Government said that this would be the Government's major priority in the next 3 years. We have put up with the  hyprocrisy  of this Government for too long. 
If we turn the clock back 19 years, to 1952, we find that 13,931 homes were constructed by the State housing authorities, or 17.5 per cent of all dwellings constructed in that year. Yet last year only 13,446 homes were built, making a fall in the percentage of homes constructed from 17.5 per cent 19 years ago to less than 10 per cent last year. Despite the ever increas ing population, fewer homes are being built today than nearly 20 years ago. That is a shameful record. Yet a spokesman for the Government has said that its major aim was to build low cost housing for persons on low incomes. I say to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns):  We want more than words and platitudes. We want action. It is about time the Government did something for the people on low incomes who need homes. 
According to the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the cost of a three bedroom flat from the Victorian Housing Commission is $22 a week. The figures in the table which I have incorporated reveal that the proportion of homes constructed by State housing authorities to all homes constructed in Australia dropped from 22 per cent in 1955 to less than 10 per cent in 1970. I believe that the position will worsen because of the credit restrictions announced by the Government in its direction to the Reserve Bank in April 1970. Interest rates on loans to the State Housing 
Commissions have increased from 5 per cent to 6 per cent. This means that the position for the year beginning in July 1970 will be woree than it was for the year ended in June 1970 when State housing construction had dropped to 9.8 per cent of all constructions, one of the lowest ebbs in the last 2 decades during which this Government has been in power. 
Last November all the State Housing Ministers met in Melbourne and made a unanimous request that the interest rates for the construction of low cost housing constructed by the State housing authorities be reduced from 6 per cent to 4 per cent. Let me remind the Minister for Housing that at that time - this was prior to the recent elections in Western Australia - 5 out of 6 State Ministries were anti-Labor Governments. AH 6 Ministers were requesting that the interest rates be reduced from 6 per cent to 4 per cent. This is only one of the reasons why this legislation is inadequate. The prevailing interest rate of 6 per cent on moneys made available to the States is excessive. People cannot meet this commitment. It is almost a usurious interest rate for what the Government calls 'low cost housing'. It is about time we got back to the Chifley formula. In 1945 under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement interest rates were 3 per cent. In the year 1969-70, 47 per cent, or $355m, of the moneys lent by the States for works and housing came from Commonwealth revenue. It did not come from loan moneys but from Commonwealth revenue, which is provided by the taxpayers. They were the people who made the money available. Yet the Commonwealth in providing this money to the States charged the highest interest in the history of the Commonwealth. It charged an interest rate of 6 per cent although 47 per cent of the money made available was from Commonwealth revenue. 
Government supporters talk about their housing policy. A major priority for the Government in the next 3 years should be the provision of low cost housing. The  record  of the Government is a disgraceful one. It is the record of a sectional government. It is the record of a government that represents only the wealthy sector. It represents only the monopolies, oligopolies, companies and those who have great personal wealth. It has very little understand ing of the problems of those people who really need housing. This year is the year for a new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. Let us return to the Chifley formula. Let us reduce the interest rate to not more than 3 per cent. Let us be firm that no wage earner will have to pay more than one-fifth of his income in rent if he wants to rent a home from a housing commission. The rent for housing commission homes today is ludicrous. The Brotherhood of St Laurence did some' research into rents and found that a person who wanted a housing commission flat in Melbourne would have to pay $22 a week. If we apply the Chifley formula, which provided that a person should not have to pay more than one-fifth of his weekly income in rent, people renting a flat at $22 a week would have to have a weekly income of $110. Average weekly earnings today are only $84, and it is interesting to note that 70 per cent of all wage earners earn less than $84 a week. Does this example not clearly expose this sectional Government that occupies the treasury bench in Canberra? 
Housing reform is long overdue. We have a new Minister for Housing, but we need more than a new broom; we need revolutionary ideas and action. We need some action to move the Treasury. I know that the conservative elements on the Government side, particularly the new prophet from Queensland, the new Minister for Housing, will say that the Government is to have a new policy and will do revolutionary things for the people. Have we not heard this story before? Have we not heard the story of that great radical man of the right who formerly sat on the back bench - the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)?  When he became the Minister for Social Services he was in a dilemma. He did not know whether the Government should cut down defence expenditure so that he could extend his expenditure on social services and Aboriginal affairs. He was caught. He is one who looks for a Com under his bed every night. He was fearful that the Red hordes would come down on us, but he knew that the Government would have to cut down on defence expenditure if he was to get more money for social services and Aboriginal affairs. He found himself in a dilemma. He is still in that dilemma. Although he has brought new thought to his portfolio the age pensioners and people on social services have regressed under his administration. 
The same can be said of the Minister for Housing. He was a man who worried about red hordes coming down from the north and was an advocate for greatly increased defence expenditure. Where in the heavens is he to get money for housing? He has to make up his mind. As I said from the word go, the whole question is a matter of priorities. The Labor Party has at the top of its priorities the interests of the people and the cities where the mass of the Australian people live. In housing matters we are dealing with old and young people and family people. They are at the top of our priorities.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I know this hurts you as a member of the Country Party, but we are members of the city. We belong to the great metropolises where over 80 per cent of the people of this great Commonwealth live. As spokesman for the Opposition on urban affairs and housing, 1 have respect for the people of the country. But I want a fair deal for the people of the city. 
Let this new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement embody some of the principles set out in the amendment we have put forward. Let us not build boxes for people to live in. Let us not construct houses of the type that are being constructed in the ghettos of Mount Druitt and Green Valley or in the concrete jungles of North Melbourne where people are being put in 20-storey sky scrapers where in fact they are mere prisoners. Let us stop building these ghettos. Let us stop cramming together people with homogeneous ecnomic and social outlooks and let us plan for the heterogeneous community. We want to see the best in people. We want people from all walks of life - working people, middle income wage earners and high income people - in the same com.munty adding strength to one another and drawing from each others resources and experiences. Not only would I like to see them heterogeneous in terms of income but I would like to see them heterogeneous in terms of colour, creed and race. I want to see us more outward looking than inward looking. 
Let me give an example of what 1 am talking about. I want to quote from an interesting book. In fact I think it is the best book that has been written on this subject. It is written by  Mr Hugh  Stretton and is entitled 'Ideas for Australian Cities'. The author gives details of living in Green Valley, which of course is a metropolis of some 30,000 people situated on the outskirts of the south western part of Sydney and 20 miles from the centre of Sydney. I might say that it is as hot as hell in the summertime and as cold as ice in the wintertime. On page 160 of his book  Mr Stretton  states:   . . nine-tenths of Green Valley's workers travel out of the district to work. There and back, three-quarters of them travel between 25 and SO miles a day. Half must change channels twice or more each way. For a quarter of them, travelling time adds the equivalent of 2 working days to the working week. The average is nearly 2 hours a day; with some misfitting between work and transport timetables, many families do without their breadwinners for 11 or 12 hours. Also the city's lowest wages pay some of its highest fares. Similar distances and (without weekly concession tickets) even higher fares separate them from most friends and relations they'd like to visit, and from the pleasures and services of the city centre which is more than an hour each way and more than a dollar return ... To get a family of 6 from Green Valley to the beach or the zoo and back takes most of a day, including half a day's travel by car or perhaps 2 day's wages in fares and expenses . . . 
Hugh Stretton points out that 60 per cent of Green Valley's families have no car and 29 per cent are in the deserted wife category and do not earn wages. The out-patient departments of the public hospitals to which the people of this area go are not very easy to get to. In fact, Hugh Stretton at page 162 of his book states that there are no regular family doctors and some people cannot afford or cannot understand medical insurance. He goes on to say: 
So what happens when their babies get sick on winter nights? There may be no doctor on duty within miles, nobody has a telephone and the distant public one is as usual smashed unusable by vandals. 
That is the position of Green Valley; it is a position that we have to rectify. We have to rectify the position of the Green Valleys, the Mount Druitts and the concrete jungles of North Melbourne. Hugh Stretton in his book sets out the success stories that we should follow. 
One such example is that of the heterogeneous society of Canberra. We should be building a society such as this rather than the Green Valleys and Mount Druitts or the high rise flats of North Melbourne. We have in Canberra a heterogeneous society blended of people from all fields of life. We have workers on low incomes, people on middle incomes and those on high incomes who blend and add to each other. This is the sort of society that I believe we should try to add strength to; this is the society we need; and these are the standards for which we should strive. I want the environment of a city like Canberra spread right across this continent. I want to see our communities have the serenity, tranquillity and beauty of the city of Canberra. I want everyone in the Commonwealth to have an equal right to share in the better things of life. These are the issue to which a Labor administration will give major priorities. 
The Opposition's amendment sets out in broad principle what a Labor administration will do when it assumes office. We want people to participate in a developing life. We want people, as William Morris said, to be not only entitled to a better life but to be also able to enjoy life, to enjoy art, to enjoy culture and to enjoy a serenity and tranquility in life. We want everyone to be able to do this. Attention to this aspect is long overdue. This country has an abundance of wealth. However, our priorities are out of focus. What we have to do is to get our priorities hack into focus and make sure that we develop the nation in the interests of the people. Our amendment refers to the building of new cities. We say that we will identify a number of sites appropriate for new cities and co-operate in their development. We know that we have limited power in this field but we will work in co-operation with the States and co-ordinate the forces that are available to us. We want to build other Canberras. We want to make sure that land is available to young couples in other parts of Australia under the same conditions as it is available to young married couples in Canberra. 
Let me give an example of what is happening in Canberra. The National Capital Development Commission, to its great credit, from 1962-63 has been able to reduce the price of land for unrestricted blocks. This means that people living in Canberra have an advantage over those people living in the best residential areas in the capital cities in suburbs such as St Ives in Sydney. The average price paid at auction in Canberra for unrestricted land in 1962-63 was $4,500. By planning the Commission was able to reduce the price during a period of inflation to $3,000 in May 1970. This was revealed in the thirteenth annual report of the Commission. I asked the research section of the Parliamentary Library to examine the average price of land that was sold at restricted auction in Canberra in 1970. It was able to inform me that the land was made available at an average price of $900 a block. This means that people such as public servants in Canberra have the opportunity to buy a block of land for $900 at a restricted auction if they have not previously purchased a block of land in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Blocks in groups purchased in Canberra by firms such as Pettit and Sevitt and other developers which build large numbers of homes averaged $1,700 each in 1970. Let us compare the position in Canberra with that in the city of Sydney. The average price of a block of land in Sydney is between $8,000 and $9,000. I represent a working class area. In fact, in Guildford where I live a person would pay $7,500 to $8,000 for a block of land. We are asking the people of Australia to elect us to office and to give us the power to carry out our proposals. In co-operation and co-ordination with the States and local government authorities the Labor Party will purchase large tracts of land to build Canberras. We will make land available to young people more cheaply and on a more equitable basis than applies under the present Government even in Canberra. We believe in the concept of leasehold land. This is the way in which land should be distributed. Also, we believe all people are entitled to share in unearned increment, as the area improves then all share in the increase in value. This is the basis on which we believe land should be allocated. We believe in the basis of using a realistic system of land value and rental which means that people occupy land on leasehold. 
The Labour Party believes that we should have a system such as the one in Canberra, although this would not be the way in which we would implement the system. However, even under the conditions on which Canberra's land system has been operated, I have shown the difference in the price of land in Canberra as compared with the price in other capital cities. If we are given the opportunity we will implement what I have set out. We will build many Canberras in this nation of ours. We will make land available to people, old and young alike, to make sure that they have a secure future. After all, every young family is entitled to a home without suffering economic hardship. 
Another aspect I want to deal with in regard to the amendment is the assistance to bodies to carry out comprehensive urban improvement and development. This is another vision of the Australian Labor Party. Excuse me if 1 am a little parochial on mis question, but I come from Sydney. 1 live in Sydney and I think it is a beautiful area. However, nearly 100 years ago  Mr Neilsen,  the first Minister for Lands in a Labor administration in New South Wales, proposed a green belt around Sydney harbour. It seems to me that an administration whether Labor or anti-Labor, in New South Wales could purchase land on the foreshores of Sydney harbour in your area,  Mr Speaker,  and make it available for the use of all the people and not just a select few. We do not want to be ruthless about this. If people want to live in this area for the rest of their natural lives they may do so. But we want to return progressively the foreshores of Sydney harbour to the people of Australia. We want to do this sort of thing not only in Sydney, it should be manifold throughout the Commonwealth. This should be done in Melbourne, Brisbane, in the mountains or in the desert. We want to return and restore this Commonwealth progressively to the people of Australia. If we determine our priorities we can do these things. We achieve our aims if the people of Australia give us an opportunity to do so. For these reasons I propose this amendment to this negative legislation. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I rise to express my great concern that this House is to adjourn at the end of this week. It has been a very short sessional period. We know that the Government will' push through certain legislation by the use of the guillotine. I do not think that it is in the best interests of this Parliament, democracy or the nation as a whole that this should happen. No matter on what side one sits, one must show this concern. Because this will probably be the last adjournment debate when one will have an opportunity to express an attitude, I want to express my attitude about 2 aspects that have concerned me greatly over the last month. The one I want to mention particularly relates to the gaoling of Geoffrey Mullen, the young objector to a particular war, namely, the Vietnam war. This young nian is opposed also to conscription. He was gaoled in Berrima Gaol. I visited him there before my own incarceration. I went there on Good Friday and spoke to him in front of the superintendent of the gaol. The superintendent said that if there were any demonstration outside the gaol Mullen would be moved to another place. 
I have stated before in this Parliament, and I want to reiterate it, that I received a letter giving me information that in fact Mullen had been intimidated within the prison; that 2 warders of the names of Unicomb and Motley had said that if there were demonstrations outside the gaol privileges would be taken away from the other prisoners and that the other prisoners had said that they would take retaliatory action against Mullen. Within 24 hours of my revealing this information in Parliament the New South Wales Justice Department moved Mullen from Berrima Gaol to Newnes farm which, in fairness to the New South Wales authorities, I must say is probably the best prison in New South Wales apart from Silverwater. But what concerns me is the attitude in this day and age of taking action against such a man under such circumstances because he is morally opposed to something because of conscience. The young man is opposed to the war in Vietnam. He will not serve in Vietnam. He is against conscription. I am led to believe that senior authorities of the Berrima gaol were prepared to condone these actions by the prisoners if people exercised their democratic right as individuals to demonstrate outside the gaol. This is deplorable and I hope that the House takes note of the situation. 
Mullens is a Commonwealth prisoner. He has been put in gaol by honourable members on the Government side. He is a political prisoner. Because he is a political prisoner, we want this young man to be released from gaol before this Parliament reassembles for the Budget session. I will be demonstrating outside gaols and in a number of places because to have a political prisoner in this country in this day and age is utter stupidity. The stupidity of this Government is illustrated by the fact that, although 43,000 young men have refused to register for national service since 1964, only a handful have been prosecuted while the slate has been wiped clean in respect of 23,000. At least 10,000 cases are being examined now. This shows the hypocrisy of this Government. Why should one young man be locked up for this offence? 
In addition, this young man suffers certain restrictions. He wishes to carry out post-graduate studies while he is in gaol. Restrictions are placed on his undertaking a post-graduate course even though the University of New England will permit him to do it. We see here an example of the conservatism of the prison authorities in New South Wales. It is about time that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  and his Department joined with the Department of Labour and National Service and the AttorneyGeneral's Department to give this boy at least an opportunity if the Commonwealth Government intends to keep him in gaol. 
I wish to raise another point. As I stand in this Parliament tonight I say to honourable members on both sides that I am shocked and ashamed to think that not one word of criticism or concern has been uttered against the re-arming of Japan. Within the last week, a decision was made by the Japanese Diet to double Japan's defence expenditure in one year. I know that many people will say that this is a good thing and that a balance of power in the world will be achieved; that it will counter balance the power situation following the withdrawal of United States forces from South East Asia, and that the armaments of Japan will be needed following the United States withdrawal. This has been said before. As I am reminded by a colleague, it was said about Germany. 
We will roe the day when . Japan rearms. We know that, at this stage, our future to a great extent is tied up with Japan. I have lived under the tyranny of Japan. 1 am all for a peaceful Japan and I am all against a re-militarised Japan. This country can only fear and view with great concern a remilitarised Japan. Two of the great powers during the second World War - West Germany, on the one hand, and Japan on the other - because of the technology available to them could produce within a short time intercontinental ballistic missiles. They could produce nuclear weapons and all the other weaponry possessed bv the United States of America and the Soviet Union. We are told that the People's Republic of China is at least 2 to 3 years behind the United States and the Soviet Union. I believe that Japan in its weapons development could outpace such countries as the Soviet Union and China. Australia can benefit and develop only from peaceful cooperation with Japan. But I feel that the remilitarisation of Japan is a danger to Australia because within Japan and within Germany still remain the roots of Fascism. Fascism and militarism still remain and if anyone has seen Japanese Fascism, as I have seen it, he will speak out against Japanese remilitarisation. I completely condemn Japanese remilitarisation. 
I am greatly concerned at and disappointed with honourable members on my side of the Parliament because for one week we have nol raised our voices and expressed our condemnation and concern about the doubling of Japan's defence expenditure overnight. As for honourable members opposite, I know their negative anti-Communist approach and their reference to the threat of the downward thrust of Communism. But now that the United States is withdrawing from South East Asia honourable members opposite have to look for new allies and, of course, the new ally will be remilitarised Japan. What in the hell did we fight for in the 
Second World War? What did we rot for? What did we go through the suffering for? The Japanese want to remilitarise. We are giving away a great deal of our nation to the Japanese at 5c a ton. Now we are asked to agreed to Japanese remilitarisation. I say that it is not in the best interest of Australia and that every Australian should show his concern at the doubling of Japanese defence expenditure overnight. The Japanese are moving quickly to become a military power again, and I do not think that it is in Australia's interests. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Can be say whether the Housing Commission of Victoria has (a) increased its interest rates on low cost dwellings since January 1970 from 4½ per cent to 6 per cent, (b) added an administrative charge of  i  per cent and a death benefit cover of  i  per cent making a total interest charge of 7 per cent on dwellings constructed by the Commission and (c) raised the cost of a three-bedroom flat to $22 per week. 
Can he supply details of the cost per week for a three-bedroom flat or dwelling controlled by other State housing authorities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has 2,4,5-T been responsible in any way for teratogenic (foetus deforming) effects in humans as well as animals. 
Has the production of this compound caused chloracne in workers. 
If so, does this disease cause excessive skin eruptions, liver damage, disorders of the central nervous system, chronic fatigue, lassitude and depression. 
Is he able to say whether this disease has been recorded in the United States of America, the Netherlands, Germany and Japan. 
Can he say whether 2,4,5-T has (a) been linked to an increased incidence of respiratory diseases in Vietnam and (b) caused the death of many small mammals, including pigs, poultry and ducks and paralysis of many birds. 
Is production of this compound in Australia strictly controlled. 
Is the dumping of 2,4,5-T in this country an indication that control of its use is less rigid than in the United States of America. 
What steps are being taken to ensure that (a) this discrepancy is removed to ensure the full protection of the Australian public, (b) further dumping is prevented and (c) Australian production and use of 2,4,5-T is rigidly controlled. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable, the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned employees of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth that the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act is inadequate inasmuch as it fails to: 
Provide for no loss of wages for an employee on compensation. 
Compensate for all illness or injuries arising during employment. 
Provide for fair and open judgment of compensation claims. 
Remove many other existing anomalies. 
We further submit the amendments already proposed by the Government would do little or nothing to improve the Act. Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will respond to our plea for more enlightened legislation and act to make the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act a most beneficial piece of legislation in this field. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Have discussions been held between the Department of Supply and other departments regarding the possibility of Australia participating in the Earth Resources Satellite Programme of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration of the United States of America. 
If so, which departments have been involved in the discussions. 
Which departments have expressed interest in participating in the programme and what were the names of the applicants submitted by each. 
When will a decision be made regarding the participation by Australia in the programme. 
Can the Minister say whether some countries have deckled to participate because of the potential benefits from the programme in such areas as land use surveys, communications, pollution monitoring, geological surveying and crop disease surveys. 
If so, what are the reasons for any delay in a decision by Australia. 
asked the Attorney-General,  upon notice: 
Has there been any action or investigation by the Commonwealth security police into the bombing of the home of Councillor Arthur Gietzelt,  President  of the Sutherland Shire, and a Senatorelect for the State of New South Wales. 
asked the Minister for Primary 
Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is increasing widespread concern about the effects of certain pesticides (such as DDT, DDE and dieldrin) and chemicals called polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's) on the reproduction of many birds and the possible build-up of these compounds in humans and other mammals. 
Is he able to say whether restrictions on the use of some of these chemicals have already been instituted overseas. 
What programmes (a) have been instituted by him or (b) are being carried out by other Commonwealth and State agencies to assess the levels and distribution of these chemicals in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor state on 29th September 1970 that, one of the major aims of the Govern ment's. housing contribution, in the next 3 years would be to encourage the States to provide decent housing for lower income families. 
If so, will he provide details of positive assistance subsequently provided by the Commonwealth to implement these aims. 
Is he able to say how many dwelling were completed by (a) each State Housing. Authority and (b) the Commonwealth during (i) each of the last 3 years and (ii) the year 1954-11955. 
If so, what percentage of the total number of completed dwellings was completed by . each; of the State Housing Authorities in each of those years. 
What interest rate was charged on loans by the Commonwealth to State Housing Authorities in each of the years (a) 1968-69, (b) 1969-70 and (c) 1970-71. 
Is he able to say what amount the increased interest charge has added to the weekly rental for new tenants of Housing Commission homes. 
Is he able to say what amount is paid in rent for a new 2-3 bedroom cottage constructed by each State Housing Authority under the prevailing interest rate. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the environmental message of  President  Nixon of 8th February 1971 wherein he said in regard to ocean dumping, that protection of . the total: marine environment from suchpollution can only be assured if other nations, adopt similar measures and enforce them. 
If so, was his attention also drawn to the plans of  President  Nixon to 
recommend a national policy banning unregulated ocean dumping of all materials and placing strict limits on ocean disposal of any materials harmful to the environment; and 
recommend legislation which will require a  permit from the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the dumping of any materials into the oceans, estuaries or the Great Lakes and will authorise the Administrator to ban the dumping of wastes which are dangerous to marine ecosystems. 
Is it a fact that while the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill remains . unenacted a large amount of unregulated dumping of toxic, materials continues on the continental shelf. - 
Has his attention been drawn to a report 'in the Daily News of Perth on 24th June 1970 of the regular - dumping of arsenic by the BP 
Refinery Pty -Ltd at Kwinana- in Western Australia; if so, is a serious threat to marine ecosystems occasioned 6y such acts. 
How many officers in his- Department have the scientific competence to judge whether a particular act of ' dumping is or is hot toxic to marine ecosystems. 
Will he provide a detailed' account of how, under present licensing: conditions,' permission is given to allow' ocean dumping and; iii particular, how the possible, danger', of the- dumping to marine ecosystems is assessed. 
Is there 'an urgent need for theCommonwealth Government to act' to ensure that the' present level of 'dumping is immediately stopped and- that a more thorough licensing scheme is instituted to ensure that nothing which is dangerous, to. marine. life is. dumped, 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Did he recently inform me that the weekly rental charged by the Housing Commission of Victoria for a 3-bedroom house varied from $10.40 to $12.30. 
Are the figures released in March by the Brotherhood of St Laurence which he stated on 7th April that he had received at variance with the figures he supplied to me. 
If so, is he able to state the reasons for the disparity. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Have joint activities been initiated between Australia and the United States since the signing of the Agreement relating to scientific and technical co-operation between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the United States of America. 
If so, do any of the joint activities relate to environmental problems. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the United States Federal Reserve Bank has reduced interest rates by at least 1 per cent during the last 6 months in order to stimulate the home building industry and to assist persons seeking a loan to construct private dwellings? 
Was there a fall in the commencements of private dwellings in Australia during the March quarter of 1971 compared with the same period last year? 
If so, were high interest rates one of the causes? 
Will he instruct the Reserve Bank to reduce interest rates for home construction in order to stimulate the home building industry and to assist young people to acquire a home? 
I address a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, ls it a fact that the Australian Government sent troops to Vietnam because of a great deal of pressure from the Government of the United States of America and that similar pressure was placed on all other SEATO and NATO allies but that all other governments, with the exception of the New Zealand Government, refused to send combat troops to Vietnam? Is it not a fact that the Australian Government sent troops to Vietnam because it wanted a type of insurance policy? Does the Minister believe that the sending of troops to support a corrupt government in South Vietnam and the consequent loss of almost 500 young Australians was worth while? 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that an official report has been compiled on living standards of pensioners. 
If so, will he provide details of the findings of the report. 
When will the report be tabled in the House. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in the last 12 months there has been an increased awareness of the pollution of water and air by the heavy metals - mercury, cadmium and lead - leading to the institution of very strict controls in many countries on the release into the environment of these metals and a great increase in the testing of food drawn from areas suspected or known to carry high concentrations of these metals. 
Can he say who in Australia is responsible for (a) regulating and controlling the release of these metals into the environment, recognising the fact that most heavy metals eventually finish up in off-shore waters and (b) measuring their concentrations in food produce. 
Is the spread through Australian ecosystems of these metals being investigated by any Commonwealth authority. 
Is there anywhere in Australia a systematic check of the levels of these metals in water, air and food; if so, where are the results published. 
Should more resources be invested to measure the levels and nature of pollution by heavy metals in Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Clean Air Bill passed late last year by the Congress of the United States of America. 
If so, is it possible and desirable for a similar measure to be introduced in Australia. 
If such a measure is contemplated, will he ensure that it contains in the section dealing with moving sources of pollution similar provisions to those in the United States' law and, in particular (a) provision for a reduction of 90 per cent by 1975 in the levels of emissions of hydrocarbons, etc., (b) the testing of cars to ensure compliance with standards, (c) grants for the development of inspection systems, (d) grants for research on fuels and vehicles and (e) permission for citizen suits to enforce non-violation of standards. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the debate now occurring in many countries on the need to use economic and financial policy to encourage greater recycling of both renewable and nonrenewable resources than is occurring at present. 
Would the introduction of a tax on virgin resources encourage greater recycling of such items as paper and aluminium. 
If so, will he give consideration to the implementation of this policy in the 1971-72 Budget 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Does the proposed development of land for steel production by the ARMCO Steel Consortium at Jervis Bay involve the sale or lease of any Commonwealth land. 
If so, for what purpose will this land be used. 
What Commonwealth departments have been involved in feasibility studies on this development. 
Has the Commonwealth insisted that only the latest technology for steel production be used from the outset so as to ensure that the best methods of pollution control are incorporated. 
Has the Commonwealth insisted that as much of the natural environment as possible be retained. 
Have steps been taken to ensure that the proposed development will not result in environmental degradation of Commonwealth territory and other land around Jervis Bay. 
There is no question on this side of the House about the seriousness of this discussion. As far as we are concerned, it is most unusual for the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to make a decision and then, because of the rebellion in the back bench of his Party, have to stand up the Governor-General. We know that many honourable members on the Government back benches, including the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  refused to support the proposal now before the House unless there was a general debate on it. Now we are having that debate. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has moved an amendment which I support. 1 am not a legal man, but 1 listened carefully to the honourable member for Berowra. It is most unusual for the Prime Minister to use the legal opinion of a man whose opinion he does not respect and whom he sacked and kicked out of the Ministry. Why does he not seek the opinion of the former Attorney-General, now the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  or obtain a statement from the present Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)?  With all due respect to the honourable member for Berowra, nothing that he said when giving his legal opinion is different from what was said by  Mr Speaker  Cameron.  Mr Speaker  Cameron said that the proposed positions represented offices of profit under the Crown and, of course, the honourable member for Berowra has expressed the same opinion. 
I want to see some balance brought into this Parliament if there is to be a democratic approach. Already we have 27 
Ministers and a great deal of staff to support that Ministry. Now the Prime Minister wants to appoint a further 6. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  raised the question of the shadow cabinet on this side of the House. What about our responsibilities and our lack of services and staff to combat ministries which can draw on their complete staffs and the resources of their departments? Is this a fair go? Under this socalled democratic procedure, how can we examine minutely the legislation before the House? It is not enough for the Government that we do not have available to us the staff to enable us to enter into debates and compete with the resources on which the Government can draw? The Government now wants 6 Assistant Ministers. 
I have the responsibility on this side of the House for housing, urban affairs and the environment. Housing and the environment are dealt with by 2 Ministers, whilst in regard to urban affairs we know that this Government has no responsibility at all for the cities of Australia. It is not concerned about the cities of Australia. They can fall into squalor. However, because of this aspect alone, I suggest that these 6 Assistant Ministers should not be appointed. Parliament as a whole should be responsible for determining whether these appointments are necessary. 
The Opposition needs some assistance. 
I am putting the point of view that you have denied members of the Opposition any right to a fair go. Our shadow Ministers, and even our back bench members, are not provided with sufficient staff to enable them to examine legislation which the House is considering. Our needs command a higher priority than the need to extend the Ministry. However, the Labor caucus will examine the Prime Minister's suggestion. I cannot make a decision on it. The Labor Party has decided to support the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Grayndler. 1 am arguing that the Prime Minister has not shown the Opposition consideration. 
One question that arises is whether there is some sinister purpose in appointing Assistant Ministers. Are they intended to buy off members on the back benches on the Government side? Is the appointment of the Assistant Ministers a move to defeat the possibility of the Liberal Pary caucus voting itself power to select the Ministry? Is this a move to quieten some members opposite or to extend the number of members of the establishment so that in meetings of the Liberal Party caucus there will be sufficient members of the establishment to quieten other members? These are matters which we must examine. I am trying to debate this proposal in a balanced a:id thoughtful way.  Mr Speaker,  I have just had handed to me from the Opposition front bench a note suggesting that I should accept the Prime Minister's offer of assistance. I do not know. 
No. This is now my responsibility. 1 have received a note from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and, as far as I am concerned, he has made a decision, which is that we now accept the Prime Minister's offer. 
Do not be a twister or a- 
The great trouble with the Prime Minister is that he wants everything his own way. When he was not the Prime Minister he was the greatest leak in Cabinet. This is known by every Press man in the Press Gallery. Outside of this chamber the Prime Minister is known by members of the Press as 'Billy the leak'. The Prime Minister knows that. 

 - Mr Speaker, all 1 did was to repeat that the Prime Minister is known by Press men as 'Billy the leak'. I made no accusations about what he is. 
I was only repeating what the Prime Minister was known as. He was known by this title because of the fact that when he was not the Prime Minister it suited him to telephone members of the Press and consequently it is now those Press men who are making the accusations, not me. 
 Mr Speaker,  1 wandered 
Slightly  from  the  matter under discussion because of interjections. After all,  Mr Speaker,  you are responsible for the conduct of this chamber and you allowed the Prime Minister to interject, contrary to Standing Orders, and I listened to him. In duc course, the Leader of the Opposition gave  me  the responsibility of making a decision and, consequently, I accepted the proposition or the offer put forward by the Prime Minister. Now it seems that that was an irresponsible statement. The Prime Minister's decision to appoint Assistant Ministers is apparently to broaden the base of the establishment in the parliamentary Liberal Party to stifle his critics so that when the Liberal Party caucus comes to determine whether rank and file members of the Liberal Party should, in a democratic way, elect the Ministry and Cabinet any criticism of the Prime Minister will  be  stifled. I ask those critics on the back benches of the Government side to join with the Opposition in voting in favour of the amendment moved  by  the honourable member for Grayndler. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the decision of  President  Nixon in February 1969 to alter patent procedures in the United States to give priority to the examination of patents which are designed to improve or protect the environment? 
Has any consideration been given to adopting a similar priority in Australia? 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Report of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies entitled Housing Authorities in Urban Renewal (Hansard, 1st April 1971, page 1290) reveals certain positive action being carried out by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development in the United States of America? 
Has the Commonwealth Government any immediate or future plans to give a lead in urban development in Australia by - 
making grants to public agencies and local communities to cover interest charges on loans raised to purchase land for development in accordance with a comprehensive plan, 
making grants, advances and loans to assist cities in slum elimination, 
making grants for projects aimed at developing, testing or reporting on new methods for the prevention of slum formation, 
making grants to official State, metropolitan, regional and local planning authorities to assist with the preparation of comprehensive development plans, 
granting aid for research into planning problems including obsolete legislation and urban administration, 
assisting State and local government bodies in acquiring urban land for park, recreation, scenic or historic purposes, 
assisting approved public and private agencies concerned with developing better ways of providing low-income housing, and housing for the elderly and handicapped, and 
assisting individuals, families, business or non-profit associations concerned with, or about to be displaced  by,  projects carried out  by  improvement programmes? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Can the Attorney-General say what scales of imprisonment are laid down to cover cases where default is made in paying a fine or court costs in (a) a criminal and (b) a civil case in each State and Territory of the Commonwealth? 
by leave - As the person involved in this case 1 of course attended court and made my stand even though I had been advised by responsible officers of the Parliament that I could have sought the protection of privilege. I did not seek the protection of privilege and did not even ask the Parliament to take action in my case. The former AttorneyGeneral, now the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  set out the case but he omitted to say that I set out my case much more thoroughly in a speech I made in this House on 17th February 1971. I was hoping that the community as a whole would examine the case in some depth but as most people do when one challenges society, it has only looked at the case superficially. This has brought about certain reforms but not to the extent I wished. The magistrate,  Mr Lewer,  tried to deter the police when they attempted to press me for the payment of the costs. They applied pressure because they wanted the costs to be paid by me. in fact, they were showing how vindictive they were in the whole case and I hope that even in considering this privilege case people will examine the details of the whole case. 
There are only 2 aspects of this case about which I want to speak briefly. Firstly, 1 would not pay a fine because 1 think that a law which threatens people with punishment if they dare to air their grievances in court is an unjust law. In my case 1 was assaulted by a police constable.  His  number was 3136. The police would not identify this policeman. They even tried to conceal him by dressing 5 other young constables of similar size and colouring in civilian clothes and making me pick him out of a group of young men seated in the court. I was able to do so and yet be said that he had never seen me before in his life. The Minister knows that I am not a vindictive man and yet I was able to select this policeman who assaulted me. Senior police officers went into court and if they did not perjure themselves they stretched the truth to protect the system. The last point that I want to make is that I think that a law which threatens a man with gaol when he has broken no law is a stupid law and a sentence of 40 days hard labour for failure to pay a fine of $80 is a stupid sentence. 
The eminent legal interjector says: 'Costs'. I said it was a fine. I treated it as a fine and that is how the police used it - as a fine, an intimidation. What the legal men ought to do is get down to earth and stop living up in the clouds. It is ironical that the result of this case was that I spent only 3 days in gaol. A person was manipulated into paying the fine. I made it perfectly clear that any person who paid the fine was a stooge for the authorities and I still stand by that view. lt is interesting to note that the New South Wales Cabinet reviewed the position the day after I was released from gaol. A sentence of a day in gaol for every $2 of a fine or maintenance not paid was altered to 1 day for every $5. It was pointed out in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 14th April 19.1 in an article 'Reform Follows Uren's Release' that one-third of the prisoners in New South Wales gaols were there for failure to pay debts, fines or maintenance. They were sentenced to 1 day's gaol for every $2 of a fine or maintenance not paid. The day after I was released that was altered to I day for every $5. One-third of the prisoners in gaols in New South Wales received a remittance of 60 per cent of their sentences. Ironically, it probably saved the taxpayers of New South Wales hundreds of thousands of dollars. It might even run into millions. I placed a question on notice to find out what were the actual ratio of days of imprisonment to fine or debt in each State. Surely even the Minister for Foreign Affairs would say that to put a man in gaol for 1 day for every $2 of maintenance or fine not paid is a stupid law. If the Minister does not agree with that then there is something wrong with his thinking. 
I am very pleased that the former Attorney-General said that. The question I placed on notice read as follows: 
Can the Attorney-General say what scales of imprisonment are laid down to cover cases where default is made in paying a fine or court costs in (a) a criminal and (b) a civil case in each State and Territory of the Commonwealth. 
I will not go into all the details. I have read that question to answer the interjection made by the Minister. The reply was given under the name of  Mr N.  H. Bowen. In the Australian Capital Territory it is one day for each $2 or part thereof, with a maximum of 12 months imprisonment. 
Do you mean in a criminal case? 
Do not let us quibble. I am not talking only about my circumstances. I am talking about justice in the community 
I am dealing with all types of fines and maintenance costs, as well as my own case. In the Australian Capital Territory it is one day's gaol for every $2. It is about time that this Territory caught up with the position in New South Wales. It is about time that this Parliament reviewed the position in relation to the provision for $2 a day maintenance costs in the Australian Capital Territory. Of course this applies to any costs at all. A law which can put a person in gaol for 1 day for every $2 in default is a stupid law but this is the position in the Australian Capital Territory. What I would like to see eventuate out of my case is a little bit of justice to counter the inflationary trends that this Government has inflicted upon the people of Australia in the last 22 years. I want to say something about gaols. It is about time that this Federal Parliament had a look at prison reform. There has been no action by this Govern ment to bring about prison reform or improved conditions for prisoners because there no votes to be had from such action. The conditions in the gaol at Long Bay, and in other gaols in many parts of Australia, are very bad. The only way to get better gaols is for the Commonwealth Government to make financial grants to the State governments. If my going to gaol did no more than open my eyes to prison conditions I am glad that I went to gaol. I hope that my going to gaol has awakened some other people to the need for prison reform. I conclude by saying that I did not seek privilege and I would do the same thing again. If I was treated in the same way again and had to go to gaol again I would not claim privilege. 
I listened with sadness to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  this evening. After 22 years of Government he still wants to kick the Communist can and after so long his Government on negative policies of hysteria, still wants to stir up this attitude of personal abuse. He said his Government would not be a satellite of any power, but every person, even school children, in this country know that this Government has been a satellite of the United States of America in regard to its policy towards Vietnam. Does the Prime Minister want to forget the statement a former Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, at a time when he was in the Government, who said: 'All the way with LBJ', and who committed the Australian Government in Vietnam? Of course, that commitment, that insurance policy, has cost nearly 500 young Australian servicemen their lives, over 2,500 young men have been maimed and over $200m of Australian taxpayers' money has been spent, and the present Prime Minister who was a member of that Government talks with hypocrisy and says that he does not want to be a satellite of any power. He accuses the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  of playing politics in China with wheat. The Leader of the Opposition said when he was in China that if the Australian Government established diplomatic and normal relations with China he felt Australia would receive a fair share of the China wheat market. But no. The Prime Minister wants to play politics because he wants to play to a sectional interest. He knows he is way out on a limb. He knows he is way out on this issue.  His  personal abuse of the Leader of the Opposition is no answer. Therefore, I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: but this House deplores the conduct of the Prime Minister in attempting to narrow debate on the question of Australia's future diplomatic and trade relations with the People's Republic of China to a personal and partisan level and for basing his approach on incorrect information'. 
The day after the full report of the historic meeting of the Leader of the Opposition with Chou En-lai appeared, all the Prime Minister could say was that the Leader of the Opposition had been reduced to 'platitudes and banalities'. For 3 or 4 days after that the Australian Press was full of praise for the Leader of the Opposition. The Liberals decided that it was too much of a good thing and they must have a counter-attack, so 9 days later the Prime Minister claimed to discover that the meeting was 'dangerous and irresponsible'. The charges against the Leader of the Opposition boiled down to 2 issues, what was said - and what happened at the meeting itself - and what the Government alleges was the effect on other countries. As for the meeting itself - and I ask honourable members to give some attention to this and to give consideration to what was said by the Australian pressmen who attended in China with the Australian Labor Party delegation - let me read some of the comments by the people who were there. There were 5 members of the Parliamentary Press Gallery present and I will read what they had to say. I ask the Government: Are these pressmen dupes? Are they fools? Are not these people employed by a Press which is opposed to the Australian Labor Party? Let me quote what John Stubbs of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' - surely no one would assert that that newspaper is a pro-Labor journal - said on 7th July 1971: 

 Mr Whitlam acquitted himself well. ... It became clear that one of the central objectives Chou had in the discussion was to have  Mr Whitlam  repudiate the ANZUS Treaty.  Mr Whitlam  had spent some time last month defending it in Launceston. It must be seldom anyone has disagreed wilh a parallel he has carefully drawn, as he did between ANZUS and the SinoSoviet Treaty. It is doubtful if it has ever been done as firmly. 
Does anybody doubt the remarks of John Stubbs? He is not a gossip writer; he was there. Let me quote Eric Walsh of the Financial Review' of 7th July 1971: 
But he did not give the ground which the veteran Chinese Premier clearly most hoped for, a denunciation or even a backdown on the ANZUS treaty or an expression of hostility towards Japan. 
Let me turn to a statement by Laurie Oakes in the Melbourne 'Sun' on 7th July 1971: 

 Mr Chou was clearly trying to get  Mr Whitlam  to publicly denounce ANZUS, but the Labor Leader refused to be drawn. 
Instead, he asserted strongly that we in Australia regard the treaty as entirely a defensive one. 
I turn now to an article by Allan Barnes of the Melbourne 'Age' on 7th July 1971. 

 Mr Whitlam has no need to apologise for his deft handling of the encounter. . . . 

 Mr Whitlam stood up remarkably well to the wily Choirs attempts to get him into a corner on ANZUS, the United States and Japan. 
It isn't easy to stand up to a man of  Mr  Chou's  intellectual capacity and stature when you are a guest in his country wanting to be as polite as possible. 
Would anyone deny that  Mr Whitlam  is a man of decorum and protocol? He believes in the system of precedent; he believes in the parliamentary system. Of course he is a polite man in diplomatic exchanges. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  say anything to the contrary? I quote now what was said by Ken Randall in the 'Australian' on 9th July 1971: 
In the circumstances,  Mr Whitlam  had an extraordinarily difficult task and handled it skilfully. 
Does anybody suggest that those pressmen who were with the Leader of the Opposition were wrong?  Mr McMahon  did not quote any of the pressmen who were with the Leader of the Opposition. He listened to the gossip; he tried to stir dissension and fear by innuendo and did not quote one fact. That is what we have to consider. The 'Financial Review' of 14th July 1971 stated: 
Only the narrowest of petty politicians- 
I have no doubt the Prime Minister is one of those people -  could claim that no advantage to Australia at all accrued from  Mr Whitlam's  meetings with  Mr Chou.   .  
On Monday night,  Mr McMahon  said that  Mr Whitlam  had even spoken contemptuously of the Soviet Union- 
Has he forgotten the Soviet Union's invasion of Czechoslovakia? Of course the Leader of the Opposition had a right to speak in that way. He spoke of the differences between China and the Soviet Union over their border dispute. Did he not have a right to do this? The article in the 'Financial Review' continued:   . . with whom my Government is slowly building bridges towards a better understanding beneficial  to  us. 
The Government wants to forget Czechoslovakia and the freedoms that have been crushed in that country, lt even wants to ignore the restrictions on the freedom of the artists and writers in the Soviet Union. Laurie Oakes in the Melbourne 'Herald' on 14lh July 1971 stated: 

 Mr McMahon's claim that Premier Chou played the Labor leader like a trout on a rod is inaccurate. 
Plenty of lures were thrown out but  Mr Whitlam  resisted them. 
He was determined not to get caught. 
Why do not honourable members opposite give credit to a man who gave leadership? The Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are 2 people in the Parliament, apart from the Leader of the Opposition, who know best the tremendously cordial reception the Leader of the Opposition received in Japan and the Philippines after his visit to China.  Mr Whitlam  met probably the widest range of national leaders  ever  to meet an Australian parliamentarian. Present were members of our embassies in Tokyo and Manila. On most occasions in Tokyo, including the 2 hours  Mr Whitlam  had with Prime Minister Sato, our Ambassador,  Mr Freeth  was present. These people reported back in full to Canberra. Does anybody deny that? The Prime Minister must know that the Prime Minister of Japan thanked  Mr Whitlam  for what he had said about the Japanese and nuclear weapons. 
The Leader of the Opposition has authorised me to make this statement in regard to the Philippines.  Mr Whitlam  is claimed to have offended the Government of the Philippines. Normally, one would not have quoted what I am about to quote, but there must be an end to this campaign of vilification and misrepresentation of the Leader of the Opposition. This is a letter from General Romulo, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines. He wrote on 2nd August 1971: 
Dear  Mr Whitlam,  It was a real pleasure to welcome you to Manila and to be able to get first hand your statesmanlike views on many matters of mutual interest to our 2 countries. May I say that we in the Philippines would welcome the visit of more Australian leaders with your grasp of Pacific problems which 1  so admired during your conversations. 
Do honourable members on the Government side deny that? This is a letter from General Romulo, who was Secretary of the Foreign Affairs Department in the Philippines. It does not contain the smear or the innuendoes of allegation by the Prime Minister. Let us put an end to this. I am sick to death of this type of politics. It is about time that we in the Australian Labor Party and honourable members in the Government ranks dealt with foreign affairs in a rational manner. It is time that we stopped this hysteria, because the only way that we can solve our problems is to build bridges of friendship with the people to our north. We have to make the people of Australia feel secure - that there is no fear of the great masses to the north. The Leader of the Opposition has done what the Australian Government should have done - trying to build a bridge with China. Of course, the Prime Minister does not dare to attack  President  Nixon in public. By attacking the Leader of the Opposition he is also doing his best to sabotage the hopes of the people of the world, and the talks between  President  Nixon and Chou En-lai earlier next year. Let us get down to some rational policy. It is time that honourable members in this Parliament look at the question of the recognition of .the People's Republic of China to bring it into its rightful place in the United Nations - to bring it into the Security Council. Over 60 countries have already recognised China and have diplomatic relations with China. Australia should establish diplomatic relations with China now. Our future lies with that of China and Asia. The Government used hysteria in the 1966 general election campaign. Where do we draw the line? Do we draw it in Vietnam? Of course, the arrows in pamphlet drawings and on television denote the downward thrust from China. Where do we fight them? On their shores, or do we fight them on our shores? Of course, we know the propaganda which was put out showing an Australian soldier drawing a rickshaw and a Chinese man with an Australian girl. This racism, this fear, this sickness has to stop. Surely the rational attitude of the Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party delegation to China was a bridge of friendship. Surely this visit by Labor Party members assisted to prepare the way for  President  Nixon's visit to China. 
In the few minutes remaining to me, I wish to deal with the great question of Taiwan. Is there any chance of a 2-China policy? I wish to quote the 'Canberra Times' of 19th August 1971. Lord Trevelyan, president of the Royal Institute of International Affairs who is giving a series of Dyason Lectures, was reported as follows: 
There was no chance at all of China taking a seat in the UN along with Taiwan. . . . 'There is no question of Taiwan being expelled from the UN', he added. 'Taiwan is not a member.' 
The article went on to say: 
Nor is there any doubt in his mind that Taiwan is part of China. . . . Admission of Taiwan, as sought by the US and Australian Governments, would require Security Council approval and a two-thirds vote of the General Assembly which in his opinion could not be mustered. 
Is it again a smoke screen? For 22 years the Government would not recognise China. Now when it knows it is a fait accompli it says that it wants a 2-China policy. Who has decided on a 2-China policy? After all, Chiang Kai-shek says there is one China. Mao Tse-tung says there is one China. Have honourable members opposite examined the question of Taiwan? (Extension of time granted.) 
There is only one China. Chiang Kaishek said that Taiwan is a province of China. Mao tse-tung said that Taiwan is a province of China. If one examines the question of Tibet, both Chiang Kai-shek in Taiwan says that Tibet is a province of China and Mao tse-tung in Peking says that Tibet is a province of China. If one examines the McMahon line on the IndiaChina border dispute of 1962, one notes there is no difference between the policies of Nationalist China and the People's Republic of China. They were agreed on this matter. The Leader of the Opposition pointed this out recently. 
The question that is inflaming the people of Australia is: Will we sell out the people of Taiwan? It has been represented for a long time that the 14 million people on Taiwan will be sold out to slavery if we recognise the People's Republic of China. Let us examine without emotion the facts. In the event of the People's Republic of China being admitted to the UN, I take it that the Nationalist Chinese Government on Taiwan will be expelled. This does not mean that the US Seventh Fleet will not still defend the strait between China and Taiwan. Of course it will remain there. It is the 7th Fleet that will defend the people of Taiwan. It will be a matter for negotiation between the People's Republic of China in Peking and for the Chiang Kai-shek Government on Taiwan. Of course, it may be that the people of Taiwan themselves may determine their own affairs. But does the Minister for Foreign Affairs deny that at the Cairo Conference of 1943 men of the callibre of Churchill, Roosevelt and Chiang Kai-shek agreed that Taiwan was a province of China? Prior to this, of course, for a good many years the Japanese had ruled Taiwan. Has this Government now repudiated Roosevelt, Churchill and Chiang Kai-shek? Who are honourable members on the Government side to determine that there are two Chinas? There is one China. Who are they to make up the mind of Chiang Kai-shek? What special, god-like authority have honourable members on the Government side? Who has gifted them? Why is it that after 22 years of negative thought they now determine that there are 2 Chinas? They know, in fact, that the People's Republic will be recognised as the rightful Government of China and will take its place in the Security Council. They know that it will take its rightful place in the United Nations and the General Assembly. They know, as Lord Trevelyan said, that their system, the new 2-China policy, would have to get a two-third majority vote in order to be accepted, and that this is an impossibility. Yet this is the attitude taken by the Government of the day. It is a government of hypocrisy. For 22 years it has tried to confuse the Australian people. Now we have come to a position of realism and  President  Nixon has decided to go to China. There has to be a face saving formula, whether it be for the Government of the United States of America or the Australian Government. The Government is trying to find this formula. Australia has been trying to find a face saving formula for far too long. It is time Australia sought a better relationship with China. It is time we woke up to the fact that one quarter of the world's population cannot be ignored. 
I was in China in 1960. I would bc one of the first people to recognise the dogma of the Chinese Government in Peking. When I was in China hysteria was building up about the taking of their territory, Taiwan. The Chinese said that they had already defeated the paper tiger - the United States of America - in Korea and they could take the territory of Taiwan if they wanted to. I argued against doing this. I said: 'There are men in the United States who want to use atomic and nuclear weapons against you'. I met Kuo Mo-jo, who was the head of the cultural bureau. He is a man of stature in the Chinese Government. I said to him: 'Do you mean to say if you cannot get your territory, Taiwan, by peaceful means, you will take military action to gain it? I am aware that there had been over 100 meetings between China and the United States in Warsaw.' Kuo Mo-jo replied:  'Mr Uren,  we have waited 100 years for the liberation of China. We can wait a few minutes more for the liberation of our territory of Taiwan'. There is no doubt that a fear of the United States is worrying China. If I may say so, I think it is a false fear, although the conflict in Vietnam has probably led the Chinese to think that they should fear the United States. After all, China does not have troops right on the border of the United States. But be that as it may, a new bridge is to be built by  President  Nixon. It will be a move in the right direction for so many people in the world. 
The delegation led by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  was a step towards sanity. He should be commended by this House for his action. He should not be the subject of cheap party politics. I for one commend the Leader of the Opposition and the Australian Labor Party for taking the initiative. I hope that the House will support the amendment I have moved to the motton. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Is excessive population, both with regard to total numbers and rates of growth, one of the major causes of the widespread environmental destruction of the earth today? 
Is he able to say whether it is the opinion of many ecologists that the maximum number of people that the earth can support indefinitely is 1,000 million, and that the present population of about 3,700 million could increase to 7,000 million by the end of the century? 
If so, is it possible for Australia to aid the world population problem (a) by the avoidance of mistakes of other countries and by planning for a numerically rational and highly educated population; (b) by using our educational research and financial resources to help other countries solve their population problems and (c) by using our extensive food producing potential to produce food for other countries? 
Is it a fact that the present taxes on birth control devices are not in Australia's long-term population interests and that, in addition, they discriminate against poor people and their right to limit the size of their own families? 
If so, will the Government consider (a) the immediate abolition of taxes on all devices designed to limit population and the inclusion of such items under the National Health Scheme and (b) the setting up of an inquiry into the need for abortion reform in Territories under the control of the Commonwealth? 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has announced that Australian troops will be withdrawn from Vietnam by Christmas. Of course, this has brought a great deal of joy to many people throughout Australia, particularly those boys who are eligible for national service call-up. But I remind the House tonight that there are at least 2 young men in Australian gaols who are in fact political prisoners. I refer to Charles Martin in Adelaide and Geoffrey Mullen in New South Wales. It is time we gave this question some consideration. I think that this Government should release these 2 young men. They are not conscientious objectors in the full sense of that term. They have not sought exemption from the provisions of the National Service Act as conscientious objectors. They are opposed to going to Vietnam because they were opposed to the war in Vietnam. Therefore this Parliament should call on the Government to release these 2 young men from gaol. It does not matter under which banner you put it, they are political prisoners. 
We know that since national service was introduced some 43,000 young men have failed to register but only a handful of men have had action taken against them. This Government has been particularly careful not to affect too many people by its actions in order to lessen the repercussions against it. Apart from Charles Martin and Geoffrey Mullen there are at present 12 young men who have refused to comply with the National Service Act. Summonses have been served on them as conscription resisters, and within a few months there could be in fact 14 young men being held in prisons in Australia. The 12 young men to whom I refer are Paul Fox, Ian Turner, Tony Dalton, Michael Hamel Green, Karl Armstrong and Laurie Carmichael from Victoria, Peter Hornby, Jerry Gilling and Mike Matteson from New South Wales, Robert Hall from South Australia, Garry Cook from Western Australia and Steve padgan from the Australian Capital Territory. It seems to me that, in the 1970s, these young men should not be threatened with gaol because they have taken a moral stand and refused to be conscripted to serve in a war such as the Vietnam war. 
Not only Australia but also the world knows how unpopular this war has been. No matter what conflict Australia has been involved in in the past, Australia has not found it difficult to encourage the youth of the nation to come forward and to make themselves available for service. But the Vietnam war is an unpopular war. Confusion exists amongst people because of the corrupt regime in Vietnam. We have been involved in the war for many long years. Australia has been involved in Vietnam since May 1962. For many years one was not sure from week to week which government ruled South Vietnam. It was like a game of musical chairs. One government would be overthrown by a coup and so on. 
The position today is still unstable. Gen,eral Minh who, with the assistance of the 
Americans, was responsible for the overthrow of the Diem regime has refused to stand in the forthcoming presidential election. Vice-President Ky who was feted at Kirribilli House in Sydney by the then Treasurer, now the Prime Minister, has refused to stand in this election because he has said that it is rigged. It has been revealed publicly now, although I have been saying it for years, that the Government led by President Thieu is a minority government; it had the support of 34 per cent only of the population at the last general election. Now. President Thieu is falling into some disrepute with the United States of America and it is revealed that his government is a minority one. These are some of the factors which have made the Vietnam war unpopular. The youth of our nation has no confidence in the Australian Government. This is demonstrated by the fact that not enough volunteers came forward for Army service and the Government had to introduce conscription to make 'fodder' available for Vietnam. 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  who is sitting at the table, knows that 500- 
asked  the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recommendation of  President  Nixon of 8th February 1971 that, as  a  first step towards the institution of disamenity charges on products known to be environmental hazards,  a  charge be imposed on lead additives in petrol and sulphur dioxide released to the atmosphere? 
Is it  a fact  that because the Commonwealth holds all the major taxing powers,  it  has the power, which  is  denied the States,  of  instituting taxes  on  a wide variety of chemicals known to be environmentally destructive, and that the levying of such a tax would have the effect of encouraging  the  research and development of alternatives which are less environmentally hazardous? 
Are there any objections which prevent the Commonwealth  (a)  from passing legislation on  a  wide variety of environmental issues in Commonwealth territories which legislation would serve as  a  model for the States and (b) from levying pollution taxes in the States as well as in Commonwealth territories based on emission levels and using the tax collections to provide grants to the States to help them measure and police their pollution laws? 
Will he consider including in the next Budget pollution taxes on (a) lead in petrol (b) sulphur dioxide, (c) pollutants from cars such as carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and oxides  of  nitrogen, (d) particulates emitted from chimneys, (e) arsenic and heavy metals such as mercury, lead and cadmium, (f) persistent pesticide such as DDT and (g) polychlorinated biphenyls, which are pollutants themselves, or  on  their manufacture, such as the manufacture of poly-vinyl chloride, the disposal of which causes much environmental damage? 
Will he have compiled  a  complete list of chemical elements and compounds known to be environmentally destructive so that  a  thorough examination of the impact of a pollution tax can be carried out? 
Does the decision to postpone the establishment of the Office of the Environment indicate that in the Government's view the Commonwealth need not play a leading and co-ordinating role in the development of  a  rational environmental policy or that the role is unimportant? 
asked the Minister for Trade  and Industry, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in the review of the operation of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act? 
Will the review assess the social as well as the economic utility of the research that industry has been encouraged to undertake under the Act? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The serious decline in social services has intensified the hardships faced by pensioners and familieson lower incomes. 
Therefore as a matter of urgency the Commonwealth Government should immediately allocate extra finance to social services. 
The petition of the undersigned urges your Government to increase immediately 
Pensions - by $5.00 per week. 
Child Endowment - to $3.60 per week per child. 
Maternity Allowance - to at least $117 for each child born. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He has set out the deficiencies, the inequalities and the sectional aspects of this Budget. As the spokesman for the Australian Labor Party on housing, urban affairs and environment I was appalled that the McMahon Government continues to accord housing a low priority in Government policy. In regard to the cities it seems that the McMahon Government does not consider them to be its responsibility and continues to imagine that all will be well. It is my view that there is an even greater crisis in our cities than exists in the rural areas, even though their position is catastrophic. I want to deal in detail with matters relating to housing at a later stage. I will deal with economic and social welfare matters during the debate on the Estimates. During this debate I want to deal with matters relating to the environment. There was no mention in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  of these matters directly, and those matters which were indirectly related will only worsen the situation and aggravate our problems. 
The newly appointed Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  would be better described as the Minister for spare parts. This exemplifies the Government's priorities on the environment. During the parliamentary recess I represented the Parliament and my Party on a parliamentary working committee on the environment at Bonn, Germany. It was a challenging experience. Because it is difficult to have a debate on such a topic in this Parliament I intend to devote my comments in this debate to the problems of the environment. We are now becoming aware, perhaps just in time, although there seems to be some doubt in regard to the McMahon Government, that we are now face to face with the greatest problem man has ever faced, that of his own survival. I am not referring to his self-destruction by the bomb' for we have been concerned about that for some time, but 2 other Bs which have joined 'the bomb' to threaten the survival of man. We now have 3 Bs - bombs, babies and bulldozers. 
In 8000 B.C. we had an estimated population of 5 million people on planet earth. In 1650 A.D. we had an estimated population of 500 million. In 1930 it was 2,000 million. By 1975 we will have 4,000 million. By the turn of the century we will have over 7,000 million. By the year 2035 it is estimated that the world population will be 14,000 million. It took one million years for man to reach the present population. He will double that population in 30 years. I ask all honourable members to pause and give thought to the magnitude of such a population explosion. I question whether we can afford to continue to plunder and exploit our planet in the manner in which we are doing. Can Australia allow the plundering of its natural resources that has been occurring, particularly in the last decade. 
Can we afford to allow less than 10 per cent of the world's population to use more than 50 per cent of the world's resources annually. Most of the world's resources are limited. If we continue at the rate we are consuming them they will be consumed within 50 years. New discoveries will only keep pace with population expansion. It does not matter if man's value system - and I even include the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who is at the table - is Communist, Fascist, Conservative, Liberal or Socialist, he faces a global crisis based on the fact that his population increase, his squandering of natural resources, his control of food production, his accelerated urbanisation and his release of a wide variety of toxic substances into the environment are directing him on a collision course with disaster. Scientists predicted over a century and a half ago that man would face famine because of the different ways by which man's population increased and his food production increased. Marxists and capitalists alike ridiculed this theory because of the inability to predict technological innovation. The fact of life is that this is a challenge today to both Marxist and capitalist. The obvious ways by which man's population could be limited were wars, lack of food and infectious disease. To that list we can add the depletion of natural resources and pollution in all its forms. 
Medical research has reduced the dangers of infectious disease and this has added to the population crisis, but now pollution is beginning to take its toll. We know of many small disasters due to heavy metal poisoning, particularly mercury. A recent 6-year study of mortality rates in New York indicates that one death in 8 in that city over that period was brought on by air pollution and 51 per cent of all hypertensive heart disease deaths were caused by air pollution. A century ago one-third of the world population was malnourished or under-nourished. Even with our vast increase in food production the relative figure today is worse and because of the huge total population increase the total number of starving people is much greater. 
Recently an American academic,  Dr Jay  Forrester, wrote a book titled 'World Dynamics'. Here he has set up what he calls a world system in which he has a computer model which predicts how the levels of population, pollution, natural resources, capital investment and quality of life, will change over the next 130 years. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said on the floor of the House on 17th August: 
We are, after all, searching for a quality of life which will be better than the one we have today. 
Let me tell him that his interest in the quality of life has come a little late considering what his Government, of which he shared leadership for the last 22 years, has done. Surely his comments are only mouthing jargon or hypocrisy. Where is the action taken in the Budget to support such a cliche? It is indeed a little late. 

 Dr Forrester tells us that we have just passed through a golden age and from now on the quality of life will decline if the present patterns continue. He shows that an inevitable pollution crisis which will cause the death of 83 per cent of the world's population will follow and that it will predominantly affect developed countries rather than developing countries. He indicates that the doomsday principle, death by pollution, will get us before the argued principle of lack of food. Forrester says that to ensure man's survival as we know him we must immediately, on a global scale, undertake the following steps now: Firstly, a reduction of 30 per cent in the birthrate; secondly, a reduction of 50 per cent in pollution generation; thirdly, a reduction of 75 per cent in our rate of use of natural resources; fourthly, a reduction of 40 per cent in capital investment generation; and fifthly, a reduction of food production by 20 per cent. 
My own personal view is that Australia should drastically cut her immigration programme. We should question whether it is in the interest of Australia to continue our assisted immigration programme in view of the pressure of immigration on the States, on education, on health and our hospitals, on local government, on spiralling land and housing costs; in fact on all aspects of government. I come now to the burden of education. The Australian Education Council estimated in a nation-wide survey of education needs that the States will be $ 1,443m short of required finance for the years 1971 to 1975. 
There is also the question of the burden of State, local and semi-government finance. In the last 2 decades the cost of servicing the loan burden has increased over 400 per cent in the States; over 1,400 per cent in local government and over 2,000 per cent in semi-governmental authorities. Spiralling land costs in the Sydney area alone - the most populous of Australia's urban areas - has increased by nearly 200 per cent in the last 10 years and is now increasing by more than 20 per cent a year. Need 1 mention the chaos in our health and hospital systems? We have to ponder not only our population increase but also our increased immigration intake. The political acceptability of these proposals may be used by some to kick the sectional can but they point clearly to the immensity of the challenge facing us. 
What can we do in Australia, our part of the world? We in Australia are uniquely suited for giving the rest of the world a lead. We have a small educated population and large resources. The ratio of population to resources is important for the quality of life. Japan, contrary to the belief of some, is not an exception, for it buys resources from others and uses them at a rapid rate creating one of the largest pollution problems in the world. Let us remember that despite what most of the advertising industry tries to convince us of, our primary purpose here on this planet is surely not to maximise our consumption of resources. If all the people on earth had such an opportunity we would have had a pollution crisis much earlier than we have. Such a crisis would have occurred if the people of India had the same standards of living as we have. 
So let Australia set an example. Let us plan rational new cities of human dimensions and high quality. Already our largest cities are too big and the increasing size is resulting in a decline in the quality of life for each resident of the city. The problems of rural industry give the Commonwealth the opportunity to purchase back large tracts of land for other resource uses, including national parks, wilderness areas and mining reserves. Many of the semiarid areas should never have been grazed, and there are many parts of our inland which have been ecologically ruined by man's activity. We should consider what our optimum population should be. Let us make sure that our optimum population is based on long-term ecological goals not short-term economic ones which involve the non-rational use of resources at a very high rate. 
Our food production, for example, has increased by our switching from horsedrawn equipment to power-driven equipment. That means that land which once was used to produce hay now can be used for food production for humans. But in doing so we are now driving our farm machinery with energy from oil rather than with energy trapped by plants from the sun. All our oil will be gone within SO years. That we will have alternative comparable sources of energy is by no means guaranteed. In the meantime we use up more calories in oil in cultivating, tilling and harvesting than we actually harvest as food. Thus we are supporting a higher population by cashing in on energy banks which will soon be empty. 
Australia has a highly literate and educated population. Let us be the leader in moves for a good global environment policy and let us work for population control, pollution control and a rational rate of use of natural resources. Let us use our considerable research potential to work on many of the immense problems facing us in the area. In the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation we already have a large research organisation which is capable of attacking many of these problems and which, because of the present state of rural industry, is now engaged in finding a new direction for itself. These problems include such areas as resource recycling and substitution, population controls, better ecosys.tems management, better urban planning and design and problems within man himself such as the roots of disruptive human behaviour and racism. Many of our largest problems are social as well as physical, psychological and biological. 
Let us concentrate on our education system so that within a generation we can create a generation of Australians with values which are compatible with concepts of a global home which is very limited in its capacity to withstand abuse, and away from concepts based on the unlimited frontier. We have to act now, and in a massive new way. Otherwise, with present economic policies and value systems, we will continue to make mistakes that many people in other countries have made in the past. Now that a Federal Department of the Environment has been established, we should define immediately the optimum human environment by a series of goals towards which the Federal and State agencies should work. Thus grants of money for research and development and the choice of how resources, minerals, water, urban and rural land, to name a few, are used, will conform to the highest national priorities. 
Legislation should be passed by the Commonwealth in relation to the Australian Capital Territories and other Territories. These Acts should be comprehensive, cover the whole human, physical and psychological environment. They will serve as models for legislation which may bc passed by the States. Federal grants should be made to encourage the passage of legislation within the States. The Commonwealth has power to levy taxes. It can strive for uniformity by levying special taxes on pollution, by tax incentives and, if necessary, a tax surcharge to encourage pollution control, and by giving grants to States, local and semi-government authorities to ensure a system of policing the environment effort. We should look at our population policy at home and decide on what kind of total population increase, natural and immigrant, our environment can handle over a long period. 
Once legislation has been passed by the Commonwealth and by all States, a joint Commonwealth and State authority should administer pollution and environmental control. Joint co-operation at all levels of government can conquer, control and rectify, and make our Australia beautiful. The Budget is a regressive one. It makes no progressive reform. It takes no action in regard to pollution or environmental control. It gives the Government no power to deal with the real crisis in housing. It does not deal in any shape or form with the crisis in our cities. For that reason we on this side of the House have been critical of the Budget. Surely it is necessary for the Commonwealth to give leadership in these fields. That has been long overdue. 
It is not much good the Prime Minister mouthing words, saying that we should have a better quality of life, unless the Government takes positive action. If it does take such action then possibly we will be able to solve some of the problems confronting us in the survival of mankind. The challenge is not parochial or sectional. We are a part of the human race. We are all part of space ship earth. Unless we learn to live together we will in the long run perish together or there may be, as so many people have feared in the past, a war between the haves and the have nots. There will be a struggle for survival between those with a high standard of living and those who live an impoverished life. It is for this reason that I have made these few comments. I hope that they have not fallen on deaf ears. I hope that some positive action will be taken by the Government and that it has not appointed a Minister for the Environment just to detract from the criticism of the conditions existing in this country. For this reason I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition and T hope the Parliament will support it too. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Is sufficient land already cleared to enable ' Australia to provide for her own people and all potential exports. 
Are current taxation policies encouraging the clearing of virgin land at a time when rural industries are in a state of decline. 
Is it a fact that because of these policies virgin land, which would have a great future as national parks or hardwood forests, is being cleared to provide financial gain for a few individuals. 
If so, will he immediately consider taking, steps to alter the tax provisions and, in their place, institute such policies as will encourage the planting by private individuals of both softwood and hardwood forests on some of our cleared land. 
Will he also consider the immediate cessation of further clearing of Commonwealth-owned crown land for any purpose including the planting of softwood timber species until a comprehensive overview of all such land is taken and the various alternatives for its use have been examined. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that 47 per cent or $355m of the money allocated for works, and housing ia 1969-70 came from Commonwealth revenue. 
If so, what portion of it was allocated to housing. 
What was the interest rate payable by the States to construct low cost housing. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What percentage of successful applicants for War Service Homes finance had to seek a second mortgage during 1970-71. 
What was the average interest rate paid on these second mortgages. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What was the average cost of a dwelling financed through the New South Wales Division of War Service Homes in 1970-71. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth and State Housing Ministers have failed to reach agreement on the new Commonwealth-State housing offer set out in the Treasurer's Budget Speech? Was the agreement in accord with the Prime Minister's pledge that he intended to create a better CommonwealthState relationship? Was the new proposal a take it or leave it proposition? Is the immigration policy of the Commonwealth, which continues to place pressures on the States, one of the reasons for the refusal of the States to accept the proposed new agreement? Is the Prime Minister aware that the policy of the Commonwealth which resulted in increased interest rates on finance for housing in the private and public sectors in April 1970 aggravated the problems of the States and made it impossible for an increasing number of young people to meet the deposit gap and repayments necessary in purchasing a home? Are these people turning now in greater numbers to register with State housing authorities to enable them to secure homes in which to rear families? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I want to clarify the position. I said to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  that any comment of support that I have given Castro I do not wish to withdraw. I made certain statements in this House in 1960 during a debate on a Bill dealing with the employment of waterside workers. I will stand by those statements. I do not wish to withdraw them. That is my position. I hope that tonight I will have an opportunity to speak. I hope that the debate is not gagged before I am given an opportunity  to  speak. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Last week, I asked the Prime Minister a question in regard to the policy of the Commonwealth in April 1970 of placing greater pressure on the States, particularly in regard to housing in the public and private sector. The Prime Minister did not reply in any way to my question. I now seek that reply. Would he agree that the economy is headed for difficulties or that a downturn in the economy is likely to occur? Would he agree that a reduction in interest rates for housing loans would give a stimulus to the housing industry, the States and the economy as a whole? Will he direct the Reserve Bank of Australia to reduce interest rates on housing loans to assist the housing industry and the economy and to help young people to construct homes? 
I rise this evening to answer the criticism levelled by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  against the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  who raised a matter of public importance in this House last Thursday night when he referred to the joint defence space research facility, as it was called I the Minister for Defence, at Pine Gap. On 3rd September 1971 the 'Australian' referred to revelations about this matter in the United States of America. The article is headed: 'Nuclear bullseye in the dead Centre'. It reads as follows: 
Australia's silent Centre is now a target in global nuclear warfare - a giant 'sounding board' in the US cold war with Russia and China. The United States has been, quietly buttoning Australia into its global nuclear arc while, ironically, beginning to withdraw US troops from Asia. But its Australian arc remains very much 'go'. 
The United States, in fact, has at least 28 secret bases in Australia and its territories - all planted during Australian Government evasions and protestations of 'joint control'. They include Pine Gap (approximate cost $200m), near Alice Springs. 
This evening the Minister said that he would not give out any information about this matter. It is well known that this article was written by a very reputable and well-known journalist, a  Mr Philip  J. Klass who is a correspondent for the 'Aviation Week Space Technology' in America. Everything that this writer discloses was available in publications in the United States. There was no secrecy at all there. Yet this Government shrouds the matter in secrecy in this Parliament. The Minister for Defence said that the honourable member for Sturt wanted to raise the matter because he is a near pacifist. Surely in this day and age we have to take the secrecy out of government and we have to inform the people whether bases or installations are to be established in Australia that could threaten mankind. If this is an early warning system in defence of the United States it could involve Australia in a nuclear war. Fear has been built up. The United States and the Soviet Union have enough explosives to kill and overkill mankind 25 times. The honourable member for Sturt asked this Government to inform the people of the problems that could arise. The Australian' disclosed that there are at least 28 secret bases. We know about the North West Cape base because we sought details about the purpose of the base. 
 At the time it was to be secret. The Minister who interjected was not a member of this House then. From March 1961 to 1963 I asked questions. All by the time evasive replies were given. We were trying to seek information and details about that base. Eventually it was disclosed - in journals again - that continuing messages had been sent from the United States by high frequency signals to that base. One of these messages could be an instruction to fire. There they were transferred to a very low frequency and sent to submerged submarines. Each submarine had 16 Polaris missiles. These missiles were not directed against military targets in southern Russia or China but were a population deterrent. If it were good enough for the United States to fire missiles at Soviet and Chinese cities, probably those countries would retaliate. I have no doubt that in the event of war our cities would be under threat. 
Let us take the hysteria out of it. Let us take the name calling out of it. We are at least moving a little towards rational discussion. We should be taking the jingoistic attitude out of this fear complex about having to watch the Chinese and where do we draw the. line. Do we have a fight in Vietnam or a fight on our shores mentality? Do we bring out the propaganda, which has been brought out previously by the hysteria of the Liberal Party, of a good old digger in a digger's hat drawing a rickshaw containing an Asian with a nice blonde Australian girl? That mentality is out. Let us deal with this matter on a rational basis. If there are installations in Australia that may embroil us in a nuclear war or may be a target in a nuclear war, we have no guarantees. The Minister spoke about a joint defence space base. I would like him to give to the House any information which he has. We are entitled to know how we share the responsibilities of this joint defence space research facility. My Party wants this information. We want the secrecy taken out of it. We want to know what our responsibilities are. My Party at its recent Federal Conference carried a decision dealing with Pine Gap and Woomera in these terms: 
Conference protests at the Federal Government's refusal to inform the Parliament and public of the general purposes and possible consequences of the joint defence installations and facilities at Pine Gap and Woomera. It deplores the Government's action in not offering or agreeing to deny access to Australian members of Parliament. Conference also protests that the full  details and implications of the proposed Omega communications stations have also been denied to the Parliament and people. 
This was a decision made at the last Federal Conference of my Party in Launceston. We are asking for information and details. We are asking that the secrecy be taken off. If these details are written about, talked about and explained in American technical journals it is good enough that the Australian Parliament  b  informed of the details. That is what we are seeking. All that the honourable member for Sturt sought was information. We do not want government by secrecy. We want to know what is happening. We want to know what our country is being involved in. We do not want to start any name calling or hysteria. All we are asking in simple language and in a low tone is: What is the Government doing in this year of 1971? Is it still a government of secrecy or are we to be informed of the details an  J  implications of matters in which we may be involved? That is all that the honourable member for Sturt wanted to know - nothing more, nothing less. But no information has been given to this House. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, this statement is long overdue, but its findings are disappointing. The interdepartmental committee was set up on 14th January 1969 and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has had its report since September 1970. In other words, he has been sitting on it for over a year. Now, the final decision rests between 2 proposals - Somersby and Richmond. 
I do not profess to be an expert on where the second airport for Sydney should be located. We know that, with the progress of technology, aircraft have created great noise problems. The noise caused by aircraft is of concern to all progressive members in this House. Tonight, my colleagues, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  and, of course, the Federal spokesman for our Party on matters of civil aviation, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  have expressed their attitudes to the proposal. 
I will not debate where the second airport for Sydney should be located. But, in my capacity as Federal spokesman for my Party on urban affairs, I am going to say where it should not be. The honourable member for Robertson has expressed strong criticism in regard to the proposal that the airport should not be located at Somersby. I do not know the details of this proposal but I do know the problems in planning urban affairs particularly in regard to the closer Sydney area. When I talk about the 'closer Sydney area' I refer to regions within 40 miles or 50 miles of Sydney. 
In regard to Richmond, this is probably the best residential area in large quantity now available near Sydney. I think of the rolling hills of Kurmond and the lowe Kurrajong Heights area. I think of the land across from there to the Nepean River and the lower Blue Mountains and further to the Penrith area. In another direction, across to Blacktown, most of the area is virgin land. Sydney, above any other city in the whole of Australia, has a land crisis. Land values in Sydney are the highest of any city in Australia. They exceed by thousands of dollars the average cost of land in other States. The average price of a block of land in Sydney at the present time is $7,800. 
We find that the ruling interest rate of the fringe banking institutions is 13 per cent or 13.5 per cent. We can imagine the struggle facing young people who wish to acquire a piece of land on which to build a home in which to rear a family. Therefore, I arn totally opposed to the proposal that the second airport for Sydney should be located at Richmond. This does not mean that my view will predominate over that of my Party. The policy of my Party is that the proposed department of Urban Affairs should act as a liaison body and will determine the siting of airports. Of course, we would be influenced greatly by the views of the Department of Civil Aviation and particularly those of my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  We would work in close co-operation. I say quite clearly that I personally am opposed to the siting of an airport at Richmond. 
The policy of my Party on urban affairs will be to maintain a liaison between the Department of Housing, the Department of Shipping and Transport, the Department of Civil Aviation, the Department of the Interior, the Department of Works, the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. As I see it Sydney will develop north-west from Blacktown across to the lower Blue Mountains to Kurmond where the rolling hills are and where it is proposed that the airport be situated. Sydney will also develop south-west - in other words, along the railway line and the Hume Highway towards Campbelltown and beyond. This matter must be examined in this way. It is the policy of the Labor Party to acquire large tracts of land on the fringes of Sydney to set up Belconnen type cities, such as we have in Canberra, with all the cultural, educational, artistic, aesthetic, sporting, recreational, commercial and industrial areas established so that workers can live within an area and be employed within the area without having to travel 25 and 30 miles to work, lt is for this reason that we are calling on the Government to heed the warning that a Labor government would strongly oppose the location of an airport at Richmond. To my mind noise pollution would destroy the area as it has the electorates of my colleagues who have spoken tonight. 
We have to do some planning, but there is very little planning being carried out by the Government. In fact, we know that there is little co-operation between the Department of Civil Aviation and the New South Wales State Planning Authority or any other planning authority. Where in any way has the Commonwealth Government involved itself in urban planning? We have to look at the location of airports, and as far as I am concerned the location of an airport at Richmond is not acceptable. It would not be in the best interests of Sydney because, as this Government knows, Sydney is facing a dire crisis. It is in great difficulties because of the rise in land costs, and even greater difficulties would be created if the land within the Richmond area were used for the proposed airport. I understand that Richmond is the major priority with the Government, but it would inherit the already chaotic conditions of the Marrickville area and in the electorates of those honourable members on this side who have already spoken in this debate. We want to see the creation of cities in which the people can live in serenity and tranquility without being bothered by noise pollution caused by aircraft, irrespective of whether they are landing and taking off during the day or night. Of course, we realise that the Government's plans for a new airport provide that it will be functional for 24 hours a day. I have placed on record my attitude towards the establishment of an airport in the Richmond area. My opposition is total. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 do not think that I overstate the case, but I believe that all honourable members in this House are proud of Canberra. We may have our criticisms, but Canberra is one of Australia's finest achievements. However, I question why we have not repeated our achievements in other parts of Australia. Why do we hide behind the pretence that it is a State responsibility to develop our cities - whether they be capital or provincial cities or country towns? Why is it in a land such as ours that young people are unable to acquire a block of land at a price within their economic means, to build a house and to raise a family? Why is land available in Canberra at a reasonable price, but at a prohibitive price elsewhere? Why is there a crisis in land prices? That crisis varies from city to city and from State to State but the price of land is at crisis level in Sydney. Perth and Melbourne, and it is moving upwards in other capital cities and in provincial and regional areas. lt is difficult to ascertain any official Government statistical data but I have been able to obtain from the research service of the Parliamentary Library a table showing movements in index numbers of the average cost of land on which houses have been financed under the War Services Homes Act compared with movements in index numbers of average weekly earnings. The table covers the period from 1949-50 to 1969-70. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate that table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="074131197109281_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

New series. 
<para pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service from ' information (i) obtained from the War Service Homes Division of the Department of Housing and (ii) contained in issues of the Labour Report and Average Weekly Earnings, published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
An examination of the table shows that, using 100 in 1949-50 as the base, the average cost of land in New South Wales on which dwellings constructed and financed by the War Service Homes Division rose to 1,261 in 1969-70. The average weekly earnings in this period rose from a base of 100 to 392. The price of land in New South Wales rose 3 times as much as average weekly earnings rose. This is a conservative estimate, because land in the community generally averages much more in cost than land used by the War Service Homes Division. In Western Australia War Service Homes land rose from 1.00 to 1,028, which is 2£ times greater than the increase in earnings. Only one State, Tasmania, showed a similar rate of increase in land prices and average weekly earnings. Recently 2 private organisations have made a survey of land prices: The Economic Research Department of the Housing Industry Association, located in Melbourne, made a survey which it called: 'A Study of Land Costs in Australia'. Also the Australian Institute of Urban Studies, which is located in Canberra, recently held a seminar on the price of land.  
The Housing Industry Association report in August 1971 reveals* 'Broad acre prices in the Sydney area increased by 350 per cent between 1959 and 1969'. The report also reveals that the average selling price of land in Sydney rose from $3,200 in 1960 to $8,000 in 1970. That is an increase of 150 per cent. I might add that the average price of land in Sydney now is between $7,800 and $8,000 a block. In Melbourne the average price rose from $3,000 a block to $4,700. The report gives details of the increased price of land in suburbs of Sydney. In Penrith in 1969 a block of land cost $2,500 and in 1971 it had increased to $6,000, an increase in 3 years of 140 per cent. At Blacktown during the same period the price of a block of land rose from $3,300 to $6.500- an increase of 97 per cent. In Campbelltown during the same period it rose from $2,800 to S7.50O  -  an increase of 1 68 per cent. 1 speak now of my own experience. I acquired land 2 decades ago at Guildford, near Parramatta, where I still reside, for $224. It would cost at least $7,500 to purchase a block of land in the same suburb today. Let me now examine certain details revealed in the report of the Aus tralian Institute of Urban Studies in relation to land in Perth. Quoting from the Mccarrey  report, the  Instil Institute's report said: 
Between 1956 and 1967 the average price of building lots in 4 diverse areas of Perth rose by 351 per cent (15 per cent per annum compound), 360 per cent (15 per cent), 443 per cent (17 per cent) and 402 per cent (16 per cent) respectively. Over the same period the minimum weekly award rate for adult males rose by 40 per cent (3 per cent compound). 
Members of the task force which compiled the report of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies had diverse interests. Of them the  President  of the Institute,  Sir John  Overall, said: 
A group of responsible men from different States and diverse fields met on a pressing urban problem. 

 Sir John commended their decision for careful attention. Members of the task force were Professor R. C. Gates of the University of Queensland,  Mr D.  P. Cartwright, Director of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies,  Mr C.  S. Dyson, past  President  of the Real Estate Institute of New South Wales, and  Mr V.  E. Jennings, Managing Director of A. V. Jennings Industries (Australia) Ltd of Melbourne. Two aspects of their findings relating to a programme of action and acquisition of land are worth quoting. The report stated: 
The authority should acquire well in advance large areas of raw land suitable for future urban development. By acquiring well in advance the authorities would probably be able to get the land at prices not much greater than rural values and without having recourse to resumption. Land thus acquired would normally be held until ripe and then disposed of to private subdividers on suitable conditions; but if private subdividers are not satisfactory in price,  timing and quality, the  public authority should reserve the right to subdivide and sell the land. 
A further programme of action was proposed in these words: 
To relieve the pressure on land prices, transportation systems and central facilities in all the capital cities, strategic planning should concentrate on the development of major new centres which are substantially or wholly self-contained. Some of these would be close to the existing cities, but others might be distant from existing cities. 
I ask the House to examine this programme of action and to compare it with Labor's proposals. Before setting out our proposals let me give honourable members some details of the great financial strain on young people, particularly in Sydney, although the interest burden is the same throughout Australia. If a young couple was able to acquire a block of land for $7,500 - I have already said that the average price of land in Sydney is nearly $8,000 - after paying 10 per cent deposit and paying the remaining $6,750 at an interest rate of 13 per cent over 7 years at monthly repayments of $122.81, the total repayment would be $10,316.04. In addition local government and water and sewerage rates over 7 years would amount to at least another §1,000 and then there are legal fees as well as the $750 deposit. As a result the cost would exceed $12,000 before they commenced building a home. 
Let me turn to Labor's proposals. Labor will work in co-operation with State and local authorities, lt will encourage those bodies wherever possible to retain all land now vested in their authority - retain it in public ownership. When the land is to be developed it would be developed on a leasehold basis. Labor would create a joint Commonwealth-State planning and development commission in each State to acquire substantial tracts of land, particularly on the fringes of all capital, provincial and regional areas. We do not accept the suburban sprawl of the capital cities, with poor service and no cultural or aesthetic living. We do not accept economic slavery for the young who purchase land financed through the fringe banking institutions at 13 per cent interest. I know conservative elements, as well as the establishments that are making huge profits, regard the centralised overgrowth as a natural, unavoidable, international phenomenon. That is nonsense. London for nearly 30 years, Stockholm and many other cities in Europe have limited central development and controlled suburban development and sprawl. Hugh Stretton in his book 'Ideas for Australian Cities', when speaking of Sydney said: 
There would* be clear advantages in building the next city centre, for the next million or two, somewhere else. That won't happen 'naturally'. Nor can government simply regulate !he citizens to new directions; it has to entice them. It must buy land for new centres, design competitive attractions in them, build strategic parts of them, launch them with public employments, and offer all the private investors and home buyers some real city life, as well as cheaper, more attractive, more profitable, more various options of betterservice land than the 'natural' growth of congested old centres can offer them. 
I agree with Stretton. I agree with the distinguished members of the diverse group in their programme of action set out in the recent report of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies. Labor will build our BelconnensBelconnens of Canberra on the fringes of our capital cities, provincial and regional areas with all the cultural, educational, social, recreational, aesthetic, industrial and commercial aspects. A joint CommonwealthState development commission would also identify a number of sites for new cities and proceed with their development to provide effective decentralisation of development, to arrest the depopulation of the countryside and to slow up the growth of our major cities. During the parliamentary recess I was overseas, and I saw what has been achieved at Tapiola on the outskirts of Helsinki in Finland. I have seen what has been achieved in Stockholm. I saw what has been achieved by the New Towns Commission in England under both Conservative and Socialist governments. What has been achieved there can be achieved here. We have our blueprint; we have Canberra. We are proud of Canberra and we want to build other Canberras in other places of Australia. I now quote from a document headed 'Report on Selective Decentralisation' by the Development Corporation of New South Wales - a government organisation. Its report said: 
The planning of urban growth: There is considerable evidence to suggest that, if the land were publicly acquired and retained in public ownership, the development of growth centres, whether by way of the expansion of ' existing provincial centres or the creation of new Cities in their own right, could be a not unattractive public investment. And this would be so on economic grounds alone, quite apart from considerations of public benefit and State development policy. 
In the few moments which I have left I will refer to a newspaper article which my colleague the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has just made available to rae. It refers to the spiralling land costs on the central coast of New South Wales, which is in his electorate. The article appeared in the 'Gosford Star' of 15th September 1971. It points out that the price of land in that area has increased by 66 per cent in one year. The Commonwealth Government should, co-operate with the State Government and the local government authorities and create on the central coast of New South Wales the cultural and all the other aspects that are to be found in Canberra. We want more BelconnensBelconnens and if we create them we will make Australia a better place in which to live and people will be able to enjoy their lives - not merely exist. This is what a Labor government will do. It is long overdue under this Government. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened withinundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I will be brief because I know the hour is late, but as 1 pointed out earlier this evening Geoffrey Mullen was transferred from Long Bay Gaol to Berrima Gaol. Because of certain incidents which occurred at Berrima he was then transferred to Newnes. I wish to quote briefly from today's 'Australian*. The article states that  Mr Maddison,  the Minister for Justice in New South Wales, when replying to  Mr Petersen,  the State member for Illawarra, said that there were reasons for Mullen being transferred from Berrima gaol. The article states: 
Certain alleged incidents took place at Berrima and the administration decided for good and proper reasons to move him to Newnes,'  Mr Maddison  said. 1 might say that it was only after my speech in this House that Mullen was moved. The article goes on to say: 
After about two or three months at Newnes prison farm 'it became obvious that this man (Mullen) was unable to relate to other Inmates in this institution.' 
Reports suggested that he was in danger from suffering physical violence.' 

 Mr Maddison went on to say that Mullen should serve only a maximum of 12 months in gaol. 
I state - and I want the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to take note of this - that the statement made by the Minister for Justice,  Mr Maddison,  that it became obvious that this man Mullen was unable to relate to other inmates in the institution and that he was in danger of suffering physical violence is categorically false. For some reason or other the New South Wales authorities, including I take it,  Mr McKeegan,  who is the head of the prison service, have taken a dislike to this boy. This young man should remain at Newnes prison farm which is a more appropriate place for him to serve a sentence if he has to serve it. We have asked the Minister to release him but he has already given a reply in the negative so I am not going to press that point. It is not the one I am trying to make. I am asking that the Government have discussions with the New South Wales authorities in order to enable Mullen to return to Newnes. Newnes is a prison farm where there are at least appropriate conditions for the young man to do his post graduate studies. There is a library and he can read newspapers. The whole atmosphere of the prison farm is far more beneficial than that of Cooma gaol. 

 His mother has requested me to make this representation. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  set out the principles of the case. Mullen is a man of strong character and I hope that the Minister reads the comments made by the honourable member for Prospect here tonight. Mullen is a man of courage and I ask that he be given consideration because young men in circumstances such as these should not be persecuted in any way. He should be given consideration and in fact, in my view, respected for his great moral stand and great moral courage. There should be some understanding on the part of the 
Government and the prison authorities of New South Wales of the difficult situation that he will be in. I am asking for  a  complete examination of the Mullen case. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Barnard's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
I rise to protest against the action of the Government in continuing to gaol young men who defy the Government's efforts to conscript them to serve in the war in Vietnam. In particular, I want to express my attitude in regard to the case of one young man. I refer to Geoffrey Mullen, a science graduate of the University of New, South Wales who is at present in Cooma gaol. I relate some aspects of the attitude of the Government and its organisations towards Geoffrey Mullen. After spending a short period in Long Bay gaol Geoffrey Mullen was transferred to Berrima gaol. I visited him at Berrima gaol on Easter Saturday last. On that occasion the superintendent of the gaol, in my presence, threatened that if there were any demonstrations in front of Berrima gaol against the war in Vietnam or conscription Geoffrey Mullen would be removed from that gaol and certain action would be taken against him. It was later brought to my notice that 2 prison warders threatened Geoffrey Mullen that if certain demonstrations occurred outside the gaol the privileges of prisoners in Berrima gaol would be restricted. This led to prison inmates threatening Geoffrey Mullen. 
As a result of the revelation of this matter in this Parliament, Geoffrey Mullen was transferred from Berrima gaol to Newnes, which is probably the best of the New South Wales prisons - if one can describe a prison in such terms. It is more of a prison farm. My information is that during his period at Newnes Geoffrey Mullen was treated well and had good relations with his fellow prisoners. However, several weeks ago he was transferred from this prison to Silverwater and later from Silverwater to Cooma. I made representations to the Commissioner of Corrective Services in New South Wales,  Mr McGeechin,  about this matter. I asked him why Geoffrey Mullen had been transferred to Cooma.  Mr McGeechin  said that the transfer was in fact in  Mr Mullen's  best interests. Following that I sent a telegram to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in the following words: 
Geoffrey Mullen was transferred from Berrima gaol to Newnes Farm. In my speech Hansard 239? May 3rd I gave details on why he was transferred to Newnes. He has now been transferred from Newnes to Cooma. I made representations to Commissioner of Corrective Services  Mr W.  McGeechin seeking details on reason for transfer from Newnes at the request of his mother who believed it was not in the best interest of her son to be at Cooma. In reply to my representation to the Commissioner all I can describe the reply is one of arrogance. As Geoffrey Mullen is a prisoner in the New South Wales prison due to a Commonwealth Act I request through you the details on why he was transferred from Newnes to Cooma and I further request that he be transferred from Cooma back to Newnes. I should appreciate your sympathy and consideration in this case. 
Although I specifically asked the Minister to give consideration to this case no consideration was given to it because the Government has no feelings in this regard. One would think that, as it is now bringing troops back from Vietnam because of public opinion and world pressure, the Government would release the 3 young men who were gaoled because they had the moral courage to stand up against the Government's policy of conscription. The Department of Labour and National Service knows that at least 43,000 young men in this country have failed to comply with all the details of the National Service Act, but only a handful of them have been prosecuted. One would think that these young men would be released from gaol now that we are withdrawing from Vietnam. But that is not the case. The Government apparently wants to act according to what is called the letter of the law. 
The Government is a government of hypocrisy. Was its heart bleeding for the young men who were killed in Vietnam last week? An indication that the Government is a government of hypocrisy is that it could not care less that the lives of 500 of our young men were lost in Vietnam because the Government wanted a cheap insurance policy. What did the AttorneyGeneral say in reply to my representation? In a letter to me dated 28th September 1971, he said: 
I refer to your recent telegram regarding  Mr Geoffrey  Mullen, in which you request details of the reasons for his transfer from Newnes to Cooma. You further request that he be transferred back to Newnes. 

 Mr Mullen is undergoing imprisonment in a State prison as the States are required by section 120 of the' Constitution to make provision for detention in their prisons of persons convicted of offences against the laws of the Commonwealth. Commonwealth prisoners are subject to the same terms and conditions as apply to State prisoners. 1 am satisfied from information I have received from the New South Wales Minister of Justice that the decision to move  Mr Mullen  to Cooma was made in  Mr Mullen's  own interest. The question as to the prison in which  Mr Mullen  should be held is one for decision by the New South Wales prison authorities. 
Let us examine the Attorney-General's claim that the transfer was in the best interest of Geoffrey Mullen. At Newnes he had access to all library facilities. He is a student. Geoffrey Mullen is trying to do a postgraduate course through the University of New England. At Newnes he had complete access to all daily newspapers without having to seek any special permission. Immediately he was transferred to Cooma he came under prison discipline and had to seek permission even if he wanted a newspaper. Under prison conditions they are difficult to obtain. He also had to seek permission to get certain books from the library. This is supposed to be in his best interests. The Government wants to keep this young man in gaol. I can say with the direct authority of his mother that Geoffrey Mullen did not want to leave Newnes. He did not come into conflict with anybody there and no threats were made against him. In fact, he enjoyed good relationships there. I do not think that the boy should be there at all. He should be out of gaol. But no, this Government wants to make sure that somebody pays. 
I am sick to death of the hypocritical attitude of this Government which is putting young men in prison. In fact, it is snooping around looking for other young men to put into gaol. I understand that for 3 days it was chasing young men in  melbournetotry toputthem ingaol. It  must have cost the Government thousands of dollars in attempting to apprehend just a few men. Why does the Government persecute just a few young men? Why does it want to persecute these young men who have had the moral courage to stand up against the authorities and the establishment? These young men have been treated by this Government in a way which is contrary to the way in which they should be treated. There should be some dignity in the matter. The Government should show some sympathy and understanding because of the blunders it has made. What has the Government done? It has committed crimes on 500 young men. It has their blood on its hands. 
One would think that Government supporters at least would examine their guilt, as members of Congress in the United States, both Republicans and Democrats, did. Those members were critical of the Administration - whether it was a Democrat Administration or a Republican Administration. But not one Government supporter in either House of this Parliament - with the exception, of course, of the late  Senator Hannaford,  who left the Liberal Party - has had the decency to look at the mistakes and blunders which have been made in Vietnam. Instead the Government snoops around to make sure that it puts into gaol all the boys who have had the audacity to stand up against this corrupt, rotten law which was passed through this Parliament by the use of the Government's numbers. 
The Leader of the Australian Labor Party has committed an incoming Labor government to wipe from the statute books of this Parliament the National Service Act and also the convictions which have been recorded tinder it. In fact, the Labor Party has stated that it will compensate those who have been persecuted by this Government. Even now I ask honourable members opposite to show some sense of decency and to treat this young man, Geoffrey Mullen, with some human compassion and transfer him from Cooma gaol to Newnes, as requested by his mother. I also ask honourable members opposite to examine his case with a view to ending his' service in prison and letting him return to serve society. He is a science graduate and he can make a contribution to this country. I ask the Government to forget its fears and its dogma under which it must keep htm in gaol. 
As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has done, I ask the Government now to release Charles Martin who has served a gaol term of 18 months. Why does the Government keep him in gaol? The Government says: 'No, we must keep to the letter of the law'. We know how much it keeps to the letter of the law. It does so when it suits it. Let us re-examine this case. Let us examine our mistakes. Let us examine our guilt, because every Australian has guilt for the crimes that have been committed in Vietnam. There have been 500 young men sacrificed and the maiming of another 2,500 young men. This has happened because of the blunders and stupidity of this Government. After all these long years of pleading, making requests and issuing challenges to the Government to look at its guilt, I am asking it now to stop persecuting a few men. I ask it to do the decent thing and release these young men from gaol. 
I support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  It provides for a new section 3a which reads: 
This Act ceases to be in force on the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two. 
We have moved this amendment because we want to end conscription. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  asked why we did not vote against the second reading of the Bill. What we did was common sense. This legislation reduces the period that a conscript spends in the armed services of Australia from 2 years to 18 months. We have said for years that we will support any progress towards the elimination of national service or, as we call it, conscription because we believe that conscription of any type is an evil act particularly in a time of peace. Therefore, even though we are completely opposed to conscription the period of service is to be reduced to 18 months. That is why we did not oppose the second reading. 
We are moving these amendments in Committee so that those gallant men on the Government side who have conscripted young Australians to that bottomless pit of human suffering which is Vietnam and who were responsible for the deaths of 500 young men in thai country may have the opportunity to cross the floor and end this immoral act. That is what we are doing. Let us therefore stop this humbug of asking why we did not oppose the second reading. At least the Bill cuts 6 months off the period of service. It means 6 months less of this immoral conscription. 
That is the reason why we did not vote against the second reading. I am asking Government supporters to come over and vote with us on this amendment that has been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Freedom and democracy have been spoken of in this debate. We know the freedom and democracy that existed in South Vietnam where most of these young conscripts went, where 500 young men lost their lives and where 2,500 young men were maimed. We know the democracy of the gangsters, the military thugs, of South Vietnam. Honourable members opposite talk about freedom, democracy and the 'free world'. Let us drop this veil and face the question realistically. Honourable members opposite know about this so called fear hysteria. They know that it was the former Prime Minister,  Mr John  Gorton, who said that this country has no fear of invasion for at least 10 years. 
But what do honourable members opposite want to do. They say: 'We have to build up this fear*. In 1966, when the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  was the Leader of the Opposition - he will recall this - the Government and its supporters were saying: Where do we draw the line? Do we draw it in Vietnam or do we fight them on our shores?' Of course, every honourable member knows the jingoistic propaganda which were pounded. Honourable members opposite rattled the cans. They even produced coloured pamphlets which portrayed red arrows coming down from China threatening Australia, and they created fear in the Australian people. They even went so far with their propaganda in the Liberal Party that the New South Wales Branch produced, as the honourable member for Mallee well knows, a poster depicting an Australian soldier, wearing a slouch hat, pulling a rickshaw over the Sydney Harbour bridge with a blonde Australian alongside an Asian. They had to build up this fear of racialism that may exist within the Australian community. This is the type of hysteria that this immoral Government indulges in, and then it talks about freedom and democracy. 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  is in many ways a gentle man. I do not know why he has not been able to look within his conscience, as d'd  Senator Hannaford,  and see the immoral act of the Government which he support1!. Surely he knows that in the United States honourable members from both sides have had the courage to say that their country's entry into Vietnam was an immoral and wrong act. In fact, 58 per cent of the American people said it was immoral for the United States ever to go into Vietnam. But why is it that not one member of the Conservative element of this Parliament can say: 'Look, we were wrong.'? The exception, of course, was  Senator Hannaford.  He resigned from the Liberal Party. We have to go into the State legislatures and come into this Parliament and let these men know of their guilt. The honourable member for Corangamite asked why the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Kerr into Service pay rates. He mentioned it for this reason: We say that conscription was never necessary. It was not necessary in the Australian scene. In fact, the Gates Commission, which was created by  President  Nixon and which inquired into the need for conscription in the United States disclosed that there was no reason for national service, as honourable members opposite like to call it. The Opposition calls it conscription of the Australian forces. The Government went about this in haste, lt did not try to establish good wages and conditions for servicemen. This is why the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned the Justice Kerr inquiry. 
If young men enlist in the Army, why should they not be entitled to war service homes? Why should they not receive housing loans? Of course, the loan should be greater than the present amount of $8,000 and the proposed $9,000. The Opposition believes it should be something like $15,000. After all, if one lives in New South Wales, and particularly in Sydney, the average cost of a block of land and a house is $19,000. If the Government implemented the proposals of the Australian Labor Party and provided suitable pay, conditions and amenities to members of the armed services, conscription would be unnecessary. This was revealed by the. Gates Commission in the United States. However, the Government decided to take the easy way out. It decided that it needed bodies. 
There is an old cliche, 'Diggers for Dollars', and the Government had to take out what was called a cheap insurance policy. It thought that if it conscripted young men and sent them to Vietnam to stand by Australia's ally, the United States, and Australia was ever attacked, then the United States would come to our aid. I think that this was a pretty weak insurance policy. It has been completely discredited. This is why the Deputy Leader of the Opposition raised this question and it is why the Opposition proposes that the National Service Act should cease to be in force as from 1st January 1972. All the brave honourable members on the other side of the House will now have the opportunity to cross the floor and vote with the Opposition. By so doing they can help clear their consciences of the crimes that have been committed in Vietnam. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How many applicants were there in each State for grants under the Homes Savings Grant Act in 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
How many applications were rejected in each State due to the land and dwelling exceeding the maximum cost provided for under the Act. 
-- My contribution to the consideration of the Treasury estimates deals with the discrimination to which our society subjects single women of various categories in obtaining finance for housing. I refer to women who are divorced or separated with or without children. Also I refer to women who may not want to marry and who may want to retain their freedom and independence. There are other women who through no fault of their own have not married. They would have accepted marriage but for the fact that the person of their choice did not come along. Why do we treat these people as second class citizens? I think that this is a question that all honourable members should consider. 
Of course, lending authorities may argue that there is no discrimination whatever against women who are the heads of households if they wish to obtain finance for housing. In practice, however, women are discriminated against in various ways, both direct and indirect. This occurs, firstly, because society encourages marriage in the 'typical' family. Secondly, they are discriminated against because of a persuasive and difficult to pin down conviction that women, irrespective of their economic positions, are poor financial risks. 
The young couple, married or intending to marry, are assumed by. all. parties involved to have a right - almost a duty - to set up their 'dream' home in the suburb in which they will live while paying off that house, as we know, over the course of many, many years. A government is in part judged by how far it makes this possible. Honourable members on the Opposition side of the House have claimed, I think quite successfully, that more generous loans at lower interest rates should be made available. However, banks and building societies advertise their ability to further aim under a picture of a young, attractive pair agog over the 'benefits' available to them. The Commonwealth homes savings grant scheme allows divorced people and widows under 36 years of age with one or more dependent children to qualify for a housing grant. But it does not permit a single female or male to be eligible for this grant. 
In Canberra the Department of the Interior is to provide a $9,000 housing loan - this loan will be available under the recent Budget to people who are married, engaged or have dependants and who can meet various other conditions such as working in the Australian Capital Territory and being in regular employment. If applicants are unable to meet the financial' requirements of a 10 per cent equity in the house and the ability to make repayments, the Department will still give the loan provided a suitable guarantor can be found. The Department of the Interior will grant a loan to a financially eligible woman who is looking after children or providing a home for her aged parents. However, it will not give a loan to a single woman or man, although there have been certain exceptions to this rule. Of course, there are always exceptions. However, generally speaking, the story in the case of single women or men is always the same. Whether it be in regard to Canberra's Department of the Interior, the savings banks or the terminating building societies throughout Australia, women are discriminated against. 
Most people in Australia require an additional loan from private sources to enable them to finance their housing arrangements. For example, the maximum loan today from a savings bank is $9,000. A second mortgage of $4,000 can be obtained, which brings the total loan to $13,000. Yet, in the Sydney metropolitan area the average cost of land and a dwelling is about $19,000. The position of home buyers is difficult. However, single people must obtain all of their finance from private sources. 
In practice, banks and other agencies that provide housing finance habitually require a woman, whatever her age or financial circumstances, to have the backing of a guarantor. When questioned the lending agency will say that this is because a woman may get married or become pregnant and then will find it difficult to meet her repayments. The woman's denial - and some women have pointed out the biological impossibility of their becoming pregnant - produces no change in the demand for a guarantor. It is difficult to estimate the anger and humiliation of a comfortably off independent woman who has to ask her son, brother or some other man to guarantee her loan. While not directly relevant, but perhaps illustrating the pervasive conservatism towards women working, most private lending agencies will not consider a wife's income when assessing the finances of a couple wishing to borrow. This attitude is said to be because of a fear that a wife will become pregnant and cease work. It is difficult to accept this reasoning at face value, given modern effective methods of birth control. 
In any case, the typical relative earnings of husband and wife mean that there would be far more difficulty in meeting repayments if the husband became ill or had an accident than if his wife became pregnant. Yet; the' husband's state of health and/or the risk undergone in his employment are scarcely considered when assessing the couple's eligibility for a loan. 
Those women who financially can meet the requirements of lending agencies yet fail to be granted a loan unless they have a guarantor can be considered to be discriminated against, as women, by lending agencies. The difficulties encountered by deserted wives and women with dependent children in obtaining housing finance occur not only because of their sex but also as a result of their poor financial position. A recent survey in Melbourne reported that the incidence of poverty among families without fathers was 'substantially higher than in almost any other group in the community'. Women in this category form a substantial proportion of those aided by the State housing commissions. 
Max Neutze reported that of the housing commission flats investigated in Sydney 36 per cent were occupied by unmarried heads of families, many of them widows or deserted wives. Neutze states that 44 per cent of the heads of households living in private flats were either single, widowed, divorced or separated. However, this figure includes young men and women who would as yet be financially unable to be interested in acquiring a house. Indeed, some women, especially those without children, may prefer to live in a flat rather than a house because flats tend to be more available closer to their employment and require less maintenance. 
Might I point out also that there may be women - creative women - who want to live in a house, to have their garden, to create beauty and to experience the changing seasons in that garden. It seems to me that if we are to have a free society then women are entitled to have their freedom whether they are married or single. At present women are not free. They are discriminated against whether they be single or married. I think it is about time that this Parliament, this Government and the financial system as a whole looked afresh at the question of women, particularly single, divorced and separated women. 
The estimates before the Committee are probably among the most important we have to discuss. They are important because they control our balance of payments and if one examines the deficit on the balance of the current account during the period 1950-51, when this Government first took office, to 1969-70 one will note that the deficit in the balance of the current account is some $9,078m. There has been a further deficit in the past financial year of $ 1,000m. In other words, we have had a deficit in the balance of the current account in the last 21 years of over $ 10,000m. The reason for this, of course, is that we have imported more goods than we have exported and a good deal of those goods we have imported have been paid for in uncontrolled and unplanned foreign investment. We have had to pay for a great deal of our invisibles and the invisibles have covered such things as insurance owned by overseas monopolies, which the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  pointed out, the overseas shipping companies, the shipping freights and, of course, the great outflow of dividends on foreign investment in this country as well as the imbalance of tourism. 
We have a young and energetic Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  the Leader of the Australian Country Party, whose predecessor,  Sir John  McEwen, said in April 1963 - I do not know whether it is a famous or infamous statement - 'that we are selling a bit of the farm every year'. At that stage we had something like a $5,000m-odd deficit in the balance of payments. Now, of course, it is more than double that. In other words, the deficit has actually been accentuated. In the last 5 years we have had a deficit in the balance on current account with the United Kingdom of $2,892m and with the United States of more than $3,000m. In other words, instead of the problem being solved it is becoming greater every year. The overall position of the deficit in the balance on the current account with the United Kingdom during the period 1950-51 to 1969-70 was more than $7,000m and with the United States during this period it was more than $6,500m - a combined total of more than $ 13,500m and yet during this period our overall deficit was only S9,000m. In other words, we have had credits of more than $4,500m with countries such as Japan, the People's Republic of China, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and East European countries. 
Be that as it may, this debt has to be paid and it has been paid for with the loss of our national heritage. Some of those who have invested in this country have received up to 600 per cent return on their original investment. In order to make my case clear to honourable members and those people who may care to examine these astronomical figures, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the following table: 

<graphic href="074131197110073_85_0.jpg"></graphic>

Anybody looking at that table will be able to see the growth pattern and the cost to Australia of this uncontrolled and unplanned foreign investment which is eating the heart and soul out of this country. I want to turn quickly to the aspect of tourism. Tourism is a growing industry and is the direct responsibility of the Minister for Trade and Industry. It has been under his control for many years. We in the Labor Party feel that it should be taken out of the area of trade and related to decentralisation because while most rural industries are failing tourism is one industry which could possibly create regional growth. I was recently at the Gold Coast with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  looking at tourism and I have no doubt that many people in that area with initiative are capable of earning a good deal of foreign exchange. It is something of which Australia should be proud. But the Gold Coast does have problems and one of these relates to the lack of tax concessions for depreciation on buildings. We know that this would probably be a difficult question for the taxation people to assess but I consider that this could be overcome with the institution of a zone allowance. The Gold Coast could be dealt with as a zone for purposes of a depreciation allowance. If we are to maintain and increase the high standard of hotels and motels on the Gold Coast and in other parts of Australia in order to keep up with the standards required not only by tourists from within Australia but also by international visitors this question of depreciation must be considered. To give honourable members some idea of the magnitude of the tourist trade, since 1960 we have been on the wrong side of the budget to the tune of $565m, and this despite the United States rest and recuperation visitors coming to this country from Vietnam. Yet, according to the figures made available to me by the Legislative Research Section of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, without these rest and recuperation visitors we would have had a tourist deficit of something like $665m. We know that with the cessation of the Vietnam war rest and recuperation leave will end and this will probably make our deficit on the balance of current account even worse than it is now. So I ask that some immediate consideration be given to areas such as the Gold Coast: so they can maintain their standards and be encouraged to raise their standards in order to increase the number of international visitors. Again so that I may be able to show the magnitude of this deficit regarding tourism, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate a further table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="074131197110073_86_0.jpg"></graphic>

To return to the question of the Gold Coast, the ratepayers of that area face the responsibility of creating facilities and services on something like 20-odd miles of beaches from Coolangatta to Southport. I feel that if the Commonwealth Grants Commission could look into the problems of the smaller States it could examine the problems of some of our tourist areas. The Labor Party believes that the Grants Commission should make money available for the building of facilities on these beaches because every Australian and even international visitors use these beaches and it should not be the ratepayers of the Gold Coast who have to meet the expense of building and servicing the facilities. We in the Labor Party believe that there has to be a radical change in financing not only the Gold Coast but many other tourist areas throughout Australia. The Commonwealth Government should assist these people to raise the standard of those facilities which have to be made available and also maintain essential services so that the problems facing the local ratepayers will be eased. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Office of the Environment has at last filled its first 2 positions - 2 administrative positions within the second division. According to the Estimates, the Office plans to fill a total of 3 positions during 1971-72. With 2 filled, that leaves 1. However, the Commonwealth Gazette of 30th September  1 have said before that, along with the Scandinavian countries and Canada, Australia is one of the few countries in the world which could set an example to the world on policies for pollution control, rational utilisation of renewable and nonrenewable resources, population policy, urban planning, conservation of significant proportions of our flora and fauna and good management of national parks. Need I mention Lake Pedder which is destined for destruction with the assistance of Commonwealth moneys? However, this Office is set up in a typical ad hoc piecemeal attitude which typifies the Government. The whole conservation area seems to be the responsibility of the Department of Education and Science and not this Department. Meanwhile, the Department of the Interior also has a conservation office. Pollution from motor cars, ships at sea and ocean dumping appears to remain the responsibility of the Department of Shipping and Transport. The use of insecticides and other pesticides and their effect on ecosystems remains the responsibility of the Department of Primary Industry, as does the effect of pollution on fishing in Australia and Australia's role in organisations such as the International Whaling Commission. 
The Department of Health through such organisations as the National Health and Medical Research Council is responsible for a whole host of items from biodegradability of detergents to mercury concentrations in food. The Department of Works designs and builds many public works of obvious environmental impact, 
Is it any wonder that the Government never develops any co-ordinated environmental policy? Environmental policy by this Government has grown piecemeal, with never a thought as to whether a total overview of the situation is required, and a restructure of administration. We can divide environmental administration into  2  areas - policy making and problem solving. The major policy which must be  made is a continuous updated statement  of an optimum human environment, in physical, psychological and social terms - urban and rural. The problem-solving agencies can then suggest the various alternative ways in which such an optimum environment can be planned. The problem solvers will need complete data bank facilities and specialists and will receive environmental impact statements for all activities which will have any environmental impact. The policy makers will then design policies aimed at achieving such goals. 
Population policy, including immigration; natural resource policy, including exports of natural resources; science policy, including research policy; technology policy, including pollution control; educational policy and urban policy will all be influenced by the comprehensive environmental policy. The various piecemeal activities pf several Government departments must be. lumped together sp that the environment policy reflects the environment itself- a whole and integrated system. The United States of America, for example, has a problemsolving agency - the Council on Environ-, mental Quality - and a policy making agency - the Environmental Protection Authority. When the EPA. was formed a year ago it took over organisations' from 6 federal departments, including the National Air Pollution Control Commission, the Bureau of Solid Waste Management, the Bureau of Water Hygiene, the Bureau of Radiological- Health, the Air Quality 
Advisory Board, the Pesticides ' Sections of the FDA and the Fisheries and Wildlife Service, the Water Pollution Control Advisory Board, various research laboratories in several departments, the Federal Radiation Council, radiation standards of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, several noise control offices, the Pesticides Registration Programme of the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Water Quality Administration and many others. The EPA is administered in 6 integrated technical divisions and 4 administrative divisions of Public Affairs, Legislative Liaison, Equal Opportunity and International Affairs. 
As well as the Environment Protection Agency, the United States Government also has organised the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration which integrates activities of the United States weather service, fisheries, sections formerly in the Department of the Navy on oceanography and all other sections of Government concerned with the oceans and the atmosphere. This is the way it is being done in the United States of America. Similar moves are being made in other federal states such as Canada and West Germany. I say to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  that we have an opportunity here to do likewise. But that is not the idea of his Department and he knows it. We can only ask just what the Office of the Environment is supposed to be doing, especially as. at the first meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned with the environment on 17th September it was agreed that basically no national policy towards pollution control was necessary. 
I do not want to embarrass the new officers of the Department, but surely they are concerned that no national policy control was considered to be necessary. Even the findings of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution under the chairmanship of  Senator Davidson  were that there should be a national control and that a national body should be set up to control water pollution in Australia. Finally, if this great problem of pollution of the environment is to be checked, controlled and, of course, rectified, the only way in which it can be done is by the Commonwealth making available some of its financial resources. Surely it  is  only the finan cial resources of the Commonwealth Government which can rectify the problem. Many of these matters have to be policed at State and local government level but those authorities cannot police them because they do not have the financial ability to do so. It is only through a Commonwealth body in co-operation with State and local authorities that these problems can be solved. We want action on these matters. We do not want just jargon. As the Prime Minister has said, we want to enjoy the quality of life and the only way we will be able to get quality of life is through action by this Government. We do not want platitudes; we do not want words. We want action and action is long overdue. Therefore, I have expressed these words of criticism. I hope they are objective words. I have done some research into these problems and I hope that we can follow the examples of other countries. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has a survey been made of the locality of the residences of those persons travelling by aircraft from Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that Sydney has ah over supply of office accommodation' and that this situation will continue for several years? Is he aware that major insurance companies and the Commonwealth Government are mainly responsible due to insurance premiums being allowable tax deductions which have accrued huge capital reserves for insurance companies, which are investing these reserves in the construction of office space in the centre of Sydney and other capital cities? Will the Government take positive action to curb this type of development, which inflicts inflationary pressures on the building industry and creates havoc in the upgrading of the centre of Sydney and other capital cities? 
I second the motion. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  said very deliberately that there were members of the Press and members of this House who were trying to undermine the security of this nation. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  asked a question and the Minister for Defence, in his reply, implied that the honourable member for Lalor was undermining the security of this nation. It may be that the Minister for Defence was flustered when he was replying to the question and possibly he would wish to make the position clearer. The honourable member for Lalor has every right to draw to the attention of this House the requirements of the Standing Orders. Too frequently there has been use of innuendo and, if I may use the word, smear, in this House. Normally the Minister for Defence is not one who engages in this practice but there are other members opposite, from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  down, who do not hesitate in making accusations by smear or by innuendo against members of the Opposition. 
Surely in 1971, when consideration is being given to the admission of China to membership of the United Nations, members should be able to ask questions about and express praise of countries which have ideologies different from our own. Surely it is time we acted in a more adult way and spoke rationally and constructively instead of there being implications against honourable members. I know that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  probably will quote to you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  one of your previous rulings which will indicate that the ruling you have given today is not consistent with your past ruling. It is true that had  Mr Speaker  been in the Chair the ruling he may have given may have been consistent, but your ruling today is inconsistent with rulings that you have given in the past. 1 ask honourable members to give deep consideration to the details that have been mentioned by the honourable member for Lalor. When an honourable member rises in this place to ask a question it should not be doubted that he is speaking only for himself, for his constituents and for this nation which he represents here. Honourable members should be free to ask questions. They should have the basic right to be able to speak freely without being subjected to intimidation. For for too long there has been implied intimidation in this House. I am sick to death of it. I had to take action outside this House not only on my own behalf but on behalf of all honourable members and I hope that honourable members opposite will not regard this motion of dissent as a party issue but as a matter affecting their rights in this House because if the situation changes and we are on the Government side and members opposite are in Opposition 1 will defend their right to stand and speak in this chamber without there being any inferences concerning their personal character. Whether the Minister for Defence intended it, there was an implication against the honourable member for Lalor which I believe should be withdrawn. 
I will make my remarks brief. I rise only because of the remarks made by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  on matters of litigation, in particular, matters of defamation, being dealt with by a judge instead of a judge and jury. I am aware that it is possible that this may cut costs of litigation but in many cases it would cut out a good deal of justice because in litigation, and particularly in defamation actions, as I have found from personal experience, juries are more human and understanding than the judiciary. It seems to me that in the Australian Capital Territory, and elsewhere in Australia, we should preserve the right of every individual to go before a jury in preference to having his case dealt with by the judiciary. The judiciary may deal with the appeal and the matters of law but, as a layman, I will always advocate and stand by the jury system as such, even though in many cases the costs may be greater. I suppose one could argue that the judiciary is not without its costly errors of judgment. In a case with which I was associated it was found that the presiding judge made a mistake in an instruction he gave to the jury. Three appeal judges then made a decision on that judge's ruling and found that he had ruled incorrectly. In due course 5 members of the High Court found that the 3 members of the Supreme Court of New South Wales had erred in their ruling. So even the judiciary is not without its mistakes, and this can affect the cost of litigation. I come back now to where I commenced. I hope that this Parliament will never take away the right to have a jury pass judgment and give decisions against a wrongdoer or, in cases where substantial damages should be awarded, against people who may treat others unjustly. I wanted to make those few comments in reply to what was said by that learned Queen's Counsel, the honourable member for Berowra. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 12 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13 
Sections 38 and 39 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections inserted is their stead: 
39. 
(2.) On or before the hearing of a matter, the Court or a Judge may, for sufficient reason, order that all or a part of the evidence in the matter, being evidence that but for the order would he required to be given orally in open court, may be given by affidavit 
I move: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $1. 
As an instruction to the Government: 
 To assist State Public Housing Authorities to provide low cost housing and to reduce housing costs by - 
enabling Public Land Development Commissions to be set up in co-operation with the States to acquire necessary land, hold it in public ownership, develop it and make it available on reasonable terms on a leasehold basis similar to Canberra; 
reducing interest rates; and 
establishing uniformity of building codes, standards and practices. 
In the brief time available to me I want to expose the priorities of this Government in the field of housing, land and interest rates. I want to deal with housing in both the public and private sector and the action of this Government in using the home building sector of the building industry to place a brake on the whole economy. In April 1970 the Government increased interest rates - an act which has aggravated the inflationary pressure in this sector of the building industry. This action diverted money from a sector which was not placing any real pressure on the economy at that time. The real pressure from the building industry was coming from the commercial office buildings. That sector was not curbed in 1970 and it has continued its pressure on the economy. The Government has power at its disposal to curb this sector. It could curb the life assurance companies which are diverting a great deal of their resources into office building construction in the central busk ness districts of our capital cities. The finance for these ventures is available to the life assurance companies because of the Goverment's policy of allowing insurance premiums of up to $1,200 per person per year as a taxation deduction. The Commonwealth should use its power to correct the use of these accrued resources by the life assurance companies. 
It is only the home building sector of the building industry that has felt the April 1970 Commonwealth Government economic action. The commercial sector has not been affected by these increased interest rates because, being in the monopoly sector, it can quite easily pass on those costs. Approvals for new houses and flats for 1969-70 compared with 1970-71 have fallen by 9.5 per cent. Commencements in that period have fallen by 5 per cent and completions by 1 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table compiled by the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="074131197110283_54_8.jpg"></graphic>

An examination of this table will disclose an increase in approvals of 11.3 per cent in July 1971 compared with July 1970. In August 1971 there was an increase of 13.4 per cent compared with August 1970. When considering these comparisons one must remember that the Government imposed its economic restrictions in April 1970. When one compares the figures for July 1971 with the figures for July 1969 one finds that there has been a fall of 17.2 per cent over the corresponding period before the economic brake was put on. Comparing the figures for August 1971 with the figures for August 1969, there has been a fall of 4.3 per cent. In the year 1969-70 142,212 homes were completed. In 1970-71 only 140,798 homes were completed. In other words, there was a fall of 1 per cent. In 1970 the housing commissions had outstanding over 90,000 applicants for homes. Even this year the housing commissions and public housing authorities have outstanding over 90,000 applicants. 
Last year 116,000 marriages were contracted and the number of immigrants increased to about 185,000. Excluding those who left the country, we still have a net figure of about 150,000. This has been the sort of pressure placed on the home building sector. Migrants want homes and young married people want homes. But the fact is that fewer homes are being built today. The high interest rates are driving more and more people to register with the housing commissions even though they have long lists of applicants for dwellings amounting to about 90,000. I believe that that is a conservative figure. I am quoting the figures made available to me by the Legislative Research Service. In the major metropolis of New South Wales over 37,000 people are on the New South Wales Housing Commission's waiting list for homes. In Sydney the average price of land is $8,000. It has increased by 150 per cent over the last 10 years and, over the last 3 years, has been increasing at 20 per cent a year, or 60 per cent over the 3 years. 
The average cost of a home in the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board area last year was $11,600. This means that the average cost of a house and land in the Sydney metropolitan area is over $19,000. I ask honourable members to examine the facts of life to see who could finance such a dwelling. At present the only way that it is possible to finance such a dwelling would be through the permanent building societies. On a loan of $15,000 repaid over 25 years the repayments to a permanent building society would be $115 a month, which still leaves a deposit gap of over $4,000. The average weekly earnings of wage earners in this country are $84, and 70 per cent of all wage earners earn less than the average weekly earnings. So one can imagine the pressure that is being placed on the home building sector of the building industry. 
The percentage of Commonwealth expenditure allocated to the States for home building under its budgetary policy was 2.49 per cent in 1951-52 and 2.68 per cent in 1954-55. In 1963-64 it had fallen to 2.43 per cent, and in 1970-71 it had fallen to 1.75 per cent. In 1954-55, 22 per cent of all houses built in Australia were built by the public sector. This year it is 9.8 per cent. The monetary policy of the Government is causing increased interest rates. Because of the pressure of interest rates on the cost of land and houses most people in Australia have to go to State housing authorities, but the State housing authorities are building, fewer homes every year. That is why I ask the Government to examine the amendment which I put forward as spokesman for my Party. Honourable members on this side of the chamber will discuss the amendment in further detail. If I have an opportunity later I will discuss what the Labor Party's policy on land will be after the 1972 election, so as to make land available to young people at a reasonable price and. not at the exorbitant average price of $8,000 which applies in Sydney. In Melbourne the average price of land is just below $5,000, and in Perth it is something between $6,000 and $7,000. A solution to the problem of land and housing costs and high interest rates is long overdue. 
I rise for the second time before the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  closes this debate. During this discussion of the estimates for the Department of Housing I moved an amendment and, in the brief time I had for my first speech, explained this amendment. Now I want to discuss briefly  2  other aspects - interest rates and the acquisition of land. It is up to the Commonwealth, in co-operation with the States, to enter into competition with the land speculators and the real estate agents of Sydney and the other capital cities, provincial and regional areas. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  spoke on behalf of the private enterprise system. He is a partner of Cramer Brothers, a well known real estate agency in Sydney, where land is more highly priced than anywhere else in Australia. The average price of land in Sydney is $8,000 a block. This is far in excess of any other State capital. The problem is one of spiralling land prices together with spiralling interest rates. In April 1970 this Government used interest rates to increase the burden on home owners even though at that time there was no pressure on the home building sector of the building industry. The pressure that existed at that time was on the commercial building sector. That pressure still exists today. The major insurance companies - they are a part of the monopoly sector of this country - could absorb the cost of increased interest rates but they passed on the increase. As far as home ownership was concerned, a fall occurred in the building of homes because the great majority of people could not meet the costs of home construction. 
Let me examine the interest burden to give honourable members some understanding of the burden that young people must meet at present. Sydney is the greatest metropolis in this country. It is there that the greatest pressures exist in regard to this matter. We have heard the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  who is an extremely wealthy man. When he drives one through North Sydney he boasts with great pride of the buildings that he has constructed. He is also making great profits from these buildings. This is the man who cries in his tea cup about the people who are struggling in this country to obtain houses and to meet the interest burden. 
These are the facts about the interest burden: The average price of a piece of land in Sydney is $8,000. The average price of a home last year in the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board area extending from Nowra in the South to Emu Plains in the west and Brooklyn in the north was $11,600. Therefore, a home and a block of land together cost in excess of $19,000. If one could obtain a loan through the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, as one cannot, the largest loan that a borrower could obtain is $9,000 at  6i  per cent. Additional loans at 7£ per cent to 8 per cent would be required. Let us assume that a borrower obtained $15,000 at  6i  per cent. The repayments would be $103 a month for a loan extending over 25 years. Interest repayments would be $16,000. In other words the total repayments in respect of that loan of $15,000 would be approximately $31,000. I turn to a loan from a permanent building society. Most of the homes which the honourable member for Bennelong builds in North Sydney would be financed through permanent building societies. A loan of $15,000 from such a society at 8 per cent over 25 years would require monthly repayments of $115. The total interest burden would be $19,700. Total repayments over 25 years would amount to $34,700. That is an example of the usurious interest rates under this Government. 
Let me indicate the policy of the Australian Labor Party. At the Launceston conference, the Australian Labor Party adopted a policy providing for an interest rate of 3i per cent repayable over 25 years. Repayments would be $77 a month for a total interest charge on $15,000 of $8,100. The total repayment over the period would be $23,100. Even so, this is a problem. But the difference between the total repayments on a loan of this amount from a permanent building society and those under the scheme proposed by my Party represents a saving to the worker of $38 a month. In comparison with the total repayments under a Commonwealth Bank loan, the saving under our policy would be $21 a month. 
A Labor government will make interest rates a priority matter in its policy. A Labor government will be a cheap money government for housing purposes. Through the Reserve Bank, it will progressively control interest rates to such an extent that it will determine that people will be able to acquire homes at a reasonable interest rate through the direction of the Reserve Bank. At the present time rural industry receives certain special interest rates through the direction of the central bank. I do not deny that that is a good policy. But if it is good enough for the rural sector of the economy, it is good enough for the home building sector of the building industry. 
The Australian Labor Party has said that with respect to land it wants to carry out a policy similar to that followed in Canberra. However, we. do not want to duplicate exactly what is happening in Canberra now because we believe that the land system that has been introduced in Canberra since May 1970 is not in the best interests of Canberra and would not be in the national interest if extended throughout Australia. Even the Labor Party has reservations about the auction system that existed in Canberra prior to May 1970. The average price of land bought at restricted auction in Canberra for 1970 prior to May was $900. The average price for unrestricted land for 1970 was $3,000. This price had been reduced by one-third from $4,500 in 1962-63. At group sales firms such as Petitt and Sevitt and other group developers paid an average price of $1,700. Yet in the metropolis of Sydney the average price of a piece of land is $8,000. In some areas people pay up to $20,000-odd for a piece of land. 
A Labor government would move in and develop land on the fringe of the capital cities, in provincial and regional areas and in country towns. We would acquire land under a development commission. This commission would work in cooperation with the States. Land would be allocated in accordance with the needs of the people. We would consider the capacity of people to pay. We would put people who could not meet certain conditions into a ballot system. In certain cases we would use the auction system. We would use the auction system with respect to the commercial and industrial sectors of the economy. We might wish to encourage industry to come to certain areas. We may even need to encourage companies which employed married women to come to an area by making land available free up to a certain period and by offering other incentives. The policy will be flexible one. It will be a policy under which land will be made available to people at economic levels. It is a policy in the interests of the Australian people and not of the exploiters. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
There are 2 points I want to make in reply to the speech made by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  Firstly, he said that the 33 acres of land in question are part of Navy land. I refer him to page 27 of the minutes of evidence of the Public Works Committee which inquired into the proposal to construct this building at South Head.  Mr Nigel  Ashton, the  Chairman  of the State Planning Authority of New South Wales, stated before the Committee: 
It is noted that the Army intends to vacate South Head entirely and that an area of some 33 acres will become available for public use. 
He said that this is Army land, not Navy land. Secondly, the Minister referred to the matter of night soil. It seems that the Minister is elated that he can divert attention from the question as to whether this soil should be tipped over the cliff at South Head to the question of night soil deposited by other authorities. Let us examine this matter. The disposal of night soil is the direct responsibility of the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board in Sydney, which is a State semigovernment authority. Under this Federal Government the debt of this authority has increased twelvefold. Over the last 2 decades during which this Government has been in power, the interest burden of this authority has increased by 2,000 per cent. It is in debt to such an extent that it cannot meet its commitments. Now a Minister of the Commonwealth Government seems to be elated that the beaches of Sydney are polluted by sewage because the responsibility for the disposal of this sewage lies with a semi-government authority; it is not his direct responsibility. 
This Commonwealth Government seems to want to pass the buck. I am not here for one moment examining only the guilt of the Commonwealth Government, this Liberal, Tory Government. I am also examining the guilt of a State Labor government which for many years made many mistakes around the foreshores of Sydney Harbour. So let us not just level criticism at one administration. We have to look at the stupidity of past actions. In this year of 1971 we are supposed to be in a period of enlightenment, yet permission is given for this building to be constructed on the foreshores of Sydney Harbour. That is the question with which we have to deal today. What is the position of Sydney? The metropolis of Sydney will have a population of 51 million within the next 30 years. We want to see more open spaces, more open parklands in Sydney. I join the New South Wales Liberal Government in calling for the establishment of a Sydney Harbour national park. This building at South Head should not be constructed. 
It is strange that the Minister for the Navy referred to the great co-operation which he is receiving from the Minister for Conservation in New South Wales,  Mr Beale.  He did not mention the Minister for Local Government,  Mr Morton,  or the Minister for Lands,  Mr Lewis,  in the New South Wales Administration. Again referring to the minutes of evidence of the Public Works Committee it is the opinion of the State Planning Authority and the Minister for Lands that this building should not be constructed. Meeting after meeting was held in an effort to try to prevent this building from being constructed but, because of the stubborness and shortsightedness of the naval authorities, it is to be constructed. It is plain downright selfishness. The facts are that in this day and age there is no reason at all why we should retain military and naval establishments at South Head, North Head, Middle Head or George's Heights. The whole of this area progressively should be restored to become part of a Sydney Harbour national park. 
Tom U-en says that, and I say it with some authority from this side of the House. When a Labor government comes into power after 1972 - and there is no doubt it will - it will set up a national resources fund which, with the co-operation of State and local authorities, will be used to assist in converting to a national park not only the foreshores of Sydney Harbour but also many other places of great beauty throughout this nation. We will protect our heritage. This national resources fund will be administered by people representing the Commonwealth, the States and also conservation groups and the National Trust. We will be concerned to protect our heritage of beauty. Only the other day it was pointed out that Australia is the most urbanised nation in the world, with 88 per cent of its people living in urban areas. This percentage is growing. Yet we find that our parklands are being restricted. 
It was the desire of a great Labor Socialist by the name of Nielsen, after whom Nielsen's Park on Sydney Harbour is named, to keep a green belt around Sydney Harbour. At that time, nearly 100 years ago, it was said to be uneconomic. It is about time we started to move progressively forward to that position. That is why I commend the motion moved by members of the New South Wales Parliament of opposite political thought to my own. The Minister for Lands in particular wants to have a national park around Sydney Harbour. The House should read the report of the Standing Committee on Public Works. Every structure at present on South Head can be moved, with the exception of a few historic buildings which should be retained.  Dr McMichael,  the Director of National Parks and Wildlife of New South Wales, when giving evidence before the Committee on the tactical trainer building at HMAS Watson' at South Head, said: 
. the argument we present is based on the fact that the Navy should not be here at all. 
-I do. I believe that the Navy should not be on South Head at all. Progressively over a period of years - not now - it should be removed.  Dr McMichael  said:  . . in order to provide adequate open space for the people in Sydney, the entire Naval establishment should bc removed. We therefore argue that the construction of this building is completely contrary to any possibility of the ultimate removal of the Naval establishment from South Head. 
Later in bis evidence  Dr McMichael  said:  . . it does not follow that South Head is the only place on which such a naval establishment could be located. 
My colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  moved a motion, which was seconded by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  as follows: 
That while conceding the necessity for a Tactical Trainer building, the Committee is of the opinion that the public interest would be better served by securing an alternate site for the building so as to enable the South Head site to be incorporated in the proposed Sydney Harbour National Park. 
That motion was defeated by only one vote. In his evidence  Dr McMichael  went on to say:  the land would, presumably, become part of Sydney Harbour National Park. He was referring to South Head without the construction of the tactical trainer building. He said:  the negotiation for the transfer of land from the Commonwealth to the State is still taking place at a Prime Minister-Premier level and has not yet been fully resolved, and there are many quite important issues yet to be resolved but, assuming that this transfer does take place and the land becomes part of Sydney Harbour National Park, then it would be managed by the National Parks and Wildlife Service, in conformity with an overall plan for the harbour front lands which we are currently developing. Our aim would be to eliminate all buildings from the headland other than those which will serve a visitor-use purpose  . . and some which have historic significance. Here I refer to the Hornby light, and the buildings which are associated with it, which could be allowed to remain because of the- very historic nature of them. We would otherwise develop the area as a landscaped park with natural vegetation essentially for pedestrian traffic. . . . 
That was evidence from  Dr McMichael,  a representative of the New South Wales Government, yet this Government has brushed it aside and said that the building must go there. We know that every building is capable of being demolished. But this building, which will cost more than $3m to construct and with equipment worth over $5m, will never be removed from South Head, and the Government knows it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether an invitation has been extended on behalf of the Australian Government to the Emperor of Japan to visit Australia? If an invitation has not been extended, has it been discussed? Is an invitation to be extended by the Prime Minister on his proposed visit to Japan? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider that this would be in the best interests pf Australian-Japanese relationships? Is the Minister aware that there is still a strong feeling among many Australians that the Emperor of Japan was the head of State of the former militarist government in Japan and is held partly reponsible for the atrocities inflicted on many Australians during the 1941-45 conflict? 
I speak at this time because it is possibly the last opportunity I will have as a member of the Opposition to discuss the estimates for the Department of the Interior. It is important that we should level constructive criticism when it is necessary, and tonight I want to level some constructive criticism. I have great pride in Canberra - such pride that my party wants to duplicate Canberra not only throughout the length and breadth of Australia but also on the fringes of existing country towns and regional areas. Of course, our plan has been well outlined. I also have great pride in the achievements of the National Capital Development Commission, the Department of the Interior and also the Parks and Gardens Branch of the Department of the Interior. 1 think that all 3 of these bodies have done a very fine job in Canberra. 
Tonight I do not want to deal with all the aspects of my criticism of Canberra, just with a few. ] suppose that one could talk about the transport system in Canberra. It would be an understatement to say that the public transport system in Canberra is inadequate. But I want to deal with what would be probably the most successful venture, or what I consider to be the most impressive venture undertaken in Canberra, and that is the landscaping and tree planting carried out by the Parks and Gardens Branch. Tonight I want to level my criticism at the tree planting and, in particular, at the planting of conifers in Canberra. I think that this is an area in which the Parks and Gardens Branch has been inadequate in its planning generally. I want to deal specifically with Kings Avenue and Commonwealth Avenue. 
At present, cedrus deodara and cedrus atlanticus are growing on the centre nature strips in these avenues. The planners made a great error in the first place. They should never have planted on the centre nature strips in those avenues cedrus deodara which, at maturity, have a horizontal span of the branches at the base of SO to 60 ft. If one wants to get an idea of the size to which cedrus deodara grow one only has to go to parks in Bathurst or at Mount Wilson. Whoever had the lack of wisdom to plant those trees on the centre strip knows that in time they will have to be butchered. I hate to see conifer limbs being cut off at their base as is now being done. When a conifer is butchered at its base it is like cutting the limbs off a beautiful woman, if I may use that terminology. A tree is like a beautiful woman. The way that the conifers are being butchered indicates that the authorities in Canberra are not very enlightened in regard to these matters. Of course, it is being done because of the almighty motor car. Therefore the motor car is the problem that we have to meet. It would be better if the nature strip were planted with shrubs of low growth. 
I want to deal also with King George Terrace which runs along in front of Parliament House. One sees that the cedrus arizonicus that are planted along King George Terrace are also being butchered some 8 feet to 10 feet from the base. If one wants to see how cedrus arizonicus should grow one can examine near the Canberra Hotel a specimen the branches of which extend right down and weep on to the ground, lt is a thing of great beauty. One has to examine the planting of trees from a scientific approach. One has to have an understanding and a feeling for trees so that they will add character and strength to the city of which we are so very proud. So I level those criticisms at the Department. 
Another example of faulty planting is the positioning of the sequoia gigautea which, of course, is commonly known as the California redwood. These trees can be seen around Canberra but many people may not know what they are. The 2 specimens planted on either side of the Hotel Kurrajong entrance are dying. The habitat required by the sequoia gigantea is deep rich soil and the fog coming in from the Pacific Ocean which enables them to breathe and grow to maturity - they reach a height of over 300 feet - instead of struggling for life as they do in Canberra. It is an error to plant them here. I am making this criticism of the Department now so that it may examine its position and start looking for conifers that may be more suitable to this area and this atmosphere. I do not pretend to be an expert on these matters. I respect the scientists employed by the Parks and Gardens Branch of the Department of the Interior in Canberra. I think that such trees as cypress torelosas or cypress lawsoniana, or even the pinus patula that can be seen growing at present on City Hill, could be considered. These are some of the things that have to be examined. 
Before I move on from that aspect, I want to speak briefly about parks. There is a tendency in Canberra to think that parks have to be looked at but not lived in. I make this criticism,  Mr Chairman,  and I hope that the Minister takes steps in this regard in the next 12 months, if the Government is still in office for that length of time. There are not many parks in Canberra in which people really live. Telopea Park is a park in which people participate in various activities. They have picnics; they have a lunch time meal, and children play in it. Most parks in Canberra are open spaces at which people look but in which they do not involve themselves. This is what we want to encourage them to do. 
The last matter to which I wish to refer is something for which I have great admiration. About 6 weeks ago 1 spent a weekend in Canberra. During that weekend I went to the Botanic Gardens and had a look at the natural flora which has been planted there. I also had a look at the great mass of mannifera maculosa at the foot of Black Mountain. As an Australian, I am indeed proud of the lovely natural flora which is growing in the botanic gardens in Canberra. It makes one feel good about being in Australia. Trees of all nations and of all places have been planted in Canberra. They blend together and add beauty to the surroundings. 1 think that we should duplicate this practice in other parts of Australia. As I have said, a Commonwealth Labor government would duplicate the town planning of Canberra in other areas. It would also attempt to duplicate in those areas the beauty, serenity and tranquillity which are to be found in Canberra. I believe that all Australians are entitled to live in the manner in which the people of Canberra live. In the meantime, I hope that the Department of the Interior will take heed of my criticism and give some deep thought to the planting of conifers in Canberra. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the purpose of national service now that the Government is committed to the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam. 
Why does the Government continue with the conscription of young Australians in view of  a  recent statement by the former Prime Minister and Minister for Defence (Hon. J. G. Gorton) that he anticipates no foreseeable danger to Australian shores within the next 10 years. 
 Mr Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I want to speak briefly on this matter. I think the time is long overdue for Parliament itself to determine the question of privilege. A parliament, of course, should have privilege. It is a necessity for a free and democratic society Privilege should be used only on rare occasions. I do not think that members of Parliament should try to abuse that privilege. It is very precious and should be guarded and used very wisely. I endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who spoke earlier today. It is time the Parliament accepted the responsibility and clearly defined where we stand on this matter. Let us not shilly shally about it as we have been doing for so long. 
T think the Browne and Fitzpatrick case is a disgrace to this Parliament. Fitzpatrick had a lot to do with the area from which I came. The former honourable member for Reid,  Mr C.  A. Morgan, was the member who brought the matter forward and I was one of those on the Reid Federal Council at the time who supported his stand. But personal experience has shown me that if I had been a member of Parliament at that time I probably would have regretted having carried out the action we took against Fitzpatrick and Browne. 
I want to comment on the present case. I suppose the words were more elegantly expressed by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  than I could express them. Probably it was great carelessness that this letter got into the Press. But I do not want to see this Parliament make a recommendation that will place too much restriction on editors of newspapers by requiring them to check on people who wish to print letters in the Press, because if there is one forum in our society that brings about more democratic discussion amongst the people and an expression of opinion from the people it is letters to the editor. In fact, I feel newspapers could be encouraged, perhaps by taxation incentives, to increase the amount of space which is allowed for letters to the editor. After all, newspapers are not charitable organisations They are money making concerns and, therefore, the space that is available for publication of letters to the editor is limited. Newspaper space is nearly as precious as question time, when members of the Opposition seek to ask questions without notice of the Government. I am one who has a deal of respect for the letters to editors in newspapers in Sydney, particularly those published in the 'Sydney Morning Herald: I realise that their space is limited and I know that editors have great problems in determining what letters are to be published. 
I hope that this Parliament does not get too technical or critical about this matter and that it does not try to impose restrictions On those editors who must run newspapers and who are trying to provide a forum for the people. So, on the one hand, we must protect our privileges. I hope we get down to the business of doing something instead of vacillating about a decision. On the other hand, I hope that this error on the part of the 'Australian', does not lead to our becoming too critical or applying too many restrictions on newspapers in the matter of letters to the editor. We should encourage letters to the editor. We should encourage people to broaden their aspects, not put too many restrictions on them. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder. situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will. benefit by being able to escape from their usual, environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My comments in this debate on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs will deal mainly with the People's Republic of China and, of course, its admission to the United Nations and to its rightful place on the Security Council. This year is probably an historic year and we have to use it to move forward and to try to bring some sanity to the world, to try to bring the major nations together so that we can start to talk about some progressive ideas to solve the problems of the family of nations living together on this planet. Honourable members on the Government side need not start preaching morality because there is no more immoral act than this Government's involvement in the war in Vietnam since 1962. The immoral acts that this Government has carried out in Vietnam in the name of morality are a disgrace to the Government and to the nation. I want to deal with the questions involved in the status of Taiwan and to deal briefly with the position of the United States of America. 
The claim by both the Republic of China and the People's Republic of China that Taiwan is a province of China is based on the agreement that was made between President Roosevelt and President Chiang Kaishek at the Cairo conference in November 1943 that Formosa should be restored to China. On 1st December 1943 in the Cairo Declaration, the United States, the United Kingdom and China declared that 'all territory Japan has stolen from China such as Manchuria, Formosa and the Pescadores, shall be restored to the Republic of China'. On 5th January 1950 President Truman said: 
In keeping with these declarations (Cairo and Potsdam), Formosa was surrendered to Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, and for the past four years, the United States and other Allied Powers have accepted the exercise of Chinese authority over the island. 
Shortly afterwards in an effort to dispel any doubts on Chinese title to the island, the United States Secretary of State, Dean Acheson, said: 
When Formosa was made a province of China nobody raised any lawyers' doubts about that. That was regarded in accordance with the commitments. 
However, with the outbreak of the Korean war in June 1950, the American policy became militarily well denned but legally ambiguous. When President Truman ordered the United States Seventh Fleet into the Formosa Straits he was, according to his earlier statements, intervening in the internal affairs of China. To defend the United States against a Chinese Communist accusation on these lines, in a statement before the Security Council on 25th August 1950 the American representative in the United Nations, Ernest Gross, reversed his country's policy. He said: 
The actual status of the island is that it is territory taken from Japan by the victory of the Allied Forces in the Pacific. Like other territories, its legal status cannot be fixed until there is international action to determine its future. The Chinese Government was asked by the Allies to take the surrender of the Japanese forces on the island. That is the reason the Chinese are there now. 
On 8th August 1969 the United States Secretary of State,  Mr Rogers,  gave a clear indication of the United States shift on the 2 Chinas policy when he said that the United States recognised that 'the Republic of China on Taiwan and Communist China on the mainland are facts of life'. Two years later on 2nd August 1971  Mr Rogers  appeared to endorse that line and said: 
We think the realities of the world require that both - the People's Republic of China and Taiwan - be represented. One represents 700 million to 8G0 million people. In Taiwan there are 14 million or more people, and we think that both should be represented on the United Nations. 
At the same Press conference, however, he noted the opposing contentions of the Communists and the Nationalists to be the sole government of China and representative of the people of China and stated that representation in the international organisation need not prejudice the claims or views of either government. 1 stress that point to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who is now at the table and who so gullibly followed the line of the United States at the United Nations.  Mr Rogers  went on to say that the participation of both in the United Nations need not require that result. 
The current United States position on the status of Taiwan therefore appears to be a combination of the 1950 Ernest Gross definition that the status of Taiwan remains to be determined and an implicit qualification that the United States is not opposed to a solution involving the reunification of Taiwan with the mainland. This new qualification appears to favour Peking, as the chances for reunification under the Nationalist Government are less probable. That was the position of the United States. It was a flexible position and the United States still wants to solve the problem by negotiation. We in the Labor Party have argued on a similar line. We say that the recognition of the true and proper government, the People's Republic of China on the mainland, is realistic. This was the position of the United States because it realised that it had got itself, under Dulles, into a stupid quagmire of diplomacy and had to get out of it some way. 
In the few moments that remain to me I wish to dispel any remaining doubts about the position of China. While the Nationalists and the Communists have been irrevocably antagonistic to each other, they do agree that Taiwan is an integral part of China and that there should never be 2 Chinas. Did the Foreign Minister ever doubt that? In February 1955, President Chiang Kai-shek claimed:   . . when Japan surrendered, the Government of the Republic of China repossessed Taiwan (Formosa) and  Penghu  (Pescadores) and constituted them as Taiwan Province. Since that time, Taiwan and Penghu have regained their status as an integral unit of the territory of the Republic of China. 
Those are the words of Chiang Kai-shek. 
On 25th November 1968, Defence Minister Chiang Ching-kuo stated: 
People outside China are wrong to distinguish between Chinese and Taiwanese. During World War II we in Nanking were separated from Chunking by mountains; now we arc separated from Peking by sea; but we are still in China. It is impossible to visualise 2 Chinas. 
On 26th July 1971 the Nationalist Ambassador to the United States, James Shen said in a television interview that the Nationalist Government was the sole legitimate representative of all China and that Taipei would not give up this claim. That was the position. 
We know that the People's Republic of China has always stated that there is only one China. Yet this Government, which says we are only a small country of 12 million people who have lived for so long in the same region as this great population of China, has determined that there will be 2 Chinas, even though it determined for so long that there was one China only. It was only when the Government was near defeat on this matter that it determined the policy that there should be 2 Chinas. This has been a stupid policy. Our relationship for 20 years with China has been characterised by stupid actions of this Government. The policy of the Government has been against the interests of Australia and against the interests of the area. The stupidity of the action of this Government is demonstrated in our trade relations with China. In 1938-39, 2.2 per cent of our trade was with China. Today it is down to 1.5 per cent. In 1938- 39. our trade wilh the whole of Asia was 11 per cent of our total trade. Today it is over 40 per cent. A great deal of our trade and a great deal of our future rest with China. We should react reasonably, properly, and realistically. 
In this debate I want to refer to a case that is reported in volume 45 of the 'Australian Law Journal' of July 1971 at page 337. It reads: 
Prison for Non-Payment  ot  Fines 
At 45 A.L.J. 167 we mentioned the problem of prison before trial. A somewhat similar problem exists in cases where, upon conviction for a comparatively minor offence a fine is imposed on a defendant, or an order is made for the payment by an unsuccessful informant or defendant of the costs of proceedings, in either case with the alternative of imprisonment in default of payment, and the person concerned (though able to pay) declines to do so, either because he claims there is a principle involved, or because he seeks to make political capital from his subjection to imprisonment. While one can understand the motives of such people in the circumstances, a wider community interest is involved. In the first place, the recalcitrant individual is taken away from his usual avocation and therefore ceases to be productive; secondly, the cost of his sustenance, lodging and being guarded has to be borne by the community. There is no reason why either of these burdens should be thrust upon the taxpayer. 
There is, of course, a recent precedent in this country. I refer to the case when I took before the court Constable 3136 of the New South Wales Police Force. After a hearing lasting 3 days the magistrate found that there was no case for the constable to answer. The court ruled that I would have to pay the costs. I called the costs a type of fine. I refused to pay the fine because of the belief that I held. I expressed this belief in this Parliament on 17th February this year when I said, in part: 
 I will not pay the fine. A law which threatens people with punishment if they dare to take their grievances to court is an unjust law. It intimidates people into not making criticism  of  public officials. The money awarded is called costs but in reality it is a fine. It is not paid to the defendant policeman; it is paid into Consolidated Revenue. The law in this respect reeks of inequality. In our courts of petty sessions, which handle police work, there is no genuine equality. Policemen have more equality than citizens. They have far greater rights than any citizen. If the defendant police officer in my case had charged me with assault and had failed to prove his case he would not have been required to pay my costs; he would not be threatened wilh a gaol sentence. My case was commenced in the public interest. My refusal to pay fine is in the public interest. To threaten a man wilh gaol when he has broken no law is a stupid law, and the sentence of 40 days hard labour for failure to pay a $80 fine is a stupid law. 
And it was a stupid law, so much so that the New South Wales Cabinet and Government changed that law the day after I was released from gaol. Instead of one day's imprisonment for every $2 the law was changed to provide one day for every $5. This meant that one-third of the prisoners in New South Wales who were imprisoned for the non-payment of fines had their sentences reduced by 60 per cent. That decision has saved the taxpayers of New South Wales tens of thousands of dollars. 
I again want to bring to the notice of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who represents the AttorneyGeneral - and I reminded him of this matter previously when he was the AttorneyGeneral - the law which exists in the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory. In reply to a question I asked of him the Minister said at page 495 of Hansard of 20th August 1971 that in the Australian Capital Territory a person spends one day in gaol for each $2 owing, or part thereof, with a maximum of 12 months imprisonment. In the Northern Territory it is one day for each $2. It is about time that the law in the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory reached at least the position of the law which now exists in New South Wales. The report I earlier referred to and which is set out in the Law Journal questions whether a man should be sent to gaol at all for failure to pay a fine. The report went on to state what the British law is. 1 ask the Government to examine this matter. It is long overdue for consideration. Recently the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party determined that the policy of our Party will be that no man will be sent to gaol unless he breaks  a  law or commits a crime. We will not send a man to gaol when he has broken no law or committed no crime. All I did in my own case was to charge a policeman who had assaulted me. Even though he perjured himself the magistrate said that there was not sufficient evidence although he admitted it was a strange case. This occurred despite the fact that I was able to select the policeman out of 5 or 6 plainclothes policemen in the court. The New South Wales Police Department would not identify the policeman, but I was able to identify him when he was wearing plain clothes. I had charged constable No. 3136. He claimed he had never seen me in his life. Apparently through some magic on my part I was able to pick out this man - who had never seen me before in his life - from five or six others in the court. I was able to choose him. I could go on and talk about the corruption and stupidity of the New South Wales Police Force, some of the senior members of which, if they do not perjure themselves, stretch the truth. 
Be that as it may, this is a law that the lawyers themselves are questioning. They are saying that we should alter this law. In this day and age we want to try to keep people out of gaols, not put them into gaols. This report, which I draw to the attention of the eminent lawyer at the table, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, asks why the taxpayers of this country should have to pay to keep people in gaol. We want to minimise the number of people going to gaol. The time is long overdue for this Commonwealth Parliament to involve itself in prison reform. We know that there are no votes in improving prison conditions. But the conditions under which prisoners live and the food they eat are appalling. 
Even though I disagree with the attitude of the Minister for Justice in New South Wales,  Mr Maddison,  on the Bathurst gaol bashings - I think he made a foolish mistake in this case - I believe that he is probably one of the best Ministers for Justice we have had in New South Wales tor many years and probably better than many Labor Ministers. I do not criticise the State where I live because there is much work to be done. The only way to bring about prison reform is for the Federal Parliament to work in co-operation with the States to solve the problem of prisons in this country. Unless we face this responsibility the States have no chance of solving this problem. I am aware that there are no votes in prison reform. We know that the States are starved of funds, and no programme is more starved of funds than is the Department of Corrective Institutions. At this stage of our civilisation we should begin at least to look a little more enlightened than we are. This Commonwealth Parliament should do something about working in co-operation with the States. I hope that the Attorney-General does something about prison reform and locking people up in gaol for one day in lieu of every $2 unpaid fine imposed by courts in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Proposed expenditure, $88,830,000. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What is the present rate of interest charged to borrowers by permanent building societes in 
New South Wales 
Queensland; and 
Western Australia 
What was the 
average loan provided by the permanent building societies, and 
monthly repayment rate on an average loan in each of those States in 1970-71. 
What is the required income of a wage earner to acquire an average loan In each of those States. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Why is Australia not a member of the preparatory committee for the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment which is to be held in Stockholm in 1972 (question No. 2914, Hansard, 23rd April 1971, page 2036). 
As the then Minister for Foreign Affairs indicated in his answer that officers in the 
Department of Foreign Affairs who attended meetings of the preparatory committee in Geneva and New York as observers were not technical experts in environmental matters, will he ensure that in future officers attending these conferences are competent in these fields. 
Will the Australian contribution to the Conference be co-ordinated by the Office of the Environment after it commences operation. 
What are the specific details of Australia's proposed contribution to the Conference. 
How will Australia's delegation to the Conference be constituted. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What sum has Australia contributed to the United Nations Trust Fund for South Africa that was established in 1965 to provide humanitarian assistance to the victims of the South African policy of apartheid. 
Can he say what other countries have contributed to the Fund and what sum has been contributed in each case. 
My remarks will be brief. I rise in the Committee stage to seek clarification of clause 3(1.) which says in part: building society' means a society or association of persons registered under the laws of a State as a building or housing society, whether terminating or permanent and whether or not a co-operative society; 
Under this Bill , 0 per cent of the money allocated will go to State housing authorities and the other 30 per cent will be allocated to building societies. Clause 7 (2.) says: 
Subject to the next succeeding sub-section, there shall be credited to the account in each prescribed year not less than thirty per centum of the amount set aside by the State for housing in that prescribed year. 
The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  made great play of terminating building societies and eulogised them. 
Quite frankly, we in the Australian Labor Party have great respect for the diligent work done by the terminating building societies and their officers. Let us analyse the Government's policy and attitude towards them. In New South Wales, in which I reside, the maximum loan that one can get from a terminating building society is $10,800. However, the average cost of land and dwelling provided under the war service homes scheme in that State is $14,800 while the average cost of land and dwelling in the Sydney metropolitan area is over $19,000. Yet the maximum loan from a terminating building society is $10,800. Let me now talk about the Government's hypocrisy and of the wonderful job that the terminating building societies do. This Government gives a mere pittance to these organisations. We know that those to whom these organisations give a loan must obtain a second mortgage loan to meet their commitments. 
Let us expose the policy of the Government on this question of the role that it plays with respect to terminating building societies or co-operative building societies. Looking ot the permanent building societies we see that the proposition is different. Not one cent of the money about which the Minister for. Housing has spoken goes to the permanent building societies because they raise their money on the open market. Consequently the home buyers with whom they deal are people who can obtain a loan of $1.5,000. 
The average loan in New South Wales last year from permanent building societies was $14,600. In the second reading debate I gove the figures with respect to average loans. Approximately $115 a month must bc repaid on an average loan of $15,000 over 25 years. In New South Wales, ti.e money that is allocated under this part of the Bill goes to the terminating building societies and the maximum loan from those societies is $10,800. I want to know what sort of a home can be purchased in the Sydney metropolitan area for that amount. The Minister should look at the figures which appear in the annual report for this year of the War Service Homes Division. He should study the average cost of war service homes. He should look at the average cost of land in Sydney, which is $8,000. He should look at the average cost of a home within the area of the Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - The honourable member for Reid will relate his remarks to the Bill. 
With respect to your ruling.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  may J say in passing that honourable members opposite have eulogised the role of the terminating building societies but we on this side of the Committee have not deprecated the role of those societies. What I am explaining is that we live in the world of reality and not in the world of make believe in which the Government likes to live. I am talking about the State in which I live. There the terminating building societies are given such wonderful financial scope by this Government that they will receive onethird of the allocation by way of grants being made available under this legislation. Yet the maximum loan provided by one of these societies is $10,800. This is what the Government proposes to do at this time when it is allowing inflationary trends to develop. The Government cannot pass the buck. 
In reply to the criticism expressed by the Minister, I say that the Minister should look at the policy of his own Government. He ought to make sure that more money is made available to the terminating building societies. He ought to make sure that at least the average loan that can be made available through the terminating building societies is made available even though the interest rate that they charge is  H  per cent. This is made up of an interest charge of  6i  per cent plus an additional ) per cent for management costs. These societies make loans at an interest rate of 7£ per cent, which represents quite a large repayment. The interest rates of terminating building societies should be reduced. Not only should interest rates be reduced but the size of Joans also should be increased to enable terminating building societies to make available loans of a realistic amount so that people can meet their commitments without resorting to second mortgage loans. 

 - Mr Speaker, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House is of opinion that the Commonwealth Government should provide the States with adequate funds to enable them to- 
meet the special bousing needs of (a) low income earners, (b) pensioners, (c) migrants, (d) Aborigines and (e) deserted wives and similarly disadvantaged people and 
acquire existing dwellings for restoration and allocation by rental or sale'. 
The Bill before the House seeks to amend an Act which has an historical background in this Parliament. It was first introduced by a Commonwealth Labor government under the Prime Ministership of  Mr Chifley.  At that time an agreement was entered into between the Commonwealth and the States under which the States would construct dwellings for workers  on  low incomes. The policy at that time was that the Commonwealth would charge the States an interest rate of 3 per cent. It was also the policy that no person should have to pay more than one-fifth of his weekly income for rental of that home. That interest rate of 3 per cent was retained from 1945 until 1956 when a new agreement was entered into and the Conservative Government changed its policy to the extent that it charged the States an interest rate which was1 per cent below the existing bond rate. Last year the bond rate rose to 7 per cent so, of course, the Commonwealth charged the States 6 per cent interest. Under the legislation we are now considering that Government intends to abolish the1 per cent interest rebate and to charge the States the existing bond rate, the rate which is paid on loans made for State public works. 
Under this legislation the Commonwealth Government will make available to the States an accumulative grant of $2.75m a year tor the next 5 years, which means that it will provide a direct accumulative grant of $2. 75m in 1971-72, $5.5m in 1972-73.$8.25m in1 973-74,$11m in 1974- 75, rising to a peak of$1 3.75m in 1975- 76. Also, the Government has staled that it will make available to the States a flat grant of$1. 25 a year for rent rebate purposes. That, of course, will be provided in the 5-year period which I have mentioned. The accumulative grant will be spread over a period of 30 years, whereas the loan under the original agreement was spread over a period of 53 years. I do not wantto go into the sliding scale of interest rates, because that is a technical matter. I know that the Commonwealth Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  had more than one meeting with the State Housing Ministers. In fact, the State Housing Ministers were not particularly happy in the early stages. In fact, some of them and also some Premiers were not happy even at the conclusion of the discussions, although some Premiers felt that they had fared better than they had under the previous arrangement. 
In the time available to me I want to deal with the Commonwealth Government's attitude to low cost housing. On 29th September 1970 the former Minister for Housing,  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, said: 
One of the major aims of our housing contribution in the next 3 years will be to encourage the States to provide decent housing for lower income families who are unable to obtain satisfactory private accommodation. 
I want to deal with that statement made by a former Minister, the priorities - or lack of priorities - of this Government and the way in which this Government is not facing up to the great social problem of providing housing for low income earners. Later 1 hope to deal in some detail with the social consequences of the Government's policy on housing which flow to certain sectors of our community. If one analyses the Government's policy on housing one finds that in 1954-55 the Budget allocation for housing reached a peak of 2.68 per cent of the total Budget appropriation. Last year, 1970-71, this had fallen to 1.75 per cent. If the Government wanted to increase its expenditure on housing to the percentage of the budget appropriation spent on housing in 1954-55, it would have to spend another S75m; that is, it would have to increase its expenditure from $142m to $217m. In other words, this Government has allowed the public sector of the housing industry lo slip further and further behind. 
The pressures on young people acquiring homes are becoming more difficult every day. If one examines the figures for home construction in 1954-55, one finds that 22 per cent of all homes which were built in that year were constructed by public authorities with the encouragement of the Commonwealth Government. But in 1970 the number of homes built in the States by the public sector of the housing industry represented only 9.8 per cent of the total homes constructed. This is the sick record - and I use the word 'sick' advisedly - of this Government. Why does this position exist? In this regard I refer to what was said by  Dr Max  Neutze, a well known research worker at the Australian National University, as reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' of Thursday, 4th November 1971. He says that the real problem is that the rising cost of land and high mortgage loan interest rates are making it increasingly more difficult for young couples to buy their homes or land. 
What is the situation? If young people cannot afford to buy their homes through the private sector, more and more will be forced to make an application to the only place where they can obtain a home. That is the State housing authority. How does one buy a home today? For instance, I will deal with my own State of New Sou:h Wales and my own city - Sydney. Throughout the metropolitan area of Sydney the average price of a block of land is $8,000. In the working class area in which I live - Guildford - a block of land cannot be bought for less than $7,500. The average cost of houses that were built last year in the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board area - the. area from Kiama in the south to Brooklyn on the Hawkesbury in the north and to Emu Plains in the west - was $11,600. So the approximate average cost of a block of land and a house in the Sydney metropolitan area is over $19,000. But assuming that young people can afford to save a sum of. say, $4,000 - that is a very hard amount to save - to close the deposit gap. a Joan of $15,000 from the permanent building societies at 8 per cent interest requires a monthly repayment of $1 15. 
This is on repayments over 25 years. This means that they would need a weekly income of between $110 and $120 a week. When one examines the average weekly earning rate of all wage earners in this country one sees that it is about S84 a week. When one looks at the report of the Commissioner of Taxation and finds that at least 70 per cent of all wage earners earn less than the average weekly earnings one sees how many people are disqualified from getting- such a loan.  Dr Neutze  says that homes have been priced outside the means of young people. Consequently, they are being forced to make applications to be placed on Housing Commission lists. Throughout the nation there are now nearly 90,000 people registered on Housing Commission lists. This Government brings down this proposal and says: 'Of course, this is our solution'. I am not denying that it is not a little nudge forward. One would have to acknowledge that. After all, we have had 22 years of mismanagement from the Government. 
Recently, I was reading the speech of the late  Mr E.  J. Ward, a former housing spokesman of the Labor Party when he was dealing with the applications on the New South Wales Housing Commission lists in 1956. When the housing agreement was renegotiated in 1956 there were 30,000 people waiting for homes. Today, many years later, what do we find? After 15 years we still find 37,000 applicants outstanding. This Government says that it has placed a priority on housing. I do not consider that this is good enough. It is about time that this Government met its responsibilities. I want to analyse the figures that are available. It is a very difficult aspect to analyse. For instance, I believe that in the first year of operation of the new agreement for 1971-72 it will be found that a $2.75m grant, which is a cumulative amount, and a flat amount of $ 1.25m will be provided making a total of $4m. But the Minister for Housing knows that it cost the State Government authorities alone S3. 9m for rent rebate last year. That excludes South Australia which does not keep accounts in this respect. We know, of course, that the States lost the one per cent subsidy which last year was worth about $1.29m. I believe that in the first year of operation of the new agreement this State Government is worse off than what it was in the previous years. 
I want to try to analyse the inflationary trend during the next 5 years over which this cumulative amount is to be provided. I have tried to obtain an estimate, of the Commonwealth's expenditure on housing at varying rates of interest. I ask permission to have 2 tables incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'this House is of opinion that (a) a purchaser of a dwelling-house who receives financial assistance as a consequence of the States Grants (Housing) Act 1971 should be eligible to receive a grant under the Homes Savings Grant Act and (b) the assessed value of a dwelling-house for the purposes of a homes savings grant to an eligible person should be increased to twenty thousand dollars'. 
This Bill amends section 20 of the Homes Savings Grant Act consequential upon the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1971. Section 20 of the Homes Savings Grant Act provides for a payment of grant money to assist certain eligible persons who are purchasing or building a home. However, the section precludes the payment of a home savings grant in respect of a dwelling house built by or for a State authority with money provided under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. The point I desire to make to the House is that at present the bond rate is 7 per cent, and it is the bond rate of 7 per cent at which money is raised by the State housing authorities to build homes. A person who resides in a home which has been built by a State housing authority and who wishes to purchase that home is excluded under this Act from a grant. A person might want to acquire a home, already built, through the Commonwealth Savings Bank at an interest rate of 63 per cent or to build a home with a loan provided through the Commonwealth Savings Bank at an interest rate of  6i  per cent. That person is entitled to a grant. We believe it is reasonable that this Act should be broader. It should give a fair go to people who live in houses built by a public authority. They should have every right to a grant under this Homes Savings Grant Act. T :tsk the House and particularly honourable members on the Government side not to press on with this legislation but to accept our amendment. 
The second part of our amendment seeks to increase the maximum value of the land and dwelling from $17,500 to $20,000. I shall give some reasons for this amendment. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  has made speeches on this line. When the Act was amended to raise the amount from $15,000 to $17,500 he agreed with me that the amount should by $20,000. The honourable member for Bennelong and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who both entered into the earlier debate, know that if they wanted to purchase a block of land and build a home on it in their electorates or in any electorate in the Sydney metropolitan area represented by a Liberal member of Parliament, they would not be able to do so with the $17,500 provided under the existing legislation. We know that the honourable member for Bennelong could not buy a home unit in which to raise a family in his electorate for $17,500. It would cost at least $20,000. 
I have said over and over again but I will repeat it so that honourable members on the other side may know that under a conservative Liberal government - a government of the same political colour as this Commonwealth Government- which has governed in New South Wales for the last 6 years, acting in co-operation with this bungling Commonwealth Government, land prices in New South Wales have been spiralling. Of course, prices are rising in every State - I am not saying that they are not - but the inflationary trend in land prices is worse in Sydney than it is in other cities. The average price of land in Sydney is $8,000. In Perth it is between $6,000 and $7,000. In Melbourne it is about $5,000. In both Adelaide and Brisbane the price is about $3,500. But the real crisis in land is in Sydney. After all, that is where the great percentage of the people of Australia live. Looking at this matter realistically, we say that the maximum value of a house and land which may attract a home savings grant should be $20,000. 
There was a certain portion of my electorate, prior to the last redistribution, which was the only portion that was not fully developed. I refer to the Georges Hall area, lt is now in the electorate of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I checked with him this evening to find out the price at which land was being sold in that area and he informed me that it was selling at $12,000. That land at Georges Hall is about 16 or 17 miles from the General Post Office in Sydney. Even at the level of S20.000 which we have set one would find it extremely difficult to build a house there. 
We say that it is a realistic position at least to raise the value to $20,000. Therefore, I think that the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition should be carried. We could go into the question of interest rates and the gimmickry, if I might use that term, in this legislation. It was introduced in the Budget session of 1964. At that time the interest rate on a $12,000 loan with a permanent building society was  61  per cent. It is now 8 per cent. The interest on the life of a SI 2,000 loan, repaid over 25 years from June 1964, would have been §12,305. If the same loan were taken out now, in November 1971, the repayment of interest at 8 per cent would be $15,785. This means that the Government gives $500 with one hand and lakes $3,480 back with the other. As I said earlier, $12,000 is not a realistic loan, bearing in mind that the average loan in New South Wales, as 1 have pointed out, is close to $15,000. In June 1964 the interest rate charged by permanent building societies was 61 per cent. On a loan of $15,000 for 25 years interest of $15,384 would be paid. Today the interest rate charged by permanent building societies is 8 per cent. On a loan of $15,000 interest totalling $19,732 would be paid. In other words, the interest alone has increased by $4,348. The Government with one hand gives $500 as a homes savings grant but with the other hand takes back $4,348. In the past 1 have called this legislation gimmickry, and that is what it is. 
The Government should be doing something about interest rates. However, I will not delay the House any longer as this Bill has a narrow compass and I do not want to stretch the  Tight  given to me tonight to move the amendment 1 have moved. The amount of $20,000 I have suggested in my amendment comes within the terms of section 20 of the Act. The other suggestion contained in my amendment is that purchasers of houses who have received financial assistance through the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement should be eligible for the grant. I have pointed out that the bond rate at present is higher than the interest rates paid even by the savings banks. If  it  is good enough for people with savings bank accounts to be eligible for the grant  it  should be good enough for people living in government built homes to be eligible. I ask the House to support the amendment moved by the Labor Party. 
It is ironical that the War Service Homes Bill should follow the debate that we have just heard, and in passing I refer to the Senate's message which was the subject of that debate. It stated: 
That the Senate of the Australian Parliament places on recordits appreciation and gratitude to the personnel of all Australian forces who served in the Vietnam conflict for their courage, dedication and sense of duty. 
Particularly do we express our sympathy for the relatives of those Australians who gave their lives during this conflict. 
If one examines the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who introduced this legislation on behalf of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  one finds that the war service homes scheme is part of the Government's repatriation policy or programme. I question whether the Government will extend sufficient sympathy in order to permit parents who lost their sons in the conflict in Vietnam to receive some benefit from this legislation. I wonder whether the Government in fact will broaden the war service homes scheme to give some real benefit at least to those parents who have lost their loved ones in this conflict. I think that the resolution which the House has just passed was a very shallow and empty one. I could go on and refer to the hypocrisy that was expressed by honourable members opposite. One of the sad things that one is expected to do in public life is put up with this hypocrisy. I suppose that one has to put up with hypocrisy in all parts of the world, but one should strive to make it a better and more tolerant world. 
The legislation that is now before us is not making any real contribution to those ex-servicemen who served in the First and Second World Wars and those who served in Vietnam. The main purpose of the Bill is to increase the maximum loan under the war service homes scheme from $8,000 to $9,000. The Bill also provides for a widening of the definition of 'holding' in the War Service Homes Act, which will enable certain interests in land, not presently provided for in the Act, to be accepted as security for a war service homes loan. The Bill also includes a number of other amendments which are designed to facilitate the administration of the Act. Clause 3 amends the definitions of purchaser' and 'borrower' for the purposes of section 30a, 31 and 36 of the Act. Clause 7 provides for the insertion of a new section in the Act - section 30b  -  which will empower the Director of War Service Homes, when he enters into possession of a property in pursuance of a warrant issued under section 30a of the principal Act, to remove goods found in the dwelling house and store them in a safe place and to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods upon the expiration of a period of 3 months after a notice of the removal of the goods has been published. I would say that this section of the Act is designed to give power to the Director so that the Division can enforce a law to exclude from provisions of the Act certain people who may have served in a war. It seems that the tolerance of the 
War Service Homes Division and in particular the tolerance of the Government has worn out. The Government wants to put people in this category out in the street and exclude them from the benefits to which they are entitled under the Act. 
Clause 10 of the Bill provides for the insertion of a new section in the Act - Section 48o - which will empower the Director to advance money on mortgage to an eligible person for the purpose of effecting a sale when exercising the powers of sale conferred by section 36, section 48 and section 48c of the Act. The Minister in his second reading speech said that the war service homes scheme is the Commonwealth's own housing scheme. He went on to say: 
The scheme is part of a comprehensive range of repatriation benefits for Australian ex-servicemen and women and their dependants. Its aim is to assist eligible persons to secure homes of their own by providing them with low-interest, lang term housing loans. 
I want to stress the words, 'its aim is to assist' eligible persons to secure homes. The Minister did not use the phrase 'to acquire' a home but said 'to assist' them 'to secure' a home. At least in his speech of half truths the point came through that the Government will only assist people to secure a home because any person with common sense knows that the inadequate loan which will be available from the War Service Homes Division is not enough to enable a person to acquire a block of land and to build a home on it. The loan as present only assists applicants to purchase a home. 
There was a time when the war service homes loan paid the entire cost of a person's home. In fact, in 1.950-51 in the rosy early days of the crusading Liberal Government, the maximum loan was $5,500. At that time the average cost of a home and land throughout New South Wales was only $4,160. Therefore the loan enabled a person to acquire a home the value of which was even in excess of the average cost of a home in New South Wales at that time. In other words, a person receiving a war service homes loan could build a better home than the average home. But what is the position today? The Government says that its heart is bleeding for ex-servicemen and that it wants to make a contribution particularly to those young men who have just returned from Vietnam. I might mention in respect of the total number of men from all States who served in Vietnam the greatest percentage come from my own Stale of New South Wales. But what is this Government, whose heart is bleeding for them and which expresses great sympathy, doing for them? It has raised the limit of the loan from $8,000 to $9,000. 
I would like to quote from the latest report of the War Service Homes Division which states that the average cost of a dwelling on land in New South Wales is $14,990. Even with the increase of $1,000 which is provided under this Bill a person who receives a loan from the War Service Homes Division will still need $5,950 to pay for the cost of an average home and land. But back in 1950-51 when the average cost of a home and land was $4,160 the advance from the Division was $5,500. As I said  earlier  a person who received this loan could build a better than average house. But, of course, those were the days when the Liberal Party was a crusading party, when ex-service members of the Liberal and Country Parties sitting on the back benches loved to wear their badges and wore them with pride to show that they were ex-servicemen. They said that they 

<graphic href="075131197111250_53_4.jpg"></graphic>

would ensure that the ex-servicemen of the Second World War were given a good deal. This was the cry of those young crusaders at that time. The young Turks of the Liberal Party made sure that the amount of loan was increased and that the loan was set at a level far in excess of the average cost of a home. This is why I foreshadow that in Committee I shall move that the loan should be increased to $15,000. Even that figure, when we consider that the value of money in 1950-51 is not the same as today, is not adequate. But this is the figure set out in the policy of our Party and this is the figure that I will urge the Committee to accept. 
So that we can examine the record of the War Service Homes Division, the cost and the amount of money that has been spent on this scheme and the amount of money that has been received in revenue, 1 ask permission to incorporate in Hansard a table which was compiled by the research section of the Parliamentary Library. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197111250_53_4.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. It will be noted that at present there are still 10,300 applicants throughout the Commonwealth requiring war service homes. After many years there are many ex-servicemen for whom it is not even permissible to make an application for a war service home loan. For instance, up to 1952 it was permissible for a person who negotiated, a loan or a mortgage with a bank or lending society to transfer that loan to the war service homes scheme. That practice has been abandoned. An ex-serviceman who took out a loan from a bank or lending society because of the backlag in advances those early years and could not wait for a war service homes loan to be granted is not able to transfer that loan. I am in this category although I am possibly more fortunate than most people. I do not have to worry about the great burden because, putting aside all the problems that a parliamentarian has, at least I get a salary which is far in excess of what most people in the community receive. 
At least 70 per cent of the people earn less than the average weekly wage of J584 a week, so we know the great problems that most people face. I shall deal with some of the costs that people have. I have a great respect for officers of the War Service Homes Division. They administer the Act under great difficulties. 1 know of the potential of the Division. There is no limit to what could be done because in principle the war service homes scheme is probably the finest housing scheme that has ever been known in this nation. My Party and I would like to see the scope of the scheme expanded far beyond the area embracing those persons who are now receiving benefits from it. We would like the War Service Homes Division to lend up to 100 per cent of the value of properties against which advances are made. Also, we would like to see the establishment of a revolving fund within the Division to cater for all persons who come within the Commonwealth's constitutional responsibility, extend the purposes for which such an additional and supplementary war service homes advance can be made, and establish a war service homes financial division so that money could be made available over a wider spectrum at the realistic interest rate of 3t per cent. 1 know that this would not be easy to do but it could be done if there was planning of economic priorities. I do not see any reason why a nation such as ours cannot determine its priorities, and recognise that the housing of our people should be one of the highest. The Government has to determine these priorities. 
This Government is a lazy and a tired government after 22 years of administration. As I said, those young Turks who in 1950-51 were making sure that their comrades who served in the war would get a fair go, are silent today except for some crocodile tears. I am not a sarcastic man. I just feel so deeply about this. 1 feel sick - I do not want to use the word 'embittered' - when I see the hypocrisy rolling from that side of the House in expressions of sympathy for young servicemen from Vietnam. It riles me, feeling as I do about this Government. It has the opportunity to do more if it wants to be sincere. Where are those men who wore their RSL badges with pride? What are they doing to support the resolution that was brought into this House today? In his second reading speech the Minister for Social Services dwelt at length on the repatriation measures. This is a repatriation measure. The Minister has clearly indicated that this loan is no longer available for eligible persons to acquire a dwelling but to assist them to secure a home. To assist them! 1 thought the War Services Homes Act was intended to provide loans so that eligible persons could acquire homes. 
The Opposition wants to make this loan fund a recirculating fund so that when money is required it can be provided from the recirculated funds. Over the last 5 years this Government has been receiving more money by way of receipts from interest and repayments than it has been spending on war service homes. In 1966-67 it spent $59m and received $67m. In the following year it spent $46m and received S69m. In 1968-69 it spent $50m and received $72m. In the following year it spent $55m and received $77m, and last year it spent $61m and received $78m. In other words, there has been a credit over the last 5 years of something like $90m. I would like to see that amount recirculated into a loan fund. The Opposition would like to see these loans made available to other persons and the system as a whole grow. 
I want to deal now with an aspect that will be dealt with by the amendment that I have foreshadowed. I want to argue basically on the situation in New South Wales, and particularly in Sydney, in regard to the costs of houses and land. The position of the costs is everywhere an acute one but these costs differ from State to State and from city to city. There is no argument at all that in relation to these costs Sydney has the greatest crisis of any city in the nation, particularly with respect to land costs. Of course, housing costs go hand in hand with land costs. 
In Sydney the average cost of land is $8,000 and the average cost of a house in the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board area, which stretches from Kiama in the south to Brooklyn on the Hawkesbury River in the north to Emu Plains in the west, was $1 1,600. So, looking at the broad spectrum, in this area the average cost of land and dwelling is in excess of $19,000. Even the Government's table which I have incorporated in Hansard shows the average cost of land and dwelling in New South Wales to be $14,990. Surely honourable members on the other side of the House, particularly those from New South Wales such as the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who served with the forces and wears his Ail Force badge with great pride, should stand up and vote with the Opposition on this issue and on the amendment which will bo moved later. Surely the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who is a great war horse, a great man for blood and guts in war, a great supporter of the Vietnam war and the sending of our boys overseas, should vote with the Opposition. Where are those crusaders of the services on the Government side? I want to see them vote with the Opposition. The departmental figures are there for them to see. Going back through the history of this Government's administration one will find that at one time not only did the available loan meet the average cost of a war service borne, but that those eligible for one got an even better than average home. 
There are other aspects of this subject with which I want to deal in the Committee stages. I want to deal with aspects such as the power of the Director and the Minister. I want to consider the right of the Minister to define the power of the Director and to say what he can and cannot do. I would like to receive a stricter definition of the powers of the Minister. There are examples of instances where the Minister has even placed restrictions on the Director while on other occasions he has made his own independent decision. The Opposition wants to see a regulation controlling these powers. In November 1968 my Party moved an amendment and in the Committee stage of this Bill it will move a similar amendment. We will deal also in the Committee stage with other aspects, such as cases where a person is suffering from illness, and other difficult cases. We will consider the position of the widow of an eligible person and that of the wife of an eligible person who is temporarily oi permanently insane or incapacitated, in addition to other problems and technical detail which the -Opposition, due to its personal involvement, feels should be dealt with in the Committee stage. We hope that there will be sympathetic consideration for these matters on the Government side and that, even if honourable members opposite do not support the Opposition on this occasion, they will at least give the matters serious thought so that the Act can be altered in the near future. I hope that, on this occasion, even honourable members on the Government side will vote with the Opposition to support my amendment. 
The war service homes scheme commenced with very fine principles. The scheme has deteriorated because of the policy of this Government which has allowed inflation to run rampant. Housing and land costs have increased out of all proportion to the rise in average weekly earnings. During the Committee stage I will quote the figures for New South Wales with respect to war service homes. I point out now that land and housing costs in that State alone with respect to war service homes have risen some 3 times faster than average weekly earnings. 
It is with these words that I offer some criticism of this legislation. I hope that those honourable members on the Government side who wear their RSL badges with pride will at least vote with us to support our amendment seeking to increase the value of the war service homes loan to $15,000 so that the people in New South Wales to whom I have referred - and New South Wales is the most populous State of the Commonwealth - will be not only assisted to obtain a home but will be able to acquire a dwelling and so live with some security. If this is done they will also be able to live in some peace and will receive some reward for past service in time of war, whether they served in the Second World War or in Vietnam. 
-I move: 
Before paragraph (a) insert the following paragraph: "(aa) by omitting from sub-section (1.) the definition of 'Australian Soldier' and inserting in its stead the following definition: - 
Australian Soldier' means a serving member of the Forces or a former member who has been honourably discharged;' ". 
I have moved this motion because at present there is a restriction as to the type of persons who can get a war service home loan. To be eligible a person must, of course, have served overseas in a war zone and is basically treated in terminology as a returned soldier, sailor or airman. We feel that the legislation should be amended so as to cover other soldiers. I might ask Government supporters why they conscripted Australia's young people. The Government conscripted the young people of Australia because it argued that it was unable to get a sufficient number of people to join the military services. Consequently the Government has conscripted sufficient numbers for its military services. Many of these young people were sent to Vietnam or to Malaysia when it was involved in confrontation with Indonesia. 
The Opposition argues that a review of the inadequate conditions for soldiers of this country is long overdue. We on this side believe that if a person is prepared to join the forces he is entitled to services and amenities such as those provided by the war service homes organisation. We have consistently argued this proposition. We believe that a commonsense approach should be taken towards improving conditions for servicemen. On behalf of the Opposition I have moved this amendment to try to encourage this conservative government to improve conditions. By way of example I refer to a motion which was moved today in this House. It was a crocodile, tear motion, if I may say so. It was a motion of hypocrisy in regard to socalled 
 I seek leave to delete from my amendment the words or a former member who has been honourably discharged'. My amendment will then read: 
In clause 3. before paragraph (a) insert the following paragraph: (aa) by omitting from sub-section (1.) the definition of 'Australian Soldier' and inserting in its stead the following definition: 
Australian Soldier' means a serving member of the Forces. 
May I briefly point out to honourable members that the definition of 'Australian Soldier" is set out in section 4 (1.) of the Act as follows: 
Australian Soldier' means a person who, during the continuance of the war which commenced in the year One thousand n.'ne hundred and fourteen. . . . 
is or was a member of the Naval, Military or Air Forces of Australia enlisted or appointed for or employed on active service outside Australia or on a ship of war; 
In other words, an 'Australian soldier' - and I have been given this information by the departmental officers - means a naval, military or airman. 
asked the Minister for Housing,  upon notice: 
What was the interest rate charged by permanent building societies for loans made available in 1964 when the Home Savings Grant Scheme was introduced. 
What interest rate is now charged by permanent building societies. 
What is the total interest payable on a $14,000 loan from a permanent building society, repaid over 25 years, if the loan was negotiated in 1964. 
What is the total interest payable on a $14,000 loan from a permanent building society, repaid over 25 years, if the loan was. negotiated on existing interest rates. 
I ask the Committee to support the amendment which was moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in order to concur in the wishes of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  They expressed certain attitudes about an amendment which I had moved, and it was for this reason that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition moved the amendment which we are now considering. If one examines Hansard of last Thursday one finds certain requests being made by the honourable member for La Trobe. He made his position quite clear. He said that he would support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, and I hope that he will face his moral obligation and not submit to the pressure Of the Party room. I hope that he in fact honours his commitment to support the proposal to extend the provisions of the war service homes scheme to serving members of the permanent forces. If this amendment is accepted serving members of the permanent forces will be able to benefit from the provisions of the war service homes scheme. 
We know that this Government introduced conscription because it argued that it could not get a sufficient number of men into the Service in order to meet its commitments. The Government said that the only way in which it could get a sufficient number of men into the Services was by introducing conscription. Of course, the Gates Commission, which was established by President Nixon, stated quite openly that the Australian Government should have improved the rates of pay and conditions of service of Australian servicemen and conscription was not necessary. Therefore, the Opposition gives to those 2 gallant honourable gentlemen the opportunity to do the right thing and vote with the Opposition. We extend them that invitation; we even cut the cloth to their measure. We are asking them now to come across and vote for the amendment moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. We hope that when the division is taken both honourable gentlemen will be voting with this side of the House. 
To set out the history of the problems with which the honourable members for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  find themselves faced let me retrace the discussion that has taken place in this Committee. Firstly, on behalf of my Party, I moved an amendment in conformity with the policy of my Party. The same amendment had been moved in November 1968 by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who was then the Labor spokesman for housing. Last Thursday night I moved the following amendment: 
Before paragraph (a) insert the following paragraph: "(aa) by omitting from sub-section (I.) the definition of 'Australian Soldier' and inserting in its stead the following definition: 
Australian Soldier' means a serving member of the Forces or a former member who has been honourably discharged;' " 
During my comments I spoke of men from HMAS 'Sydney' who had served in Vietnam and who had been excluded from a war service homes entitlement because hey had not remained long enough in a war area. In other comments I set out the Labor Party's broad policy for improving the conditions of regular servicemen. As a result both the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for La Trobe showed some interest in the proposition put forward by the Labor Party. It was only when the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  was talking that the honourable member for La Trobe intimated that, if we amended our amendment in a certain way. he would give support to the Labor Party. I indicated from the table that I would do ?o. thereby allowing the honourable member for La Trobe to support us. 
At this stage - I say this in fairness to the honourable member for Moreton - there may have been some confusion. However, a new amendment was drafted by officers of this House. Because I had spoken twice in the Committee I was unable to move a new amendment and I sought leave to withdraw my original amendment. The new amendment was then moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  The proposition which he put forward covered the proposal that the honourable member for La Trobe had agreed to support. At that stage the proposal also had the support of the honourable member for Moreton because it covered servicemen in Vietnam. Indeed. I have no doubt that the amendment also covered the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who has many permanent servicemen stationed in Townsville. Many airmen, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Moreton, who have flown to Vietnam are excluded from war service homes entitlements. 
The Australian Labor Party would like to broaden the scope of eligibility under the war service homes scheme to a greater degree. I took it upon myself to alter the amendment. In other words, the Labor Party was prepared to make progress in that it seemed likely that 2 supporters of the Government - the honourable members for Moreton and La Trobe - would support our proposition. Therefore we did not go for the maximum; we were content to take a few steps so that serving members of the forces would have war service homes entitlements. I know that the honourable member for Moreton protests and says: 'Maybe the Government can make a further examination of the matter'. I want the Committee to understand that this amendment was moved by the Labor Party 3 years ago. The Government has done nothing yet about this matter. The honourable member for Moreton pointed out that he protested about the position when he was Minister for the Navy aud that he could not move his ministerial colleagues then. Of course, he has greater influence now: his influence has grown enormously since he has been removed to the back bench. He could not exert his influence when he was in the Ministry but he now feels that it will listen to him. 
The honourable member for La Trobe now says that he will not go along with the Labor Party's proposition even though he said last Thursday night that he would support it. What the honourable member said is recorded in black and white in Hansard. We are not trying to make political capital out of this. The fact is that the Labor Party is trying to make progress. 1 was prepared to break down my amendment. I took the authority to draw up a new amendment and my Executive and Party have endorsed this point of view. We have been told about the great amount of revenue that the adoption of our proposal would involve. However, in the last 5 years the Consolidated Revenue Fund has received from war service homes over $90m more than it has spent. In fact, in 1966-67 the Government spent $59m and received back $67m; in 1967-68 it spent $46m and received back $69m in 1968-69 it spent S5Om and received back $72m; and in 1969-70 it spent $55m and received back S77m. In 1970-71 it spent $61m and it got back S78m. In other words it has made a profit of $93m over the last 5 years. It is said that we cannot afford to spend the amount which our amendment would involve. One honourable member said it would cost $60m to implement our proposal. Yet the War Service Homes Division has made $93m profit in the last 5 years. 
We are asking for some progress to be made in improving the conditions of serving members of the permanent forces in this country. We know that this Government brought in conscription because it said it could not get a sufficient number of recruits into the permanent forces. When the Gates Commission, which President Nixon set up to inquire into all aspects of abolishing conscription in the United States, examined the Australian position it found that if ample incentives had been offered to Australians to join the armed forces it would not have been necessary to implement conscription in Australia to get a sufficient number of men into the Services. 
What are we saying here? We are saying that it is about time the Government woke up. lt is about time that it gave better conditions to the Australian servicemen. It is about time that those brave heroes on the back benches on the Government side who talk about blood and guts and who glorify war did something about improving conditions for those men who want to join the permanent military forces. We have given them another opportunity to support our amendment. The same amendment was moved in November 1968. We know that at least 2 members on the Government side have awakened from their slumber. They moved about one foot forward and then became a little frightened and jumped back again, lt is about time that one of them came over and voted with us. We hope that he will join with us so that some progress may be made in improving conditions for serving military personnel in this country. 
I move: 
In clause 4 omit 'Nine thousand dollars', insert Fifteen thousand dollars'. 
In clause5 omit 'Nine thousand dollars', insert Fifteen thousand dollars'. 
The idea of this legislation is to increase the amount of the war service loan from $8,000 to $9,000 and I want to point out to the Committee the inadequacy of this amount, particularly in New South Wales. The interim report of the War Service Homes Division for 1970-71 shows at page 25 that the average cost of land and dwelling in New South Wales purchased with a war service loan was $14,990 and yet this legislation makes available only $9,000. In other words, $5,990 has to be found by way of a second mortage. A person would be paying at least8½ per cent reducible and up to 10 per cent flat rate of interest on that second mortgage so some people are paying up to 20 per cent interest reducible on a second mortgage to close the deposit gap. Of course, this relates only to the average cost of land and dwellings built by the War Service Homes Division in New South Wales. That same report reveals that the cost to the War Service Homes Division of land and dwelling in Victoria is $13,500, in Queensland $13,800, in South Australia $11,700, in Western Australia $12,600 and in Tasmania $13,700. So one can see that the increase is inadequate. 
I ask that at least the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  pay me the courtesy of listening to me. He is an ex-serviceman. He is a member of the Cabinet but he is not even interested in the amendment. He is talking on the front bench. When he came into this place in 1949 he, with many other ex-servicemen, were the crusading young Turks who were going to make sure that the ex-serviceman got a fair deal and was able to acquire a home. But if one reads the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  one finds that all he says now is 'assist a person to acquire a home'. In other words, ail that the Government does now is to assist the ex-serviceman to get a home and not to acquire a home. In 1950-51, after the Menzies Government came into power, the loan available to ex-servicemen was $5,500 while the average cost of land and dwelling was $4,160. In other words, a person could build a home which was far in excess of the average cost of a home or dwelling. But today in New South Wales the average cost of land and dwelling has risen to $14,990 and all that this Government makes available by way of a loan is $9,000. I am asking those ex-servicemen, those crusading ex-servicemen, those young Turks of 1949  -  and I put the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is a member of the Cabinet, in that category - to use their power to give to exservicemen this added benefit by increasing the loan from $9,000 to $15,000 to enable them to buy a home. I ask the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is also an ex-serviceman and who was a young Turk in 1949-50, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  who is an exserviceman, the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  who is also an exserviceman and also all other exservicemen, including those in the Australian Country Party such as the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  who is an ex-serviceman and who was here in 1949, to support this amendment. I ask: Why are these ex-servicemen not assisting us by supporting the amendment to increase the loan from $9,000 to $15,000? The rising cost of dwellings and of land is one of the greatest of the crimes that can be attributed to this Government. In regard to the cost of land I want to quote from a table which was incorporated in Hansard on an earlier occasion and which has been prepared by the Library's Legislature Research Service. It deals with the movements in index numbers of the average cost of land on which houses have been financed under the War Service 
Homes Act compared with movements in index numbers of average weekly earnings. This table covers the years 1949-50 to 1970-71. Between 1949 and 1971 land cost in New South Wales for war service homes increased 14 times. In other words, with a base of 100 in 1949-50 the cost increased to 1,409 in 1970-71. During the same period average weekly earnings in Australia increased from 100 to 437 or 4-1/3 times. Therefore land costs have increased 3i times faster than average weekly earnings. This Government has allowed inflation to run rampant, has allowed the price of land to increase and the cost of housing to increase. Reports compiled by Government departments show clearly the increasing costs imposed on the community by this Government. 
We are asking honourable members opposite to vote for our amendment to increase the loan from $9,000 to $15,000. This is not simply something that has been pulled out of a hat. This is the policy of our Party. This was accepted at the last Labor Party conference, held at Launceston, and this action was taken after an evaluation of the whole situation in regard to housing costs with a view to finding a realistic level of costs. We know that in New South Wales alone land prices have increased tremendously, even over the last 3 years - and the Government in that State is a conservative government just as this Commonwealth Government is a conservative government. In the Sydney metropolitan area land prices have increased as follows: In Penrith from $2,500 in 1969 to $6,000 in 1971; in Blacktown from $3,300 in 1969 to $6,500 in 1971; in Baulkham Hills from $6,000 to $9,000; in Belrose from $8,000 to $13,500; in Hornsby, the electorate of the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  from $6,000 to $8,500. There has been an increase in the cost of land in Campbelltown, which is a new area and which is represented in this place by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bale)  from $2,800 in 1969 to $7,500 in 1971. These are examples of the increase in the price of land yet the maximum loan has been increased to only $9,000. 
The Opposition asks the Government to give a loan at least comparable in purchasing value to that which was available when it came into office in 1949. We ask the Government to make the loan the same in purchasing value us the loan which was available in 1949-50 when the average cost of a land and dwelling in New South Wales was 54. 160 and the maximum loan available was $5,500. We are asking honourable members opposite to support our amendment to increase the loan from $9,000 to $15,000. 
I move: 
After clause 4, insert the following new clause: 4a. Section 20 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1.) the words "Subject to this Act and to the directions of the Minister as to matters of general policy, the Director may, upon application in writing" and inserting in their stead the words "Subject to  this  Act, the Director may, upon application in  writing,  unless prevented by the regulations".' 
After clause 4, insert the following new clause: 4b. Section 21a of  the  Principal Act  is  amended by omitting the words "The Director shall not, except with the approval of the Minister" and inserting in their stead the words "The Director may, unless prevented by the regulations''.' 
The amendments seek to alter the Principal Act by taking from the Minister for Housing the right to issue directions to the Director of the War Service Homes Division on matters of policy in respect of the granting of loans for the enlargement of a dwelling house, the discharge of a mortgage, the completion of a partially erected dwelling house and the purchase of a dwelling house together with the land on which it is erected. 
I dwell principally on the first 2 matters to which I have referred. Section 20(1.) provides: 
Subject to this Act and to the directions of the Minister as to matters of general policy,  the  Director may . . . make an advance to an eligible person . . . 
The section states further: 
. for the purpose of enabling him - 
to enlarge a dwelling-house owned by him; or 
to discharge a mortgage, charge, or encumbrance already existing on his holding. 
Section 21a provides: 
The Director shall not, except with the approval of the Minister - 
make advances to any one eligible person in respect of more than one property. 
Proposed new clause 4a would reverse the situation. 
On at least5 separate occasions Ministers have exercised their authority under section 20 and section 21a of the Act to write to the Director and to issue ministerial directions. On one occasion the ministerial direction prohibited the Director from granting loans to personnel of the Citizen Military Forces and of certain women's auxiliary services. On another occasion the Minister gave in writing a ministerial direction about the discharge of mortgages. On another occasion a ministerial direction was issued concerning the transferring of loans. On still another occasion there was a ministerial direction concerning loans for the cost of making roads. On yet another occasion at this time there was a direction placing limitations upon the Director in respect of loans for the purposes of extensions. 
If there is justification for limitations of the kinds I have just mentioned, those limitations should be clearly set out in a regulation. A regulation has to be tabled in both Houses of Parliament, so there is an opportunity to disallow it. If the regulation were unreasonable it would have the effect of denying help to people who, we believe, should be helped. Either House would have the right to disallow the regulation. We want an open, democratic discussion so that this Government is free from any vice whatsoever. We cannot disallow the Minister's letter. We may not learn about it until months after it has been written. We may not even know of the existence of such a decision by the Minister. This is the reason for the amendment. We want all restrictions upon the Director set out in regulations which have to be tabled so that we shall have the right to examine them and if necessary disallow them. Therefore I have moved the amendments, in those terms. 
I move: 
After clause5 insert the following new clause: 5a. Section 29aa of the Principal Act is amended - 
by inserting in paragraph (b) in sub-section  (1.),  after the word 'Insane', the words 'or incapacitated'; and 
by adding at the end of sub-section  (1.)  the following paragraphs: "(c) she is an eligible person and is the widow of an ineligible person; or 
she is an eligible person and her husband is temporarily or permanently insane or incapacitated; or 
in the case of an unmarried person, he or she is temporarily or permanently insane or incapacitated; or 
where a person is the sole purchaser or borrower, he or she, or his or her spouse, is temporarily or permanently insane or incapacitated".'. 
This amendment was moved by the Opposition in November 1968 by the then Federal Labor spokesman for housing, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron);  so the Government has had ample time to study it. The amendment relates to very human problems arising from the personal experience of members of the Australian Labor Party. I do not move the amendment lightly. I ask the Government to give it some consideration and at least to allow some human blood to flow through its veins in dealing with these delicate problems. That is why I have moved the amendment. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article concerning Volunteer Citizens' Security Service Association which appeared on 21st July 1971 in the 'Aeroplane Press' a newspaper which is distributed within his electorate. 
If so, can he say whether this association is an offshoot of the Burwood Civil Defence Organisation and is designed to help protect the local residents. 
Will he instruct the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to investigate the activities of this organisation to ascertain whether it is using facilities provided by Commonwealth or State revenue. 
Is he able to say whether this association has set itself up as an administrator of the law, if so,whataction does the Government intend to take against it. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon  notice: 
What did  Mr Dunstan,  Premier of South Australia, say publicly with reference to the new Commonwealth-State housing scheme as set out in the 1971 Budget Speech (Hansard, 9th September 1971, page 989). 
Can he say where details of  Mr Dunstan's  public comments were published. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Was $43m allocated to the State of Tasmania for the 5-year period beginning 15th July 1967 for the purposes of assisting the State in an accelerated programme of electric power generation. 
Has a substantial portion of this money been used in the Gordon River project and in particular in the building of systems which will lead to the flooding of Lake Pedder. 
Has sufficient finance been provided to allow Tasmania to complete this project. 
Is he able to say whether the proposed flooding of Lake Pedder has caused considerable controversy and is bitterly opposed by conservation bodies. 
Has his attention been drawn to the large public pressure building up in Tasmania and on the mainland for an inquiry into the flooding of Lake Pedder. 
Is he able to say whether the retaining of Lake Pedder in its present state as a tourist and scientific area would outweigh the potential return from electricity generation over the long term. 
Would he on behalf of all Australians take all possible legal and financial steps to halt this project at its present state of development until the completion of a full inquiry into the Gordon River Scheme. 
I enter this debate for 2 major reasons. Firstly, I am deeply concerned about the motion moved by the Leader of the House, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  It is: 
That this House agrees with the Committee in its findings and is of opinion that it would best consult its own dignity by taking no further action in the matter. 
They sound very rational, balanced words - very rational indeed. But if one examines the recommendations of the Privileges Committee one finds that it could not present a majority decision to this Parliament. The Committee found after deep consideration that  Mr A.  D. Reid and  Mr D.  R. McNicoll were guilty. The Committee's findings were as follows: 
That the article published in the 'Daily Telegraph' of Friday, 27 August 1971 constitutes a contempt of the House of Representatives, and 
That  Mr A.  D. Reid as writer of the article and  Mr D.  R. McNicoll as Editor-in-chief. Australian Consolidated Press Limited, arc both guilty of a contempt of the House of Representatives in that they were responsible for the publication of a newspaper report which incorrectly described the proceedings of the House and misrepresented the proceedings of Members in the House. 
They were the findings and that is what is going to be recorded. May I say that I know from personal experience that the organisation for which  Mr Reid  and  Mr McNicoll  work is controlled by  Sir Frank  Packer. What concerned me when that motion was put was that I could see the hand, the power and influence of  Sir Frank  Packer coming into this Parliament.  Sir Frank  Packer is a powerful man and he will go after issues in which he believes. He also will defend the servants who work for him and obey his wishes, That is his attitude and he makes no bones about it. He calls a spade a spade. I had a struggle lasting  6i  years with  Sir Frank  Packer and during that time we had some direct confrontations. Neither he nor I ever pulled a punch in our private discussion. He is what he is and he will try to get his way no matter what it is. He is getting . his way and is influencing this Parliament and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and ali those who serve him. But he wants his reward. 
The honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  said that there would have been a difference if the words used had been 'walked away' and not walked out'. I ask the House to consider :he full text of the report, lt states: 
A group of ALP Parliamentarians walked out of the Chamber when the quorum was called, well knowing that their action could cause the collapse of the House of Representatives. 
What do we find spread out on the front page of the 'Daily Telegraph'? We see the words ' "Count Out" Shuts Parliament'. This was the first time in history that this had taken place and the Press wanted to use as a weapon the fact that members of the Labor Party had caused it. 1 was in the House, and this is the second aspect of the problem with which I want to deal. I want to bring forward evidence that I was in the House. 
If one reads page 792 of Hansard of 26th August 1971 one will find 2 interjections recorded in the speech of the honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann).  When the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  called a quorum I went over and had a few words with him. Little did we know at the time he called that quorum that the House would be counted out. I want to mention the names of the 5 members who were on the Labor Party side when the quorum was called. They were the honourable member for 
Kingston, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen),  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and myself. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  gave evidence to the Privileges Committee and was questioned about which members walked out. The transcript of evidence reads: 
The honourable member for Mitchell was in a dilemma trying to remember somebody who may have walked out. Evidence had been given that people walked out. I might say that in giving evidence the honourable member for Mitchell said that he was not even in the House when the quorum was called. 1 think in his evidence he said that he was on the telephone, and yet he could finish his telephone call and give his description of my activities in the House. The transcript of evidence continues: 
Chairman - Do yon feel certain in your own mind, sitting as you were on the ministerial front bench during that period, that no  member  left the chamber either from behind the Speaker's chair or out into the Opposition lobby? 
Chairman - Or through  the  door, opposite the Speakers chair? 
Chairman - He came back again? 
The transcript continues further: 
The evidence continues in that vein. Trie honourable member for Mitchell may be the person who helped to mislead  Mr Reid.  But it is no excuse for  Mr Reid  that he should have been misled by such a person. He should have been wise enough to know that he had made a mistake and that he should apologise. Surely we do not need any more than an apology. Honourable members might think that this is a simple thing. In fairness to  Mr Reid,  he is a journalist, he lives md works here and he accepts the forms  Df  the House, and he can probably accept that he should apologise. But the lord and master  Sir Frank  Packer is a different kettle of fish. He will not apologise. He is one who is going to be tough; he is the one who is going to say: To hell with them. I am not going to apologise'. This, is what we have to face. We have to face that man who says: 'To hell with Parliament. To hell with politicians; what does it matter about people who are elected? After all, I have the power to make these decisions and I will make the decision'. 
In the time that is left to me I would like to quote  2  further extracts of what was said by the honourable member for Mitchell. The report states: 
He said it was a walk-out. What evidence 
That is right, the honourable member says - it was a walk-out. The report continues: 
That was after - nothing to do wilh the circumstances - but I remonstrated with the Prime Minister and told him that he had no right to accept the responsibility as from what I knew and heard, it was a walk-out. 
Under examination the honourable member gave evidence that he had passed a group of people. At first be said that he did not know who they were. Then as shown on page  138  of the evidence the honourable member for Mitchell was under cross examination by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam): 

 Chairman - Thank you,  Mr Irwin. 
Anybody who has read the evidence and who wanted to be fair about it would know that there is something crook in Tallarook. They know that there is pressure, outside pressure. But does anybody get a Press like the honourable member for Mitchell gets in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph*. What contribution does he make to this Parliament? lt is laughable. It is just laughable that such an honourable member gets such a national coverage as he gets in the 'Daily Telegraph'. 
I have no personal animosity against  Mr Reid  or any other person but there is a' dignity involved here and a mistake has been made. I ask honourable members to support the proposition of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  that there has been a mistake made. The evidence is there. There was plenty of opportunity to prove it. It was hearsay.  Mr Reid  said himself that he was not in the House; he was relying on hearsay. If he is relying on hearsay he has to prove his case. We do not have to prove that he was wrong. 1 think we are entitled to an apology. If one is libelled outside this Parliament one is entitled to an apology. Under the Defamation Act one has to apologise. 
As far as I am concerned this House was defamed and it was used for political capital. This started off as a minor matter but it is now a major question because of the cobweb of deceit put through this evidence. It is a bit sickening that such members of Parliament as the honourable member for Mitchell could' give such evidence. I ask any honourable member to look at the evidence that he has given. It will be seen that there is a complete distortion of the facts and that he in fact probably was the informer who made that stupid story and sold the story and, of course, it is to  Mr Reid's  discredit that he did not check or double check sufficiently before he wrote it. 
-I direct my questionto the Prime Minister. He may recall my question to him on 13th September in which I sought a reduction in interest rates in the home building sector of the building industry in order to stimulate that section of the industry. In reply the Prime Minister indicated that he would keep a close watch on this section of the industry. Is he aware that there had been a 6.6 per cent decrease in the number of commencements of the houses and flats in the September quarter compared with the corresponding quarter in1 969 - 2 years ago - and that since that time 350,000 migrants have come to Australia and there have been over 220,000 marriages in Australia? Will the Prime Minister direct the Reserve Bank of Australia to reduce the interest rates applying in the home building sector in order to stimulate that sector of the industry and to assist young people and migrants to acquire homes? 

 - Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported: report adopted. 

 - Mr Speaker, I will make my comments brief. I wished to speak through you to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Since he is not here I do so through the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and I hope that he will give my remarks some consideration. In this gentle season when men remember they are brothers I want to make a request that we give special consideration to that young man, Geoffrey Mullen who is at present in Emu Plains. Geoff Mullen is a young man who has defied the National Service Act. He is due to be released from prison in February. I am asking the Government to give special consideration to releasing him by Christmans. I do this because he is a man of great moral courage. He has made his stand and I think he is prepared to take his medicine. He would not want me to make any special request on his behalf alone, but I think that he is an only son and that we should give some consideration to bis mother. 
 Geoffrey Mullen is a young man who defied the National Service Act. He has been in many gaols in the State of New South Wales. He has been in Long Bay Gaol. He was transferred from Long Bay Gaol to Berrima. I visited him in Berrima last Easter Saturday. He was transferred from there to Newnes at a later stage. From there he went to Silverwater. He was then transferred from Silverwater to Cooma. Recently, upon representations being made by myself and other honourable members he was transferred to Emu 
Plains. I might say in fairness to the New South Wales authorities that it is a far better prison for him to be in than Cooma. This is a special problem. 
The Government is bringing home from Vietnam its combat troops by Christmas. I wish it was bringing all its troops home. I will not make any criticism of past policy. This is not the time to critisice the Government. I am putting a special case to the Government and I hope that it will give it special consideration. Election policies are being talked about. The Government should treat this case sympathetically. It has been said that the Government may introduce its election policy by next March. If special consideration is given to Mullen, J will be grateful. At least I will see evidence of some human blood running through the veins of politicians. 
Anyone, who knows Mullen recognises that he is a boy with great moral courage. I admire him personally. We all know that mothers fee] for their sons and I want to see the boy home. I hope that not only will the Government give special consideration to Mullen but also that it will give special consideration to the others - there are not a great many because it is not the Government's policy to arrest many of these young people - who are in gaol. I hope that the Government will give special consideration to them too. But I ask particularly in respect of Mullen. I have kept a close eye on him. I have kept in touch with him and with his mother. I will not detain the House. I thank the Prime Minister for coming into the House. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: Can he provide statistics showing the - 
percentage of borrowers who obtained a housing loan from savings banks and who had to seek a second mortgage; 
average loan on a second mortgage; and 
average rate of interest paid by the borrowers on second mortgages since 1 July 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Are Charles Martin and Geoff Mullens at present in gaol for refusing to comply wilh the National Service Act. 
Have summonses been served on conscription resisters Paul Fox, Ian Turner, Tony Dalton, Michael Hamel Green, Karl Armstrong and Laurie Carmichael from Victoria, Peter Hornby, Jerrimy Gilling and Mike Matteson from New South Wales, Robert Hall from South Australia, Gary Cook from Western Australia and Steve Padghan from the Australian Capital Territory for refusing to obey call-up notices. 
If so, is it possible that within a few months there could be 14 young men held as political prisoners in Australian prisons because of their moral stand against conscription. 
asked the Treasurer,' upon notice:  ls he . able to give details of the cost to . the Commonwealth and State Treasuries of all direct and indirect subsidies or bounties paid in 1970-71, and the estimated cost in 1971-72. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What staff has been provided ' or will be provided to each of the new - Assistant Ministers'. 
What salary is paid or will be paid' in each case. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
ls mercury pollution becoming a danger to the Australian fishing industry and to people who eat fish in significant quantities. 
ls he able to say whether industrial plants producing caustic soda and chlorine from salt are a major source of mercury pollution in Australian waters. 
ls it a fact that most of the waste from caustic soda-chlorine plants enters estuarine and coastal waters and under these conditions mercury can enter marine food chains. 
If so, is it a Commonwealth responsibility to watch the development of the caustic sodachlorine industry which at present is growing considerably in Australia because of the need for caustic soda in alumina production. 
Has his attention been drawn to a proposal to set up a caustic soda-chlorine plant near the Great Barrier Reef. 
Did he indicate in answer to question No. 2579 (Hansard, 18th August 1971, page 271), that no systematic check for mercury pollution existed in Australia. 
If so, will he take steps, as a measure of great urgency, to set up standards covering the release of mercury by these plants. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That  an  alternative scheme exists, which,  if  implemented would avoid inundation of thislake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. Allpresent and particularly future Australians will Benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I speak this morning in regard to Lake Pedder. For months petitions have been presented to this Parliament to save Lake Pedder. Last week I sent a telegram to the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  seeking his personal intervention to stop the flooding of Lake Pedder. 1 also said in that telegram that if increased expenditure was needed to save Lake Pedder the Commonwealth should make Commonwealth grants available to the Tasmanian Government to preserve this unique natural wonderland. I make this plea. Time is short. Water has been building up behind the newly completed dam on the Serpentine River in Tasmania since the diversion tunnel for the dam was closed in December. If rainfall is normal the water will reach Lake Pedder in early or mid April. A priceless jewel in the wilderness of south west Tasmania will be drowned for ever. 
The loss of Lake Pedder is a national and world tragedy. We should be preserving it in a world heritage trust. The real issue here is whether or not we will all stand by and let this happen. It need not happen and it still need not happen. The gates on the Serpentine River can be reopened to take the pressure off Lake Pedder temporarily while the situation is reviewed. Funding for the Serpentine dam. the Scott's Peak Dam. the Gordon River Dam and related power generating facilities, all of which make up the Gordon River project, has substantially come from the Commonwealth I might say that the Opposition supported the Tasmania Agreement (Hydro-Electric Power Development) Bill 1968 to make available $47m in bridging finance. A large proportion of this money was to be used for the Gordon River project, although it must be admitted that it is difficult to earmark which dollars have gone where. However it is beyond dispute that Commonwealth money is heavily involved. Likewise in Tasmania the scheme has a bipartisan support and the Liberal Government elected in 1969 continued to implement a scheme commenced by the proceeding Reece Labor Government. 
However, times have changed and since 1968 we have experienced a revision of values and priorities about our environment. No longer are we blinded by the power of our own technology, by economic growth for its own sake, and by the subjugation of nature. If the gates on the Serpentine Dam are opened now, we can all gain a breathing space and re-assess the situation. There have been mistakes on all sides. Now is the time to set aside politics and admit we were all wrong, including all of us in this Parliament wilh the exception, of course, of the new members who have entered the Parliament since 1969. We lacked information at that time and we gave little thought in granting this money to Tasmania in 1968. Let us be big enough and admit we were wrong. Let us rectify our mistake. This is what I am asking the Government to do. 
There are several alternatives which could still be implemented to save Lake Pedder. The easiest would be not to dam the Huon River al Scott's Peak at all and to use the pumping system to move water from the Serpentine Dam to the Gordon Dam. Other alternatives include the building of an artificial channel or flume around Lake Pedder from Scott's Peak Dam to Serpentine Dam. The first scheme would reduce the total capacity of the storage by about 13 per cent but this will be the biggest manmade lake system in Australia - 13 million acre feet - if it is built as presently planned, and 1 stress that this is one of the wettest parts of Australia and there is no fear of drought. None of the alternative schemes would affect the power generating function of the middle Gordon scheme at all, for the Serpentine-Huon system is mainly an extra reservoir of water. 
The cost of saving Lake Pedder has been estimated at between $5m and $25m depending upon who gives the estimate. However, the higher figure does include (lira for lost electricity production over the next 50 years. It is difficult to see how this figure is arrived at, as no alterations to the power generation facilities are necessary for any of the alternative schemes. What is necessary is courage, leadership and the support of this Parliament. I say that this Parliament has a bipartisan approach. I ask the Prime Minister again: Will he contact the Premier of Tasmania and ask him to halt the flooding of Lake Pedder? At the same time he could offer assistance from the Snowy Mountains Authority to give technical aid with the skills that the Authority has, as well as financial assistance. There exist precedents for such actions. 
In the report of the United States Congress Council for the Environment Quality  President  Nixon clearly states what he did in 1971 in regard to the Cross Florida Barge Canal - he stopped it. Additionally, he authorised the purchase of about one million acres of land in Central Florida. Both of these steps were taken to ensure a good supply of fresh water to one of America's great national assets - the Everglades National Park. At the time of the halt of the canal construction $50m had already been spent. One has to examine the magnitude of the money involved because we have to be concerned about our future. We want to build beautiful structures in Australia but we want to try to keep what beauty we have now instead of destroying it. Tn 1963 a similar move prevented the flooding of the Grand Canyon by a manmade lake. In 1972 it already seems inconceivable that man could have ever considered flooding such a treasure which belongs not only to the people of Arizona and the people of the United States of America but also to the people of the whole world. So let it be with Lake Pedder. If we act now it will be a great moment for global conservation. Now is the time to act. Let us preserve this area of unique culture for mankind for all time. 
In urban Australia 88 per cent of our people are crammed into our cities. We want to keep these places of unique beauty in a state of preservation so that we do not destroy our environment around us just because of some short term economic gain. We want to look to a wide horizon because when we destroy our environment we are in fact destroying part of ourselves. I do not believe that there is any short cut in this issue. If mistakes are made we have to be big enough to say: 'We made these mistakes. We have examined them and reexamined them and we will try to rectify the matter.' I think that the only place in which they can be rectified and the only place from which the financial resources can be made available is this Commonwealth Parliament. I ask the Commonwealth Government to make the money available to the Tasmanian Government which is short of financial resources. I know that the hydro-electric authority in Tasmania has great power and that to some extent the economic future of Tasmania is involved, but from a long term point of view the beauty of Tasmania should be retained. Therefore I am asking in this plea that consideration be given at this late stage to preserving the Lake Pedder national park. Let us stop the proposed project and make the finance available for the preservation of this area. Let us open the gates to a review of the question so that we might be able to rectify a mistake that this Parliament has made. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did the Government in 1965 receive a proposal from the Australian Academy of Science for a biological survey of Australia. 
Was an updated version of the proposal re-submitted in November 1968. 
If so, what progress has been made in the consideration of this proposal. 
If no progress has been made, is the Government delaying action pending the receipt of the report of the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. 
As public evidence presented to the Committee indicates that a thorough and continuing survey of Australian ecosystems is highly desirable, will the Government arrange for the survey to be commenced without delay. 
We are discussing a ministerial statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  that was delivered to this House last Thursday, and an amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  this afternoon to the motion that the House take note of the paper. 1 propose to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. The rational speech just delivered by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  should spread enlightenment in this chamber. We know of course that the honourable member is leaving the sinking ship. He expressed the view that we should not blame all on the unions. Coming from his side of the House that is a commendable statement. I want to elaborate on and develop some of the honourable member's comments about the monopoly sector. It has been said on that side of the House that every increase in prices is due to wage increases demanded by the unions, but I point out that of about 82,000 companies that last year made profits in this country of §3,1 03m, about 240 companies made 38 per cent of those profits. I have taken those figures from a report of the Commissioner of Taxation. The report shows that Australia's top 1,100 companies shared 60 per cent of the profits of $3, 103m, and the remaining 80,900 companies shared the balance of 40 per cent of the profits. 
It is this monopoly sector that determines the prices of its commodities and can pass on increases to the purchasers, whether they are wage increases or any other type of increases. The profits may be used for the development of the companies or can be distributed to shareholders living in other countries. No action at all has been taken by any Federal government in the past 20 years to deal with this sector of the economy that has worsened year by year. More and more the monopoly sector takes control of the economy. My colleague the honourable  member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has dealt with that aspect. The Leader of the Opposition put forward progresive propositions in that regard. I do not want to deal broadly with the economy. As federal spokesman for my Party on housing and urban affairs 1 want to deal with some matters related to housing. 1 want to touch on the struggle of young people to acquire a home or to purchase land on which to build a home. The Treasurer said in his statement to the House: 
There are indeed some flat spots in the economy, of which the most notable and important is in the area of consumer spending. 
The Treasurer did not refer at all to the home building sector of the building industry which was also a flat spot. He went on to say: 
In the field of private investment, however, dwelling construction turned upwards in the first half of 1971-72 and recent trends both in commencements and approvals. . . . 
That statement was made last Thursday. On Friday the Bureau of Census and Statistics revealed that building approvals for January 1972 were 9,247, the lowest figure for January for 5 years. It was 2.8 per cent below approvals of 9,511 for January 1971, and 7.3 per cent below approvals of 9,973 for January 1970. The Treasurer is in control of the Bureau of Census and Statistics, but on last Thursday evening he said that there was an upward trend in building approvals while on the following day the Bureau revealed that there had been in fact a downward trend. The figures released by the Bureau show that in the first 6 months of 1971-72 an increase of 3.9 per cent took place in building commencements compared with the period 1st July 1970 to 31st December 1970. Against the corresponding period in 1969 there is a 4.7 per cent drop in the last half of 1971. 
The housing shortage is most acute in the most populous States of New South Wales and Victoria. Building approvals in New South Wales from July 1971 to December 1971 were up by 1.9 per cent on the approvals in the last half of 1970, and 9.4 per cent down on the approvals in the period July to December 1969. For Victoria the comparable falls are 0.7 per cent when compared with July-December 1970 and 9.9 per cent when compared with July-December 1969. lt is just ludicrous for the Treasurer to use the type of argument he did to support these figures. This Government made a decision in April 1970 to impose credit restrictions and increase interest rates and this affected the small people. There was no real demand pressure in the home building sector of the building industry. In fact, the great barometer - and one can take cither approvals or commencement, although I regard commencements as more realistic - indicates that in 1968-69 the commencements were up 20 per cent on the previous year. In 1969-70 when the credit restrictions were imposed they were up only 1 1 per cent on the previous year. In 1970-71 there was a slight rise of only 2 per cent. When one examines where the real wealth is going one finds it is to the commercial building sector of the building industry through the construction of big office blocks in the central business districts of our cap:tal cities. I hops I have time to expand on this. 
In 1968-69 the value of new office buildings approved rose by 14 per cent. In 1969-70 when the restrictions were imposed it increased by 71 per cent, so it can be seen where the wealth was going. But what happened when the credit restrictions were imposed? The wealth was diverted more and more into the sector which had the highest profit margins, the commercial buildings in the central business districts of the capital cities. I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  whether the Commonwealth Government would control  foreign investment and development investment in the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne in particular and whether it would control the major insurance companies which were diverting their wealth into these big speculative building enterprises. The Prime Minister in reply said that although he could not give the figures in regard to foreign investment - and a great deal of it was confidential information - he was able to supply me with the figures for insurance company investment in developments and figures for their reserve funds. In a reply to me dated 13th 
December  1971  he said that investment in development in office buildings had increased from  6.6  per cent in  1961  to  14.1  per cent in  1971.  These were only percentages so I sought details from the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Statistical Service and I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the selected assets and liabilities of life insurance statutory funds in Australia. 
-I ask the Minister for Housing whether he agrees that the building industry and associated industries are the biggest employers of labour in Australia. Is it a fact that approvals for dwellings in January were the lowest for that month for 5 years and that commencements of new dwellings in the first half of this finan  cial year are 4.7 per cent down on the same period 2 years ago, and in Victoria and New South Wales nearly 10 per cent down? Has his attention been drawn to the statement by T. A. Dalton, Vice-President of the Master Builders Federation, that the action taken by the Government with the State Premiers was inadequate to stimulate the building industry? Does the Minister agree that unless interest rates are reduced- 
-I present the following petition. 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they have no objection to the Aboriginal Embassy being on the lawns outside Parliament House. 
That they believe that the Aborigine, in common with all other Australian citizens, have a right to assemble in any peaceful manner of their own choice. 
And that they would object to any law that would make their being there illegal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government does not enact any law that would detract from or hinder the rights of the Aborigines to be there. 
And further that the Government instructs its officers not to interfere with the Aborigines who are peacefully assembled outside Parliament House. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
This Government and successive governments since 1950 have done nothing about decentralisation, except for Canberra, but the Government did not develop this city as a decentralisation project. Despite that, Canberra is a success story, but its negative aspect is that it has been developed in complete isolation. The Chifley Government, after the last war, with the aid of some talented public servants established an administration and set out plans to encourage decentralisation. Conservative Commonwealth governments since 1950 have destroyed the opportunity to create a new settlement pattern in Australia. During the post-war years Australia's population increased by almost 65 per cent. The populations of Sydney and Melbourne increased by nearly 60 per cent. The main reasons for the increases in population were the economic and immigration policies started by the Chifley Government. These policies were outlined in the White Paper on Full Employment in 1945 and were expanded in subsequent papers. The activities of the Department of Post-War Reconstruction and the Department of Immigration saw Australia's early post-war development off to a good start. For example, of the 32 factories handed over to industry after the war 20 were in country areas. But in 1949, when the Menzies Government came to power, despite all the rhetoric at the time, it was quite happy to inherit part of Labor's policy. Unfortunately for Australia today, the Menzies Government did not realise that encouraging secondary industry and immigrants was only half the story. As the Minister for PostWar Reconstruction,  Mr John  Dedman, said in 1948: 
Now that nearly all the factories built in wartime have in some way been disposed of, the decentralisation movement must not stop. Ti we are to develop to the full a country the size of Australia, there should be the greatest possible balance in the distribution of population. We are looking to increasing our population by sustained large-scale immigration. 
This will require new secondary industry to provide employment opportunities. As far as possible, we want those employment opportunities to be provided by developing the relatively smaller industrial centres rather than by continued development of Sydney and Melbourne. 
In 1948 Labor realised it would be selfdefeating to develop rapidly Australia's population and resources without taking the necessary action to direct and encourage the place and manner of that development. Federal Liberal-Country Parties have never shown any sign of understanding this. Australia's development over the last 20 years has been done on the never never, but today in our capital cities and country towns the debt collector is knocking on many doors. Let us examine the Government's record on what it calls decentralisation. Firstly, the sophisticated regional planning structure which, in co-operation with the States, had been built up prior to 1949 was quickly dismantled. Detailed surveys of regional resources had been made and machinery of government was prepared to plan and implement development in country areas away from the main cities. After 1949 the flow of public reports and surveys stopped, and has never been resumed. Today, 22 years later, the remains of that post-war regional planning unit exists within the Department of Trade and Industry. Over those many years fewer than half a dozen people have mouldered away in a little backwater. The early idealism and energy have become victims of the shortsightedness of this Government. 
Secondly, some of the States, pushed on by the Country Party, have made numerous irrelevant handouts to locate numerous little industries in numerous little towns. It has been obvious that this policy of dispersed decentralisation has no effect on limiting the growth of the main cities and very little effect on stimulating development and employment in the country. Although the State governments have been told by their expert advisers that decentralisation efforts must be concentrated in a few towns, no action has been taken. The Commonwealth could have given a lead to the States. It could have assisted them to overcome parochial politics and named growth centres which could be the object of co-ordinated Commonwealth, State and local government action. Thirdly, Commonwealth-State discussions on decentralisation have been held over the last 7 years but no reports, no conclusions and no action have been forthcoming  -  7 years, during which time Australia's population has increased by 1.7 million. A report of this CommonwealthState Officials Committee has been prepared. It has not been published nor, as we have come to expect from this secrecy ridden Government, have any of the studies on which the report is based. 
Some idea of the worth of the report and studies can. be found in the opinion of the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development. It has dissociated itself - I emphasise that - from the report. The Department considers that the report is irrelevant, that it fails to evaluate the justification for decentralisation in any systematic way or to arrive at an overall conclusion, and that it has ignored the very important sociological considerations simply because they cannot be qualified in strict economic terms. Even in these strict economic terms - I quote now from the New South Wales report - one of the studies 'indicated, conservatively, prospective public savings of $120m if between the years 1970 and 2000, 500,000 persons from Sydney's future growth were diverted to non-metropolitan country centres'. New South Wales complains that the report fails to emphasise that fact. If the optimum country centres were chosen, the actual savings could be well in excess of $120m. The 1968 Sydney Outline Plan was based on the assumption that 500,000 people would be diverted from Sydney to decentralised centres, yet no action has been taken by this government to bring this about. There are many other objections which the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development has set out in a report. I seek leave of the House to have a letter dated 25th October 1971 to the  Chairman  of the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation incorporated in Hansard. 
Telephone 27-2741, Mail Address Box 4169. G.P.O., Sydney, N.S.W. 2001 25th October, 1971. 
The  Chairman,  Commonwealth/State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation, 
Prime Minister's Department, 
CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 
Dear  Sir, 
On behalf of New South Wales I regret that I must dissociate myself from the Report of the Commonwealth/State Officials' Committee. 
On the assumption that the fundamental aim of the Commonwealth/State Consultations is to identify and evaluate the justification for decentralisation as a public policy objective, it is submitted on behalf of New South Wales: 
that the Report is largely irrelevant in that this basic issue is overlaid with a great deal of discursive material and. in particular, by repetitious discussion of alternativeways and means of decentralisation which, howeverimportant in themselves, are nevertheless secondary to the central question of justification; 
that the Report, to the extent that it does concern itself with evaluating the justification for decentralisation, fails to do so in any systematic way and avoids any attempt to assemble the sum total of the arguments for and against decentralisation and arrive at an overall conclusion: 
that, however limited the studies and however marginal the conclusions in each case, if the evidence of the research studies undertaken by the Committee, namely the Public Costs Studies, the Private Costs Studies, the Labour Studies, and the preliminary findings of the Melbourne/Wagga Wagga Traffic Congestion Studies (which have yet to be adapted to Sydney) were in fact systematically assembled, the aggregate net balance would constitute a positive justification for decentralisation: and 
that, if, to the evidence of the Committee's studies so aggregated, were added some weighting for the sociological considerations which can be identified if not precisely quantified, the justification for decentralisation as a public policy objective would be not only positive but decisive. 
In tendering these dissenting submissions itis conceded that the Commonwealth/State Comm it tee, when it commenced to identify a research programme in 1966, found itself embarking upon a series of studies involving some exceedingly complex conceptual considerations in an area characterised by inadequate and unreliable data. 
It is also conceded that the limited staffing resources available to the participating Governments, not least those contributed by New South Wales, have necessarily imposed severe restraints upon the extent and depth to which the various studies have been pursued and accentuated the time required to complete them. 
Notwithstanding these reservations it is nevertheless considered that the scope and quality of the Report are not commensurate with the expectations which will attach to it after its long period of gestation. 
In dissenting from the majority view it should also be emphasised that the New South Wales attitude is dictated largely by the State's accumulated experience in the field of decentralisation and by its particular circumstances. Demographically New South Wales has by far the most acute decentralisation problem, and its central metropolitan core is both the nation's largest concentration of population and topographically the most difficult and expensive urban area to service. 
Specifically, therefore, having regard to New South Wales circumstances, it is considered that Chapter 2 of the Report does not sufficiently identify the magnitude of the metropolitan demographic imbalance nor the fact that, without a substantial amelioration of present trends, well over 80 per cent of the State's population is likely to be concentrated in the central coast metropolitan complex by the turn of the century. 
Again, given the circumstances of Sydney as a pre-existing and unavoidable component in any comparisons, it is considered that Chapter 3 of the Report understates the significance of the Forward Estimates Public Costs Studies. These Studies indicated, conservatively, prospective public savings of $120m if, between the years 1970 and 2000, 500,000 persons from Sydney's future growth were diverted to non-metropolitan country cities chosen, for the purposes of the Study, with a view to establishing a topographical and geographical average basis for comparison. The Report fails to emphasise that in practice, if optimum non.metropolitan locations were chosen, the savings could well be substantially in excess of $120m. 
Moreover, to the extent that the Victorian Historic Public Cost Studies and the New South Wales Forward Estimates Studies are comparable, in that they represent public costs studies over different periods of time, there would appear to be some basis for the view that the future disparity between Sydney metropolitan public costs and non-metropolitan public costs could in fact be an accelerating phenomenon. In other words, it is at least arguable that the public cost disadvantage of metropolitan expansion is likely to increase with time. 
Again, in any discussion of centralisation the particular circumstances of New South Wales are significant. Generally it is considered that the Report is defective throughout in that it introduces confused and unsatisfactory generalisations about centralisation per se. For New South Wales the fundamental issue is not the inevitability of centralisation in itself, but the cost of continued centralisation in metropolitan Sydney. 
The Report fails to acknowledge that concentration in the metropolitan area is the product of a multitude of individual decisions made within constraints imposed by the increasing interdependence of firms and individuals in a post-industrial society. In New South Wales one of these constraints is undoubtedly the fact that there are at present no major alternative urban locations outside the central coast metropolitan complex from which to choose. Indeed, it may be that the unresolved public debate on this question in New South Wales is in fact causing industrialists and investors to defer making decentralisation decisions. 
On the other hand the fact that, notwithstanding these constraints, a number of major relocation decisions have been made in New South Wales in recent years9 is a reflection of the increasing amenability of metropolitan industries to relocation and the fact that public sector assistance, on a relatively modest scale, can be a persuasive influence. To this extent, the Private Costs Studies undertaken in New South Wales and Victoria to which the Report refers in Chapters 2 and 5 are descriptive studies of attitudes to cost differentials which, at least in New South Wales, can be overcome. In other words, New South Wales does not accept the inevitability of continued metropolitan concentration on the present scale. 
Particularly in relation to New South Wales it is considered that Chapter 4 of the Report is inadequate in both style and content. Sociological considerations may be difficult if not impossible to quantify. It is nevertheless submitted that no evaluation of decentralisation can purport to be complete without identifying them and according them due weight. The degree of due weight is of course arguable. 
* For example: W. E. Smith Engineering to Coffs Harbour in June, 1969; Clyde Engineering to Bathurst in April, 1970; Borg-Warner Australia Limited to Albury in January, 1971; Speedo Knitting Mills to Taree in March, 1971; and Lamson Paragon to Wagga Wagga in July, 1971. 
From the statistical data available it has not been possible to establish conclusively that the incidence of crime, juvenile delinquency, desertion, drug addition and mental disturbance is higher per capita in the metropolitan area. Consequently it has not been possible to attempt to quantify these factors in money terms. 
On behalf of New South Wales, however, it is strongly asserted that, as presently structured, the Sydney metropolis is a social phenomenon which is beyond human scale, that, while it has as yet been spared the consequences of serious racial segregation, it nevertheless manifests a massive and increasing trend towards socio-income segregation; and that the higher order facilities of a big city (including central city job opportunities) are not in practice accessible to or utilised by its inhabitants to an extent commensurate with their apparent availability. 
It is submitted that these characteristics of metropolitan Sydney are adversely influencing the quality of government and community organisation, the character of socio-industrial relations, and the overall quality of the living environment. It is submitted moreover that, if the extent of these adverse influences could be quantified, their economic cost would be high indeed. 
In the case of industries which have recently relocated outside the metropolitan area, a significant explicit motivation has been avoidance of the industrial labour environment. The available evidence suggests that in the older established industrial suburbs - which could only be restructured at enormous cost - industrial militancy is being aggravated by non-industrial frustrations stemming from excessive travelling times and costs, poor quality housing and/or the unavailability of housing finance except for newer dwellings in the outer suburbs, the increasingly high ratio of homesite costs to weekly earnings, and the impersonality, anonymity and lack of identification inherent in a conglomerate metropolitan environment. 
That there are social advantages attaching to life in the metropolitan area compared with life in a small provincial city is not denied. But it is contended that these advantages could be reproduced more accessibly in socially better integrated major urban areas elsewhere. There is no evidence in the research studies to support the claim that these social advantages constitute a number of powerful social factors which work to accentuate the trend towards centralisation' - certainly not m terms of justifying continued metropolitan centralisation. 
Finally, in distinguishing the particular New South Wales circumstances which compel dissent from the majority Report, it is contended that Attachment 'B' is misleading. If the general material purporting to demonstrate Commonwealth activity in the non-metropolitan sector is to be included in Attachment 'B', then the New South Wales section should be expanded to include appropriate references to matters such as rural electrification, the proportionately greater per capita provision of public housing, roads, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges in country areas. State water conservation and irrigation works, and the extent to which the State administration has been decentralised. 
The foregoing observations are dictated by considerations which the Committee may choose to regard as peculiar to New South Wales and therefore distinguishable in a report purporting to represent an overall national assessment. 
An equally tenable view, however, is that the considerations which have been enunciated in respect of New South Wales and which, it ls submitted, clearly justify a policy of decentralisation in New South Wales, represent in their most acute form considerations which, in kind if not in degree are valid in respect of all the mainland States. 
Quite apart from these considerations, however, it is the New South Wales view that there are a number of other deficiencies of substance in the Committee's Report which it is unable to accept. 
Of these, particular attention is drawn to the following: 
In relation to New South Wales reference has already been made to one of the most fundamental considerations, touched on conjecturally but not seriously dealt wi«.h in the Report, viz. the possibility of remedial action in major cities as an alternative to decentralisation. The Report states that such remedial action may involve "some costs" and a further reference claims that this approach "possibly could prove to be no more costly than planned decentralised development". The possibility of accommodating a substantially increased population in, say, the central coast metropolitan complex of New South Wales  at  acceptable standards of economic efficiency and in acceptable sociological terms is not denied. The replanning and restructuring of Sydney or Melbourne in these terms, however, was not in fact costed in any of the research studies undertaken by the Committee. Indeed, it is important to recognise that the Forward Estimates Studies -vere based on orthodox metropolitan expansion into outer suburban areas involving development not significantly different from urban development in a non-metropolitan location. Notwithstanding this the Forward Estimates Studies indicated a prospective differential in favour of non-metropolitan expansion of $120m. If the Studies had embraced the replanning and restructuring of the existing metropolitan area, there is every reason to suppose that the cost differential would have been overwhelmingly greater. 
The Report touches upon the problems of the rural sector. In the New South Wales view the scope for further argument has not been sufficiently exploited. The provision of permanent, productive urban employment opportunities in decentralised locations is at least an arguable long-term economic proposition compared with the continued disbursement of rural subsidies. 
The Report comes to speculative conclusions in respect of the attitude of firms to external diseconomies which are unsupported by the evidence of any studies undertaken bv the Committee. In the New South Wales view the total public interest embraces more than private firms' decisions and the relevant question is not whether metropolitan firms would or would not be prepared to accept the full cost of external diseconomies. If in fact metropolitan firms were prepared to meet the full cost of external diseconomies and still choose to remain in the metropolitan area the implications of this in terms of productivity and international cost comparisons could well be a matter of grave public concern. 
Several references in the Report to the relative importance of tourism in relation to secondary industry are disputed. In the New South Wales view the Report's predisposition towards secondary industry is neither relevant to the central question of justification of decentralisation per se nor tenable in the light of the evidence of Canberra, Darwin, the Gold Coast and Port Macquarie, the increasing preponderance of the tertiary sector workforce, and the demonstrable and increasing economic significance of tourism. Generation of people and employment is the ultimate yardstick. There is considerable support for the view that tertiary sector development may well generate a larger and more attractive base for secondary industry. 
The Report discusses the administrative organisation of selected growth centres and advocates that their planning and construction should be undertaken by a special authority in each case. This is not necessarily disputed, although the amalgamation of contiguous local government areas  in an urban county could well be a satisfactory alternative. The various expressions of opinion on this subject are not relevant to the central question of justification, however, nor do they derive from any studies undertaken by the Committee directed to the specific question of new town administration. More importantly, when combined with references to staged development, they tend to divert attention from what, in the New South Wales view, is a simple basic proposition, viz. that decentralisation is essentially a relocation of urban development which will take place - and be funded - in any event. Outer suburban shires in Sydney have assimilated the population of Canberra several times over during the last decade. 
Finally, whether they be discounted as a hypothetical contingency which defies rational calculation or admitted, as some would argue, as an incalculable but compelling factor of over-riding importance, it is considered that any comprehensive evaluation of decentralisation must include at least some reference to national strategic considerations. 
Yours faithfully, 
-I thank the House. This well argued letter supports the policies of the Federal Labor Party. It points to the ways in which many people in Sydney have to suffer excessive travelling time and costs, poor quality housing, the unavailability of housing finance and the increasingly high ratio of home site costs to weekly earnings. It highlights the ills of Sydney and indicates the magnitude of the task of overcoming more than 20 years of Federal inaction. In the time available to me I want to set out some of the programme that a Federal Labor government would carry out. it would set up a department of urban affairs and regional development the main function of which would be to control the allocation of resources for the development of urban areas, lt would identify a number of sites for new cities in cooperation with the respective State governments. The sites would be developed to provide effective regional development in order to arrest the depopulation of the countryside and to slow the growth of our capital cities. A Labor government would, in co-operation with the States, nominate certain existing country cities and towns as growth areas and authorise the Commonwealth Grants Commission to recommend the nature and amount of Commonwealth financial assistance required to remove the problems of servicing these regional centres. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr 
Whitlam) has nominated the AlburyWodonga area as one such area. It will not be developed in isolation but as a growth area in a corridor of development between Sydney and Melbourne. A Labor government would upgrade the Hume Highway to a 4-lane highway and modernise the railway system with the most modern technology in track, locomotives and rolling stock between these cities. Other growth areas will be determined along the corridor to make the fullest use of investment in road and rail. 
Areas that have been designated as growth centres will get reduced charges, on telephone and telex services and their costs will be brought into line with such charges to industries in capital cities. A Labor government would, as a matter of priority, make land available at low cost - it will be leasehold land - and good housing at low interest. These cities would be pleasant places to live in. Let me answer the question: Where is the money coming from? It is cheaper to provide such development than to tear the inside out of the inner suburbs of our capital cities. For example, it cost $27m to build  ) miles of the Warringah Expressway which, if completed, will cost $400m but will solve no problem. The western and north western distributors proposed to be built in Sydney will cost between $200m and $300m for their first 5 miles and destroy some of our finest terraced dwellings in the inner suburbs. Similar problems will occur in Melbourne. By diverting expenditure to the growth areas in Labor's regional development plans we would help many to enjoy life and would give them the opportunity to make life worth while. In the few moments I have left I wish to quote from the letter which has been incorporated. Tt states: 
For New South Wales the fundamental issue is not the inevitability of decentralisation in itself, but the cost of continued centralisation in metropolitan Sydney. 
Despite this we have had both Liberal and Country Party Ministers continuing the overgrowth of Sydney with the redevelopment of the central business district, The Rocks, Woolloomooloo, North Sydney and Kings Cross. And the same is happening in Melbourne. The question arises: How is this Commonwealth Government involved? The fact is that these buildings are being built in the centres of our cities by foreign investment in relation to which the Government will not make figures available. I was able to get the figures as they applied to the big insurance companies. Their investment alone has increased from $144m in 1961 to $825m in 1971. This illustrates the attitude of this Government. It has the power to direct this money through these major insurance companies. It is about time that we decided to start to plan the great cities of our country, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, and to control and plan the growth of these major cities. What is happening in Sydney and Melbourne will happen in other cities as well. First of all we have to plan the cities through planned growth corridor development so that there is a balanced load between the centres. In the cities we have to make sure that the plan of decentralisation is in corridors of development, whether it be from Sydney to Melbourne, from Sydney through Bathurst to Orange or from Sydney to Brisbane. It has to be done in a planned way. We have to listen to the most expert advice in this country and take out of the issue the political gimmickry which the Country Party uses of putting a little here and a little there - very numerous and spread - but which ensures that there is no real efficiency in the growth centre. I ask the House to support the motion. 
I move: 
That the honourable member for Dawson be heard. 
May I say that the honourable member for Dawson is the leader on this subject on this side of the House. 
I want to see trade develop between Australia and New Zealand, i want to see trade develop between Australia and China. Australia and Japan and Australia and the rest of the world. But I am not going to sit here and watch trade develop between countries if it means wholesale unemployment for the Australian work force, Australian factories being bankrupted or Australian resources having to be moved compulsoriiy into areas where they will operate at a disadvantage. Basic to Australian Labor Party policy is the necessity to have a plan of tariff protection which will help industries and people. There has to be a plan for resources, whether those resources be people or the assets they own. There must always be a policy. 
The manufacturers are quite happy with the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement because it obviously means greater profits and benefits to Australia, although we do not know the full details of these. But let us take it a step further. Let us take trade between, say, China and Australia. We want to sell our wheat, wool and other products to China, but if we have to take into Australia in return a flood of low cost commodities which will bankrupt hundreds of thousands of workers in Australia, we on this side of the Parliament would not under any circumstances tolerate it until there was a plan by which these resources could be shifted effectively and profitably as far as the people are concerned, whether they be employee or employer. This is surely fundamental. 
There is a grave difference between the theories of academic economists on tariffs and what we should consider having regard to the welfare of the people. Academic economists can look at tariffs in a cold, hard calculating way and say: 'Take the bounty off this. Take the tariff off this. Move your resources somewhere else'. This is a different criterion from that which the Government has to take, which is to maximise welfare. Economics is only one part of welfare. That is the criterion which this Parliament should always take into account in making decisions about tariffs or in determining monetary or fiscal policy. 
The Government has indicated through its spokesman, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  that ii will take a softer line on tariffs. The  Deputy  Prime Minister made this statement on television on 7th February 1971. What is meant by this softer line on tariffs? We have not heard very much about this. We all know that an increase in tariffs increases the prices of basic commodities in Australia and the price of inputs to export industries, and can have a deleterious effect on the export of these commodities. This is where we have the conflict between the Liberal Party and the Country Party.. This is why it is essential that there be intelligent policies with respect to tariff evaluation. 
The New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement contains a great list of articles commencing with live horses, asses, mules and ninnies. There should be an effective and responsible evaluation to see how this trade agreement has worked from the point of view of Australia and from the point of view of New Zealand, with particular reference to the resources of Australia - land, labour, capital and management. This is what the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has said we have to take into account in making any decision. The Tariff Board just does not have the resources which it should have to give the Parliament full details of the ramifications and the consequences of any decision which it makes. In the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement there is a clause which provides that third countries, whether they be Territories of Australia or New Zealand or countries which are independent of New Zealand and Australia, may come into the Agreement. lt could be an experiment to study how this rakes place. 
These are the things which we on this side of the Parliament keep hammering. We will not be a party to agreements or decisions which will cause unemployment of resources in Australia, whether they be in the primary, secondary or tertiary industries. There must be ancilliary policies. Every decision which the Government makes on a tariff has to be thought out clearly. The Government has to consider not only the direct but also the indirect effect it will have on other industries. If it causes unemployment  of  resources or unemployment of workers, implementation of that decision has to be stopped until there is a compromise in the sense that unemployed resources can be moved effectively and to the satisfaction of the people involved, not as a result of a decision out of the blue to reduce a tariff based on the cold, economic arguments of the Tariff Board, without any consideration of the consequential effect on the employment sector. 
The basic problem as I see it is that there is a difference between an established industry in which the resources are established  and  which has an infrastructure built round it - there might be communities, cities  or towns,  and any decision of a major nature can affect the whole economic life of that community - and an infant industry, a new industry starring up under the umbrella of protection. This is where 1 believe the honourable member for Wakefield and we on this side of the Parliament are in unison. We agree on the need for protection for a new undertaking starting up under an umbrella of protection, which means more fragmentation of that industry. But the Government has to guard against encouraging a multiplicity of industries which increase the cost of production but do not necessarily increase wages or profits - from whichever side one looks at it - of the people concerned. The Government has  to  avoid the establishment of new industries which will not add to the net national productivity. 
In conclusion, I want to make it quite clear that the Australian Labor Party is a protectionist party. We believe in the protection of primary industry, and secondary industry and its effect on tertiary industry. But we believe in protection based on intelligent planning and intelligent economics as applied to the Parliament or the nation, not to the academic textbooks, which completely ignore the welfare and the economic lives of people. We in this Parliament cannot do that. W.' have to think of the economic lives of people, not just as a resource that can be moved from point A to point B. Therefore the Australian Labor Party believes in progressive economic policies of which the underlying and significant factor is planning - planning of resources and planning of decisions. I regret to say that planning' is a word tha; is foreign ;o this Government. This Government believe-, in ad hoc decisions, unco-ordinated decisions or stop-go policies. Unless we can get down to proper planning in tariffs we will have all sorts of problems again in the future. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament asembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10, 1948, Australia signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person- languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all States, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care program to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient In general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for lowrental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. I preface it by saying that prior to Christmas I asked the Government to take action to control foreign investment and major insurance companies in respect of speculative investment in the over-building of the central business districts of our capital cities, in particular Sydney and Melbourne. In his letter to me of 13th December 1 971 the Prime Minister said that most of this type of foreign investment is confidential but that insurance companies increased this type of investment from 6.6 per cent of their statutory reserve funds in 1961 to 14.1 per cent in 1971. I ask: Is the Prime Minister aware that the increase, in money terms, was from $144m in 1961 to $825m in 1971, an increase of 472 per cent? At the same time the increase in housing was only 44 per cent. 
I do not wish to delay the House. All I want to say in this regard is that I hope this matter will not be treated on strictly Party lines. This is a very important fundamental issue. I have had my differences with honourable members on the other side of. the House but I felt the personal involvement of the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  when he asked his question this morning and I felt how sincere and deeply moved he was. The regrettable thing is that although the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon) answered the first part of the question correctly he then - of course, he is such a brilliant man at leading not only his own Party but also the nation to doom - had to go on and try to score off the Opposition. I am asking all honourable members to give thought to this. We should not play the cheap Party politics of moving an amendment and trying to score from it. This is not facing up to the real issue. The real issue raised by the Leader of the Opposition (Mr Whitlam)  was quite clear and specific. It is a matter which should be cleared up in this Parliament, and this Parliament should clearly repudiate this foolish and stupid statement if it was made or published. We want to expunge it completely from the record books and - I say this to the Prime Minister - it is about time we stopped manoeuvring and cleared the deck because there should be no reference or inference in the amendment moved by the Prime Minister that anybody in this Parliament has any anti-Semitic feelings whatever. That is all I am asking - that every honourable member in this House examine his position. If the motion that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition warrants support there should not be any division on Party lines. It should be dealt with on its merits and I hope that honourable members vote on the original proposition accordingly. 

 Mr Whitlam  Yes. 
The matter of public importance before the House is a personal attack on the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  About  2  weeks ago a similar personal attack was made on the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Of course these are the tactics of the Government. This Government is in chaos. It is in shambles. It is in such a panic that last night it brought forward to this Parliament a mini-budget because it feels it is losing the reins of government. Consequently honourable members opposite have made personal attacks on members on this side of the House. I bring up the question of personalities because it is the Government side that is always attacking personalities. Who asks: 'Why does the Australian Labor Party attack on personalities and not on policies?' The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  are the  2  major critics of the Labor Party for attacking so-called personalities and not policies.  1  have been in this House for nearly 14 years. I think I have been a man of policy and not a man of personalities. I certainly have tried to be a man of policy. In all my public life, during my Army service or at any other time I have never known a man like the honourable member for Lalor. He is the most honest, democratic, sincere and capable man that I have ever known. If there is any man for whom I would give my life it is the honourable member for Lalor. 
I have the utmost respect for my Leader- 
There is no 'but' about it. We on this side of the House are all behind and supporting our Leader. I am proud of the action and policy of my Leader as well. So let us be clear about that. The honourable member for Lalor has been accused of following the Moscow line. Let us analyse that. On 12th August 1969 the former honourable member for Forrest,  Mr Freeth,  who was then the Minister for Foreign Affairs made his statement about the change in Government foreign policy. Let me remind the gentlemen on the Government side that because of their fears of the downward thrust of China they wanted new friends. They knew that Britain had been withdrawing from Malaysia and that the United States was withdrawing from South East Asia and so they wanted to create a new alliance. They put out feelers for a regional arrangement with the Soviet Union. The honourable member for Lalor was one of the first members of this House and one of the first people to attack that policy. He said we should not be the followers of big powers, whether it be the Soviet Union, the United States or Great Britain. He said that we have our own right to defend this country. We have to be an independent country. That was in keeping with his whole record. 
When Vietnam was a hopeless fight and when honourable members on our side of the House had not seen the injustice of the war in Vietnam, the honourable member for Lalor travelled the length and breadth of this country and said: This is where I stand; if I am wrong, I will take the conse quences one way or the other." In many cases he went beyond Labor policy, but he showed courage of his convictions as he has today. He is a man who has always been against violence. The honourable member for Lalor has been against violence in the streets of Melbourne and in the streets of Sydney, and he is against violence in Vietnam. Let me remind the House of what  Mr Justice  Bright of the South Australian Supreme Court said as reported on page 58 of the Royal Commission 1970 Report on the September Moratorium Demonstration in South Australia.  Mr Justice  Bright said: 
Melbourne is far bigger and more crowded than Adelaide: the group in Melbourne was at least 10 times as big. But  Dr Cairns,  its leader, bad never allowed the thread of communication between himself and the police to snap. There was a mutual respect and confidence between him and the senior police officers. 
I repeat the words: There was a mutual respect and confidence between him and the senior police officers'.  Mr Justice  Bright continued: 
So when, alongside William Street, Melbourne,  a  cordon of policemen stood on the roadway up which the demonstrators intended to march, a senior police officer advanced towards the front of the group and asked to see its leader. A conversation ensued between that police officer and  Dr Cairns,  and the latter, heedless of the jeers of a few radicals, deflected the course of his march and avoided a physical confrontation. He did this not because he thought that by doing so he would lessen congestion in the streets but because by doing so he prevented the risk of a physical clash on a large scale between demonstrators and police, 2  groups of people for whom he had regard. 
That is the honourable member for Lalor. I have been with him at large demonstrations. He is a rational, cool man, always against violence.  His  whole life is dedicated to opposition to violence, and it is about time that this Parliament and this country accepted Jim Cairns for what he is, because he is a courageous man. He is one of the great men who has been in this Parliament. The history books will prove that he was the man who led the struggle and led Australians against involvement in Vietnam. He was the man who told the people of Australia of the dark history that we were writing in our history books of our involvement in Vietnam. 
Some persons have made the accusations about certain other persons that they were getting on the bandwagon but, in fact, we are grateful for every person who finds his way and who accepts that we Australians do have a guilt in respect to Vietnam. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  andthe Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  are so rudely talking at the table. Why has not anybody on theirside of politics, whether it be in this House, in other parliaments or in Liberal governments throughout Australia, examined their guilt and the crimes that they have supported in Vietnam? In the United States of America - I could talk about some Americans with great pride - Republicans and Democrats alike have had the courage to stand up against the war in Vietnam and against their own Government. Republicans and Democrats alike have criticised their Government for the crimes that have been committed in Vietnam. They have examined their guilt. But not one Australian Government supporter, with the exception, God bless his soul, of  Senator Hannaford  who left the Party has ever done this. The Government claims never to have made any mistakes, and that its monolithic policy and commitment to dogma are never wrong. The whole point is that the Government has involved itself in the crimes in Vietnam and has never admitted that there could have been a mistake. It is too monolithic. The Government has supported the use of napalm. More bombs were dropped on Vietnam than were exploded on the whole of Europe in the Second World War. This is the crime; this is the smugness of this Government. The Government must pay for its crimes. This Government's actions are a part of history and it will have to pay. The record of the honourable member for Lalor is clear. He is an honest man and is proud of his position. I am proud of his stand. This rabble, this crumbling Government, will have to pay its debt to society. 
I direct my question to  the Prime Minister. Will the right honourable gentleman give an undertaking that he will withdraw immediately all Australian military personnel from Vietnam, particularly those personnel known as military advisers? Will he do this to prevent any further loss of Australian lives in the Vietnam conflict? 
My question relates to activities of the Treasury and to housing and therefore I am directing it to the Prime Minister. I preface my question by stating that the average cost of land and a dwelling throughout Australia last year was approximately $15,000; in fact, in Sydney it was $20,000. The Prime Minister would be aware that interest rates have not been reduced on housing loans by savings banks since they were increased in April 1970. He would also be aware that the maximum first mortgage housing loan by savings banks is $9,000. Will the honourable gentleman agree that interest rates with savings banks are too high and that first mortgage loans are too small? Will he take action to reduce interest rates on housing loans and increase first mortgage loans by savings banks? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say what sum has been invested by overseas investors in office buildings in the central business district of each capital city in each of the last S years. 
Can he also say what is the major source of that investment. 
At the outset I wish to commend the Government for its decision to participate in the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in Stockholm early in June of this year. It is one of the most important world conferences held for many years. It may be the beginning of an attempt to try and solve the problems confronting mankind in regard to the rape of resources and population. But I believe it is wrong that the Government has not given consideration to allowing a representative of the alternative government of this country to attend that 
Conference. I think the Government should permit a representative of the Opposition to attend that important Conference. I criticise the Government for not permitting those 2 members of the Parliament the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  and  Senator Keeffe  who will be attending a parliamentary world conference on the environment in Vienna in late June to attend the Conference on the environment in Stockholm early in June. That seems to me to be a very short sighted view on the part of the Government. 
Quite frankly, I think that there has been some window dressing by the Government in regard to the environment. We have just heard a Minister who is twenty seventh in seniority of the 27 Ministers in the Ministry make a statement on the environment. It seems to me that the Government has given very late and very low priority to this matter. However, I am glad that the Government has now officially recognised the environment. The statement by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  contains a few items which are very welcome but which are buried in a wealth of meaningless cliches. The most depressing thing about the Minister's statement, however, is that it appears as if the Commonwealth Government has turned its back on accepting full responsibility in this field. It has sold out to the rights of the States. Certainly the States have a great deal to say on the subject. So they should. So should local government. However, the leader in the field must be the Commonwealth Government. 
The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, which is to be held in Stockholm in a few days, dramatises the fact that the problems of the environment are global problems and Australia, as a part of the world, has to share its responsibility in this respect. Even though representatives of the States will be going to this Conference in Stockholm it is the Commonwealth which will in the main represent Australia in the world environmental stage. It must be the Commonwealth which also leads the way at home. The Commonwealth must not opt out of the situation by claiming constitutional limitations. We are now in the 1970s and we are experiencing problems which are characteristic of the last third of the twentieth century. We should not allow a late nineteenth century constitution prevent us from facing the issues now and from facing them squarely. 
The Government has at last recognised that environmental issues do exist, although depressingly it still emphasises only the pollution control aspect. The environment involves more than pollution control. But, even in terms of pollution control, the delinquency of the Government has been great. On 10th September 1969 the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution tabled its report. Among the recommendations contained in that report was a recommendation that the Commonwealth Government should co-ordinate State and Commonwealth action on air pollution, undertake research in the area and institute tax relief measures to encourage the introduction of air pollution control equipment. On 10th June 1970 - almost 2 years ago - the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution tabled its report in which it recommended, among other things, that Australia should adopt, firstly, a national policy - I stress the words 'a national policy'. The Committee was under the chairmanship of  Senator Davidson.  He is today as much in favour of a national policy as anybody in the Opposition. In regard to its recommendation that Australia should adopt a national policy the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution said: 
Australia should adopt a national approach to the management of its water resources which sets out acceptable standards, co-ordinates the aims and aspirations of State and local government authorities, and creates the machinery to achieve them in balance with other national goals such as those for growth and development. 
The Committee recommended, secondly, that Australia should adopt a national body. In that regard it said that the Commonwealth should take urgent action to establish a national water commission, which should formulate a national policy on water resources management, assess water resources and quality, and programme the conservation and orderly development of water resources. The Minister's statement acknowledges the fact that the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution and the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution reported but it does not indicate that any action is planned on their recommendations. I wonder when the 
Government is going to take some action. These recommendations were put forward about 2 years ago. When is the Government going to take action to implement the recommendations of committees which were comprised of a majority of Government supporters? The Water Pollution Committee said that the Government should take national responsibility; yet no action has been taken by the Government. 
Still unanswered on the notice paper is a question asked on 17th August last year by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. That question reads: 
What action has been taken on the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution (which reported on 10th September 1969) since the former Prime Minister's answer on 12th June 1970. 
What steps have been taken to remedy the lack of cohesion and direction in the Commonwealth's administration of water pollution, on which the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution reported on 10 June 1970. 
What has been the (a) date and (b) outcome of correspondence between the Commonwealth and States concerning the National Advisory Council on the Environment since the former Prime Minister's answer on 24 February 1971. 
Another question asked by the Leader of the Opposition of the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  aims at trying to pry out of the Government the composition and meeting dates of the interdepartmental working party on the environment since 25th November 1970. There is at present no way in which that working party's work and worth can be examined or whether the competence of the membership can be assessed. In other words, there is no way of assessing whether the interdepartmental working party on the environment is of any real use or is just a piece of window dressing. 
With the exception of salinity and the sometimes serious pollution from mine tailings in the interior rivers of the mainland States and Tasmania the major water pollution problems in Australia are within estuarine areas. It is there that the impact of industrialisation, land filling, tourist development, power generation and other activities of man is greatest. Already in certain areas - such as Cockburn Sound, where the vital sea grass community which stabilises the sandy bottom of the Sound is dying from pollution, and Botany Bay, where the State Government of New South Wales still pretends that land filling and industrial and port development are still compatible with oyster farming - the damage is possibly beyond repair. The land filling of estuaries in Queensland for tourist development is having a profound environmental impact on the nearby marine ecosystem, although we barely have any knowledge of the impact. In addition a nickel refinery is planned near Townsville in Queensland which will have a significant impact on the marine environment. That refinery will be very close to the Commonwealth funded Australian Institute of Marine Science. The Queensland Government did not have the grace even to inform the Interim Council of the Institute of its plans in regard to the Greenvale nickel project. When the Continental Shelf and Territorial Sea Bill is enacted we will have some clarification of these issues. No State government will have the right to do as it likes without an asessment by the Commonwealth. 
We welcome the introduction of environmental impact statements on Commonwealth funded projects. However, this is not enough. The above example clearly shows that State-Commonwealth cooperation will be necessary in projects not using Commonwealth funds if we are to ensure that the delicate marine ecosystem is to survive the various ad hoc activities of man. We also welcome the principle that the polluter must pay. That is the only reasonable way to ensure that the extensive social costs of pollution are correctly allocated. The Government must tax, in the form of pollution tax and taxes to encourage recycling of materials.  President  Nixon has led the way with specific taxes on lead in petrol. There has been no action by this Government to give any indication at all as to whether it would impose a tax on lead in petrol. The Government still allows the pollution of our cities. Of the air pollution in our cities 60 per cent is caused by the emission from the exhausts of motor cars.  President  Nixon has forecast an emission tax of 15c per lb on sulphur dioxide. In the industrial area near Parramatta in the western suburbs of Sydney, which is one of the worst affected areas in metropolitan Sydney, at least 100 days a year there is an airshed, a draught of air, coming down from the mountains in the west - 300 feet to 400 feet deep with 17 miles of airdraught - which brings down sulphur dioxide and other emissions from factories in that area and creates a smog over Sydney and the harbour. One factory alone emits 30 tons to 35 tons of sulphur dioxide every day. If the 15c per lb tax that has been forecast by  President  Nixon were to be levied, that company alone would have to pay in excess of 310,000 a day. But no action has been taken and no leadership has been given by the Commonwealth Government in this country. 
The polluter must pay, but he must not be able to pass all his new costs on to the public. He must bear some of the extra load himself. Differential taxation on pollution, which is one way of ensuring that the polluter pays, can also be used to achieve other desirable social goals such as decentralisation. What has the Government done about decentralisation in the 23 years it has been in office? It is only window dressing to say that we must have decentralisation. The Government has been in power for 23 years and has taken no action whatever on decentralisation. Because of its taxation powers and because of the recent High Court decision in the concrete pipes case, the Commonwealth has a large amount of power to ensure that industry acts in the overall social interest. It is about time the Government showed some leadership in this area. 
We welcome the introduction of a land advisory council which will recommend to the Minister suitable policies on land use in Commonwealth territories. Again, however, land use in the States often has significant national interest. The Kosciusko State Park in New South Wales is of benefit to all Australians. A good Commonwealth environmental policy would ensure that Commonwealth-State consultations would take place on land use in the States. Again, the Commonwealth should show leadership and begin the task of joining with the States to build a national policy on land use. This includes land use for urban areas, agriculture and forestry. May I remind the Minister that in the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill 1972 which is before the House there is not one mention of consideration of environmental matters. 
The hardwood forests are being destroyed and softwood forests are being planted. The fauna which once resided in those forests will not reside in forests of exotic softwoods from the northern hemisphere. The land use policy should include also national parks and mining. The Government's move is just not big enough. All this adds up to a shambles. All parts of the environment - airsheds, watersheds and land - have certain capacities to stand use and abuse. In using them we must ensure that we are not overloading and abusing them and causing irreversible damage. 
The Government clearly feels that these problems are State matters. We on this side of the House question the Government's interpretation in this matter. Additionally, because it has enacted virtually no legislation to cover its own territories, the Government obviously feels that citizens living in these territories have no environmental rights. (Extension of time granted.) Leaving the decisions to the States means that each goes off in a different direction. The result win be the development of 'polluters' havens' if we are not very careful. A State will lower its resistance to pollution in order to attract industry. This has happened in other countries. If we do not have universal control throughout the nation, companies will bargain with the States, as they have done concerning foreign investment. We need to have national control over environmental matters. Even though the Government shows it is concerned about this possibility, nothing in the Minister's statement indicates that the Government plans to do anything about it. 
The Government has sold out to the motor industry in controlling emissions from motor cars. The country has opted for the Economic Commission of Europe standards which control carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons but not oxides of nitrogen. This might be all right in most European cities, but Australian cities have climatic conditions suitable for the creation of photochemical smog. Oxides of nitrogen are essentia] for its formation. Ironically, if decreases in hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide are obtained by altering air-fuel ratios, the oxide of nitrogen emission will go up and increase photochemical smog - not decrease it. All Australian cities have photochemical smog and it is rapidly worsening. We need stricter standards like the more rigorous United States standards which include oxides of nitrogen. We need taxation measures and public investment to encourage people to leave their cars at home when travelling to their employment and use public transport. 
However, an environment department is much more than a pollution control department. The environment embraces a whole host of items such as over-population, urban sprawl, litter, dirty air and water, mining, land use planning and flora and fauna conservation. It is not something simple such as trade, defence or education. It is a whole umbrella of concerns which have as their common denominator the negative impact on a system with finite limits of man-generated growth which ignores the finite size of that system. The same principles apply at the global level as apply at every sub-system level down to the simple house. We must be concerned with a whole complex of man, nature, technology and society. It has been at the global level that the triple crises caused by over-population, resource depletion and technology and pollution have forced us to begin to rethink our entire attitude to our present life style. Because the environment is such a complex interaction of man, nature, technology and society we cannot just set up a bureaucracy and call it the Department of the Environment and expect it to solve our problems. The Commonwealth Department of the Environment has a staff of 8 clerks one is an Engineer the remainder is without any skilled scientists or men of technology in that field. We can see this in New South Wales where 4 departments - the Department of Health, the Department of Local Government, the Department of Transport and the Department of Environmental Control - are fighting each other about who has the right to monitor and control motor vehicle emissions and to manage the environment as a whole. All decisions by government, by private companies and by individuals have environmental impact. What we must do is design a new model which ensures that when any decision is made it is an environmentally wise one. This will mean that we might have to  change quite drastically some of our present concepts of government departments. We can attain such a goal if we first set up proper social and environmental goals to keep us on course. 
I would ask permission to have included in Hansard part of a speech that I made at the Housing Industry Conference in Canberra on 24th April this year. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  which reads:  whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill this House deplores the Government's failure to prepare and publish, in consultation with the States, a national plan for (a) the full use of the development of Australia's forest resources and (b) the conservation of the existing hardwood forests and associated flora and fauna in relation to softwood plantings. 
This Bill seeks to help the States establish extensive softwood plantations. About $21m over the next 5 years will be made available to the States by way of loans to enable softwood plantings at the rate of about 75,000 acres annually. The loans will be interest free for the first 10 years. With the exception of the hoop pine plantations in Queensland and the northern 
Cyprus pines in the Northern Territory these softwoods will be almost exclusively true pines. The Monterey pine or pinus radiata, the slash pine or pinus elleotti and the maritime pine or pinus pinaster are all exotic species. This Bill, from the environmental point of view, is highly irresponsible. Last week the Minister for the Enviornment  (Mr Howson)  when making a statement said that his Department would examine the environmental aspects of all legislation before being passed through this Parliament. There has been no consideration of the environment in this legislation. In terms of the economics of growing softwod at home and in terms of Australia's trade with other countries, particularly those in the southwest Pacific region, the Bill is highly questionable. It represents a classic case of national development designed and financed on the narrowest of economic considerations and based on very speculative future projections of Australia's population and per capita consumption of wood. The Bill contains not one word about the large environmental impact of the policies contained in it. Unlike the afforestation projects in most other countries, pine plantations in Australia in the main are being established on Crown lands already occupied by native hardwood forests. In Melbourne on 7th September 1971,  Dr R.  F. Dusman, senior ecologist of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, stated: 
I don't like to criticise foresters because they are doing a better job than most others. Yet it seems slightly mad to see them knocking over the few remaining areas of natural forest to create exotic plantations of pinus radiata and other species. Surely this is the time to set them to work planting up the lands that have been cleared as a result of past misguided policies. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  stated clearly that the responsible department in Tasmania has adopted a progressive policy in planting both softwood and hardwood forests in places where there have been no previous plantings. I am not criticising all the States. In fact Queensland has a particularly good record. New South Wales has a bad record. The present policy is worse than 'slightly mad'. If we need 3 million acres by the year 2000, which the Australian Forestry Council says we need - later I will show that there is a great deal of doubt about that - let us have it, but not by knocking over and burning one of our precious resources, our hardwood forests. Let us plant pine forests on already cleared agricultural land. We are destroying trees such as those on the Boyd Plateau in New 
South Wales to grow more trees of a different kind. I received a telegram today from the Colong Committee representing 170 conservation societies. It reads as follows:   . . seeks amendment of Softwood Agreement Act to (1) generally protect native eucalypt forests from destruction for pine plantations and (2) specifically exclude  Konangaroo  State Forest on Boyd Plateau New South Wales. Plateau is an integral part of Kanangra Boyd National Park and should not be destroyed with Commonwealth funds. We support use of redundant grazing farmlands for plantations. 
That seems a commonsense argument to me. By our present policy we are creating habitats in which our wildlife cannot survive. We are causing major erosion problems. We are growing great forests, under monoculture, which sooner or later, for basic ecological reasons, will become, susceptible to pests and disease. The New Zealanders are growing their softwoods on land which has already been cleared or land which was naturally devoid of trees. If we were doing the same in Australia, plantings of pines would be environmentally responsible. I said earlier that what is being done in Tasmania is environmentally responsible, and the same should be done in New South Wales in particular. The time has come when we must stop blindly saying yea to each proposal of national development which is put before us. Every proposal of national development has environmental consequences, and it is about time we did our sums to measure those consequences. In some cases the environmental damage is so great that the whole proposal becomes very questionable. The Australian Forestry Council has not given one moment of consideration to these consequences. 
A sound environmental policy would ensure that with the passage of this legislation the loans will be used primarily for buying up farm land first. A sound environmental policy would ensure that wood demand was reasonable and not excessive; for example, that packaging was minimised rather than maximised. A sound environmental policy would tolerate the permanent alteration of natural ecosystems only after much thought about the very great ecological consequences. A sound environmental policy would see that taxation deductions were no longer given for further land clearing on private land but be given for re afforestation of already cleared land. Many graziers would welcome the opportunity to use their holdings for silviculture as a means of staying on the land. There are some problems associated with planting trees on cleared land. The Government would have to finance, up to 40 years ahead, the purchase of such land to enable the establishment of one complete rotation on adjacent land areas. Also, the land would have to be managed to prevent grass from competing with pines in the first couple of years. However, these costs would be minute compared with the tremendous cost to the Australian environment of the present programme. 
Apart from the obvious conservation issues, there are several more outrageous aspects of the present policy. The value of the hardwood timber bulldozed and burned is assessed at zero, but in fact, it costs a considerable amount to destroy. In 40 years' time when the pines mature apparently they will have some value, for the belief is that a timber industry will locate itself nearby, but in 40 years' time hardwood timber on the same site might have equal value. The value of the Crown land used is set at an artificially low level because it does not have to be purchased on the open market. Unfortunately, at present, only on Crown lands do the various forestry authorities have the guarantee that they need of land for future plantings, lt is worth noting in passing that establishment of a timber industry in particular areas on cleared land can have additional economic benefits. Timber production is a greater employer of rural labour than is grazing, and the long growing times ensure longterm stability. The effect of the pine plantations on the economy of the Mount Gambier area of South Australia is an excellent example of good land-use planning for previously cleared land. 
This Bill is not only environmentally irresponsible, it is also economically bad. Its basic value seems to be national security. The Bill will also exclude considerable trade with other countries. The object of the measure is to have  3  million acres of softwood plantations in Australia by the year 2000. This is based on the assumption that by that time Australia will have to be almost self-sufficient in softwoods, with the exception of certain timbers such as  Oregon. 
The projection of population upon which this goal of 3 million acres is based is much too high. It assumes a population of 21 million in the year 2000, and 24 million in the year 2010. In other words, it assumes the existing degree of fertility and virtually no change in our migration intake. These assumptions are shown in the fifth report on the New Zealand Australia Free Trade Agreement in regard to timber resources, which was released in May 1970. However, if one looks at Australia's population in the year 2000 and beyond, one sees that it will be 20 million at the most, and most likely 19 million. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table on population projections for Australia to the year 2000. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="078131197205305_42_2.jpg"></graphic>

One notes from the first column of the table that assuming an average annual growth rate between 1975 and the year 2000 of 1.796 per cent, and net migration at the 1966-70 level of 88,300 per annum, by the year 2000 we will have a population of more than 21 million. I emphasise, it is net migration. If the net migration were only 50,000 per annum, and the average annual growth rate were 1.547 per cent, the population by the year 2000 would be about 19 million. If the net migration were 50,000 per annum and there were a reduction of 10 per cent in fertility, with an average annual growth rate of 1.360 per cent, the population would be 18 million. If there were no net migration gain and a 10 per cent fertility reduction with an average annual growth rate of 0.982 per cent, the population would be nearly 17 million in the year 2000. I believe that in the coming years there must be a complete re-examination of our population position. This country cannot continue to bring in migrants as it has been doing. It cannot continue to develop in the same way with a growth rate of 2 per cent. We need a growth rate near 1 per cent: we do not need and cannot cope with a growth rate of 2 per cent. 
The pine planting programme in new areas looks up to 80 years ahead because of the 40 years taken for maturity of the first trees, and a further 40 years to establish a full rotation. The entire plantation, therefore, is aimed at wood needs in about the year 2040, not in the year 2000, as the pines will barely all be planted 'by the year 2000. If, for good reasons, a clover pasture were planted between pine crops - to restore fertility - for 10 years, the planting would be over 90 years, equivalent to planting for now back to 1882. We must look at our population trends in the future, for they influence not only total consumption, but also per capita wood demand. A rapidly growing population needs more new houses and thereby uses more wood than a stabilised population, which needs only the replacement of houses or the building of new houses at a slower rate. If our population were stable, we would have to build fewer homes than we do at present. 
It would appear to me that there is considerable doubt whether the Bill in its present form is in the public interest on both environment and economic grounds. It is probable also that the policy is based upon erroneously high projections of population per capita wood consumption. 1 submit that we must investigate carefully what are the basic values of the present policy, and ask whether they are still relevant; what will Australian's population be in the next 50 to 100 years and how fast, if at all, will it grow; what is the likely regional production of softwood and production in the world generally; how can hardwood forests be better utilised and managed; what are the potential markets for Australian hardwoods, and how can the proportion of hardwood used in paper and other products be increased? In Japan manufacturers are using 50 per cent hardwood in paper and other production; in this country we use only 20 per cent. It seems to me that we should start making an examination of that aspect. 
We must inquire as to what taxation and financial policies can be used to prevent further forest clearing and encourage reafforestation on private land; what are the implications in terms of pest infestation and disease of present planting policies, and what is the potential in Australia for expanded forestry in terms of rural reconstruction? We must ask what are the implications for the conservation of flora and fauna, water catchments, conservation of soil in respect of present policies; what basic environment guidelines in terms of forestry policy should be laid down to ensure the wisest management of the Australian environment? These are important questions. We must know the answers if we arc to plan sound policies for the protection and productivity of Australia's natural resources. This Bill does not deal with these questions. It is on these bases, planning and the environment aspect, that the Opposition has moved its amendment. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. During question time the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  attributed words to me which I said were false. Even after my drawing his attention to the fact that they were false he continued to make further accusations. I point out that standing order 76 provides that all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. I repeat that the words attributed to me by the Minister during question time were false, lt is regrettable that the Minister may use question time in this House to get down to gutter politics because of his precarious position in retaining his seat. 
He also said that the words that were attributed to me were unAustralian. My record is well known as an Australian and as a member of the human race. Unlike that of the Minister he is a sectarian hater. 
He is a sectarian hater. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, 1 bow to your decision. I only wish to say that the words attributed to me by the Minister during question time were false, and even though I drew his attention to that fact he continued to contravene standing order 76. 
 I do not want to over emotionalise the aspect of the fallout from the French nuclear tests but I want to draw to the attention of the House some facts which have been stated by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  in his statement. He said that there are 2 bodies which will deal with aspects of nuclear fallout. The first is the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee. He said that at present this is made up of physicists only. 
There should be members other than physicists as physicists are not really qualified to decide the effects of the level of radiation and work out various ways of dealing with them. There should be also biologists and physiologists on this committee. I think that unless this aspect is dealt with it will not be much good having only physicists on this committee. It would be better if the Government considered this suggestion. The Minister, in his statement, also said: 
In contrast to the operation role of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee, the National Radiation Advisory Committee has a purely advisory function. The latter Committee was established by the Government. . . . 
The statement goes on to say that this Committee, which is made up of biologists, is a biassed committee. There is emphasis on the one hand that these biologists are biassed but there is no suggestion of any bias in the case of the other committee. It seems to me that it would be better, to get balanced representation on these committees. It may be that on the second committee, namely, the National Radiation Advisory Committee, there is some balance but the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee is made up only of physicists. It is my suggestion that there should be not only physicists but also biologists and physiologists on that committee. 
The most recent report available was presented in by the National Radiation Advisory Committee and in referring to that Committee the Minister said: 
In addition, the Committee has, from time to time, received in language comprehensible to the lay-reader, the current status of knowledge with respect to biological effects of ionising radiation. The most recent report of the Committee of this nature is that dated October 1965. I am informed by the Committee that it is now undertaking another such review in the light of additional knowledge acquired since that time. 
All I can say is that to allow 7 years to pass before acting showed little concern by the Government and the authorities concerned. I believe that the reports of these committees should be made more regularly than they have been made. I quote again from what the Minister said: 
On the basis of experimental animal data, and the limited human data, obtained at high doses, international and national bodies have recommended standards for protecting persons against the effects which might arise from sources of ionising radiation. They have considered it prudent to make the working assumption that even down to the lowest radiation dose, the risk of producing particular biological effects (e.g. cancer or hereditary effects) in humans is directly proportional to dose, without a minimum or threshhold dose at which no effect occurs. 
The fact is that the French do not accept this proposition. My colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  during the parliamentary recess, was in France where he had discussions for over 2 hours with the French authorities on this one aspect. He tried to pursue it to get them to agree that there is a possibility of such a threat. I would like to know what action the Government proposes to take in regard to these facts which the Minister has presented in this House. In his statement the Minister referred to such assumptions as 'cautious* and 'conservative'. If he thinks they are cautious and conservative I would like to know what discussions have occurred between the Australian Government and the French Government to ascertain whether the French accept these findings or not. If the Government has had discussions, what are the findings? We are entitled to know the findings and also what discussions there have been between the 2 governments. Dealing with fallout I quote again from the Minister's statement:   the total external radiation dose from fallout deposited on the ground from the 1971 French nuclear tests was, when  reduction  factors due to shielding are applied,  in all  cases less than 0.7 millirad. 
This referred only to the test on the ground. What was the fallout in the air? Have there been any tests in this regard and if so what are the findings? What about fallout in water falling as rain onto grass which is eaten by cows which, in due course, provide milk? The statement gives no details of the increase in radioactivity in water, grass or milk. An examination of these aspects by other scientists in South Australia in 1971 showed that radioactivity was found to be 550 or 806 picocuries a litre against an assumed safe level of 1,000 and a normal level of 50. This figure of 806 may be a safe level to assume for the consumption of only a litre of water but what happens if a person consumes more than a litre or even more than 2 litres? Again, I am not trying to be emotional about this aspect but there are eminent scientists in Australia who are greatly concerned about this aspect. In South Australia water measurements were taken in the same year as the previous French tests. 
There were 6 unexplained cases of babies born with cancer, leukaemia or limb deformities. 
The cynical Minister says that there are always babies like that. We want scientific evidence. 
The Minister can rise and make a personal explanation if he feels that I have misquoted him. I do not want to misquote anyone but it is cynical to say that there are always babies born with these disabilities. All I want the Government to do is to take a stand on this question. First, it should take a moral and political stand against the French nuclear tests. It has not taken a moral or a political stand against the holding of the French tests. This Government has never resisted the holding of the tests. Never at any time has it given any leadership in this matter. 
It has not given any leadership. I spoke with the Minister for the Environment on a radio programme when he was in Stockholm. We know that when the New Zealand Government placed its resolution before the Stockholm conference the Minister for the Environment, who is now sitting at the table who represented the Australian Government opposed the New Zealand Government's proposition. It was only because there was concern among the people in Australia about the negative attitude of the Australian Government's spokesman in Stockholm, that the Australian Government changed its mind and decided to vote. We have to examine the reason for the negative attitude of the Australian Government. It is because this Government wants to co-operate with nuclear powers and to work with them in the production of nuclear bombs; there is a bomb lobby in Australia. That is what we have to examine. There is a bomb lobby in Australia. It is political; it is industrial; it is academic. Australia has taken no action on this matter. In fact I believe that this Government is involved in a nuclear conspiracy and that it believes there is some way by which Australia could have nuclear weapons. 
We need leadership in this country to ensure that in this part of the world we are one of the leading nations, if not the leading nation. It is about time that this Government gave leadership particularly by diplomatic communications linking us with those South American countries which border the Pacific and those other nations in the south west Pacific. To achieve diplomatic leadership we should take diplomatic action against France. If diplomatic action does not prevent the holding of these tests we should impose sanctions to make sure that the French Government heeds the people who live in this part of the world. We should tell that Government: 'If you want to test your weapons, test them in the Mediterranean area which is closer to your own country.' 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and Minister-in-charge of Tourist Activities. I preface my question by saying that in the last sessional period the Minister made a statement on behalf of the Government. The Minister said: 
The Government has decided to introduce a system of impact statements designed to protect the environment. 
Will these impact statements be public documents, as is the case in the United States of America, so that the Australian people and organisations will have an opportunity to examine them before legislation is discussed by Parliament? 
This Budget is an act of desperate men. 'It is better that we spend the money than Labor under Whitlam' sums up the mentality of the desperate group of men who framed this Budget. One has to recognise that because this Government is desperate there are within the Budget some steps towards progress. I will not deny that. To say that the 10 per cent reduction in income tax on lower and middle incomes is not a step in the right direction is wrong. My criticism is that the reduction was not equitable and that people on lower incomes should have received far in excess of the average reduction of 10 per cent and those in the middle income bracket should have received a percentage reduction far in excess of that given to those on higher incomes. In money terms those on high incomes will receive the greatest benefit, and they do not need the assistance. 
There has been an increase of $2 in certain pensions. I will support any increases given to pensioners by any government at any time, but it cannot truthfully be said that the increase granted in the Budget was a great handout. I know that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will follow me in this debate. If he wants to examine the figures he will see that in 1950- 51 the single pension was $5 and average weekly earnings were $23.20. So the single pension was 21.6 per cent of average weekly earnings Today, when average weekly earnings are about $101, the single pension is $20 or 19.7 per cent of average weekly earnings. So, the pension as a percentage of average weekly earnings is less than what it was 23 years ago. The pension for a married couple, as a percentage of average weekly earnings, in 1950-51 was 21.6 per cent. It is only 17 per cent now. I am grateful that this Government could at least see fit to make the handout it has made on this occasion to the pensioners, who need  it  badly. 
The proposed abolition of the means test is, to some extent, a bribe offered by the Government. It is now promising to do in 3 years something it could not do in 23 years. All honourable members know that action in regard to the means test has been long overdue, but many people who are on superannuation pensions and have been paying into retirement benefit funds are deprived of the benefit of receiving the age pension. I repeat that the means test  h  now to be abolished in 3 years when it could not be abolished in 23 years. This will eat the inside out of our Federal priorities. All members of Parliament must recognise this point. I recognise it. I know what the policy of my party is, and of course we will have to judge our priorities accordingly. 
I ask all honourable members in the House - 1 do not care on what side of the House they sit - or any member of the general public who examines this Budget: Where does it contain any mention of the environment, the problem of controlling urban land prices, the problem of housing in both the public and private sectors, the real problems of urban transport, the problems of trying to control the over-building of the central business districts of our capital cities by major insurance companies and foreign investors and the problem of providing sewerage in our cities, particularly in the cities of Sydney, Melbourne and Perth? In what way is the Government dealing with these matters? What is it doing about the much discussed matter of regional development? What has been said in this Budget about these matters? It is a negative Budget in those aspects. Wc have to give attention to the cities. Eightyfive to 90 per cent of the people of Australia live in the cities. This Budget does not deal with their great social problems. 
I wholeheartedly support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  In speaking to this Budget I shall deal with the environmental aspect and the priorities of this Government. The Budget is the product of men who are totally lacking in vision. The Government has decided to place an excise tax on liquefied petroleum gas used for the propulsion of motor vehicles. The excise of 3c per litre is equivalent to 13.6c per gallon. This decision is a cruel blow to the people of the cities of Australia. Motor cars account for at least 60 per cent of all pollution of air in Australian cities. From an environmental point of view, LPG is a blessing to city air, while petroleum is a curse. LPG can lower hydrocarbons by 70 per cent, carbon monoxide by 80 per cent and oxide of nitrogen by 60 per cent, compared with petroleum. The Government has the audacity to suggest that the advantages of LPG, to quote the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  'will be diminished as emission control standards are implemented'. This assumes that 1973 standards will achieve a great reduction in air pollution. They will reduce somewhat the levels of carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons. However, even when they are most effective, they will only result in ambient air standards for carbon monoxide and hydro-carbons in Australian cities equivalent to about the 1966 levels. The United States standards which are to be introduced in 1976 seek a return to the ambient air quality of the early 1940s. 
In addition, the auto emission standards ignore oxide of nitrogen - a key ingredient of photochemical smog which is directly affecting Sydney and Melbourne now. We all know of the smog over Sydney and Melbourne. This is caused to a great extent by the motor car. LPG more than halves the oxide of nitrogen emitted per mile by the motor car. Finally, with LPG no additives are necessary. The most important of those additives is tetraethyl lead. There is now irrefutable evidence accumulating that lead in petrol is a major health hazard. In the United States of America  President  Nixon is taxing it out of petroleum. Why have we not introduced a tax on petroleum with a high lead content? My information is that we are considering setting up at Botany Bay a plant to manufacture tetraethyl lead. 
In Australia we are petroleum poor. This is a field in which the Government lacks a broad plan. We are LPG rich. Recently some very large supplies of gas have been located on the northwest continental shelf of this country. A planned approach to our problem would involve the setting up of gas liquefication plants in the northwest, the transport of LPG to the cities and the conversion of virtually all cars in the cities to LPG. However, this Government just does not have the imagination to conceive such an idea. This budgetary measure indicates how seriously the Government considers the problems of the cities and the environment of Australia. It also indicates that the Government fails to see that everything is interconnected with every other thing. It treats LPG as a separate entity. It ignores the environmental impact of petroleum on city air. It ignores the fact that if LPG powered most of Australia's cars our oil imports would diminish to almost nothing. One wonders whether the decision to impose an excise on LPG used in motor cars, so symbolic of so much lack of imagination, was not made to keep the oil companies happy. 
The Commonwealth Government does not have the capacity to lead. Recently in Canberra on Northbourne Avenue concentrations of carbon monoxide of 55 parts per million were recorded. Canberra is a city with absolutely no dirty industry. The culprit, of course, is the motor car. In Los Angeles, where there is slow-moving, heavy traffic on the freeways, the reading is about the same as in the planned city of Canberra. We need leadership from the Government. It should encourage people in Canberra to use LPG in their cars, not discourage them. For a start, the Commonwealth could set an example by converting government buses and government cars to LPG. 
One wonders about this Government. On 24th May last, speaking on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  said that all Federal action would require an 'environment impact statement' about future legislation. What a sham. If one had been prepared for the decision to remove the tax exemption on LPG this tax surcharge would not be on it today. This tax on LPG indicates that decisions are made in the Treasury and to hell with the environmental consequences. Under Labor this will change. Decisions will be made environmentally-wise' irrespective of who makes them. We will set up the necessary machinery to ensure this. What is more, we will do it without building a huge monolithic environment department and it will not act as a 'big brother' to other departments, the States, the municipalities or private industries. We will work in cooperation with all Australians for a better environment as a whole. When I talk about the environment I include those people who live in cities and whom, I believe should not be strangled by car exhaust or industry emissions. Consequently we need control in this area. 
I now examine some of the problems in regard to spiralling urban land prices. This Government has wiped its hands completely in regard to land. Yet, the Government has said that one of the reasons why it has increased the homes savings grant from $17,500 to $22,250 is rising land costs. What will Labor do in this area? A Labor government will do something positive about urban land costs. It will enter into direct negotiations with the States to acquire large tracts of land. It will do this in 2 ways - by a short term and a long term policy. In co-operation with the State authorities it will acquire land so as to try to alleviate the problem quickly. A Labor government will purchase that land and will be able either to sell or lease it. If the land is sold Labor will make sure that the subdivisions are divided in a way similar to that done in Canberra although electric light wires will be installed underground. Further, a Labor government will make sure that subdivisions are tree planted and landscaped in such a way that aesthetic quality will be derived. Also, it will make sure that if people wish to buy that land they will not be exploited by the fringe banking institutions and have to pay interest rates of 13 per cent. When they acquire the land through the Commonwealth and State authority the interest rate will be about 4 per cent. 
On the other hand, if people want to lease land, all they have to pay is the first year's land rental. The Labor Party's long term policy is that it will acquire large tracts of land on the fringes of Sydney, Melbourne and all the other capital and provincial cities and build planned communities such as we have in Canberra and in Europe, the United States, the United Kingdom and other places where every progressive government is taking some action. These cities will be places of human dignity just as we have in Canberra. If we can build corridors of development such as those in the Woden and Belconnen Valleys in Canberra then this same development can be carried out on the fringes of Sydney and other capital cities. These are the positive things that Labor will do. 
In regard to the public sector of housing, the Labor Party will ensure that it will meet the commitment of public housing and return to the Chifley CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. Labor will make money available to the States to enable them progressively to catch up with the backlog. Already in New South Wales alone 40,000 people are on the lists of the New South Wales Housing Commission for Commission homes. Throughout Australia there are between 90,000 and 100,000 families waiting for public housing. This is the situation we have under the present Government. No real priority is given in this Budget to the private sector of housing. We will ensure that the record amount of money that is now in the savings banks will be loaned to people at reasonable interest rates. A Labor government will ensure that an adequate first mortgage loan will be made for people to cover their commitments. For instance, the average cost of a dwelling plus land in Sydney today is about $20,000. The average price of land is $9,000 and the average price of a dwelling is $11,600. Yet, the maximum first mortgage loan given by the Commonwealth Savings Bank is $9,000. This is despite the fact that there is a record amount of money in the savings banks. A Labor government will, by government action, increase the first mortgage loan from $9,000 to at least $12,000. It will make sure that at least the interest rate will be reduced from 6i per cent to  5i  per cent. 
I agree with the honourable member for Wills. However, a Labor government would reduce the interest rate to 5) per cent, which was the level prior to April 1970. However, it will progressively reduce the interest rates not only of the Commonwealth Savings Bank but of other lending institutions. 
I want to make a few comments on urban transport. This Government has permitted the over-building of the central business districts of our capital cities. There has been a concentration on over-construction of office buildings in the central business district. Consequently, in Melbourne and Sydney- 
The honourable member asked what the Commonwealth has to do with it. Most of the money that has been required to construct these buildings has been provided by insurance companies and foreign investment. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which sets out the selected assets and liabilities in Australia of life assurance statutory funds. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Bury)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="079131197208243_61_0.jpg"></graphic>

To give the House some idea of the amount provided by insurance companies for the construction of office complexes in the centre of cities, the table indicates that at 31st December 1961 $144m was invested in office buildings and as at 31st March 1972, $994m was invested. This represents an increase of 588 per cent. During this time the assets of the insurance companies increased by $2,200m to $6,300m which was an increase of 190 per cent. As I have said, there is an overinvestment and a glut of buildings in the centre of capital cities. The figures on foreign investment are even worse, but these details have been denied me by the Treasurer and Prime Minister. 
The point I make is that people have been forced to use public transport systems to go to work. These transport systems are geared to a peak load. Workers who live on the fringes of the cities are forced to use this transport. In fact, 35 per cent of people who live at Campbelltown in Sydney, which is some 35 miles from the central business district, work in or near the central business district of Sydney. This is bad planning. The Commonwealth Government wants to build a centre at Wooloomooloo which will house  15,000  employees. This will aggravate an already bad situation in Sydney. A Labor government will stop this development. It will build this complex either at Parramatta, Liverpool, Penrith or Campbelltown so that a balanced load on the transport system can be achieved. A Labor government would make money available to the urban railway systems not only of Sydney but of Melbourne. Last week I was in Melbourne and I saw the poor rapid rail transport system which runs to Dandenong;  75  per cent of the rolling stock was acquired before  1928.  No money has been provided in this direction. Of course, the facts are that there has been no planning and no financial help has been given. The Government has the control over insurance companies and foreign investment to stop the over-building of the centre of cities. This trend is destroying our cities and consequently forcing people to pay increased fares to get to work. For instance, the fares in New South Wales increased by  52  per cent to  79  per cent last year alone. 
The Postmaster-General would be aware that the radio programmes AM' and 'PM' of the Australia Broadcasting Commission have the highest rating for listening audiences on radio. Is he aware that 'PM' is now to be restricted to 10 minutes instead of its present 30 minutes? 
Is this in any way related to the pressure placed on the ABC by the Federal Government and its supporters? If not, why is such a popular programme being restricted? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he, in answer to a question without notice on 9th September 1971 (Hansard, page 992), indicate that he disagreed with the statements made publicly by the eminent ecologist, Professor Paul Ehrlich. 
If so, will he say on what authorities he relied to substantiate his answer. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I intervene to make this statement because of my responsibility as the Federal spokesman on urban affairs for my Party. May I commend the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on the important principle that has been set down in this case. The world as a whole is looking at the problem of the motor car in the city. All of us are proud of Canberra and we are proud of the National Capital Development Commission, which has been responsible for the planning of Canberra, but we have to recognise that Canberra is too orientated to the private motor car. Unless we lift the standard of our public transport system we have no chance at all of solving these problems. The Committee has determined to seek a better public transport system. If we are going to have an alternative to the motor car - whether it be in Canberra or in any other capital city - that alternative must be an efficient public transport system. The present public transport system in Canberra is a bus system but the buses do not run frequently enough. If we are to have a public transport system the first principle is frequency of service. Unless we have frequency of service people will not use the buses. In some cases, in the newer outer districts of Canberra people have to wait for up to an hour for a bus.  1  do not want to steal the time of the 
House because the Leader of the House has been kind enough to allow me to make a few comments on this matter, but I think that the principle that this Committee has set down should be looked at in the light of public transport systems in every capital city in Australia. Australia has to move back to some type of public transport system in the cities. Each city has to determine, after scientific analysis, the type of rapid transport system it should have. It is about time that this Commonwealth Government became involved in the development of other cities apart from Canberra. 
I made the comment earlier that the action of the Government in moving this motion was a political gimmick. I suppose I should have said that it was a political bribe. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  in his innocence, said that he knew nothing about this matter. Even if this is so, I have no doubt that he will make great news in the Northern Territory to the effect that it was his influence which prompted the Government to bend and take this action at this time. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory made certain comments in regard to the siting of the proposed power station. I should like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that on 24th May this year the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  stated that, when Commonwealth Government money was involved in anything that could have an environmental impact, an impact statement would be made. A power station is to be built at Tennant Creek and a power station, whether it is small or large, can have an environmental impact. If the power station is to be built in the township, I would like to know the environmental impact it will have on this area. I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  whether any impact statement has been prepared by the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, because Commonwealth money is being used for a project in a Commonwealth Ter ritory. An eleventh hour decision has been made and I would like to know whether an environmental impact statement has been prepared in regard to the siting of this power station in Tennant Creek. 
This Government has issued bribe after bribe in its Budget policy and I have no doubt that this is the first of many such eleventh hour decisions, forecasting what it will do in the future, that this Government will make between now and the election. The Government has been in power for 23 years and I have no doubt that the desperate men on the Government side will now pull everything out of the hat to try .to- 
With all due respect to you,  Mr Speaker,  I know that, in your capacity as a private member, you are the honourable member for Phillip and I know that yours is one of the dangerous scats that could go- 
-I know,  Mr Speaker;  but I was just reminding you that you are on dangerous ground in the electorate of Phillip, and the honourable member for the Northern Territory also is on dangerous ground. 
The fact is that this matter is not even listed on the blue sheet. If I might say so, it has come out of the blue. The honourable member for the Northern Territory said that it came so much out of the blue that even he did not know anything about it. I am pointing out that the Government has moved to refer a project to the Public Works Committee so that it can gain some publicity for a Government supporter who is likely to be defeated in the next general elections. Therefore, I consider the bringing of this proposal before the House at this time to be outright bribery. 
I should like the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  in his reply, to say whether this is just a coincidence; whether or not this second proposal relating to the Northern Territory is a further bribe to try to retain the seat of the Northern Territory for the Government. I think it is a question that we should ask. We are on the eve of an election, and we find that this proposal is being referred to the Public Works Committee in the week prior to a week's parliamentary recess so that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  may go to the Territory and use this for electioneering purposes. Quite frankly, I would like to know how long this proposal Was being considered before it was referred to the Committee. Perhaps some members of the Committee could indicate how long they have been waiting for this proposal. 
by leave - I rise to comment on the report of the very progressive Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. I think there are in this report very important principles which will have a fundamental bearing on the development of cities throughout Australia and on the development of new cities throughout this nation. I deal firstly with the question of the future expansion of the Australian Capital Territory, or of Canberra as we know it. We all recognise and agree - and of course this is the plan of the National Capital Development Commission - that the maximum population of the Australian Capital Territory should be about 500,000 people. We have to determine how that population of 500,000 people will be achieved. 
I am aware that the National Capital Development Commission holds the view that employment opportunities in this area should be diversified and that we should not try to provide employment opportunities only in the Public Service. I point out, as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  did in his comments, that there is no positive policy aimed at attracting commercial and industrial activities to the Australian Capital Territory. The population of Canberra now has reached 150,000 people. It seems to me that now is the time when we should cease increasing the number of public servants in Canberra and try to attract to Canberra industry which is nonpolluting. I am thinking of industries such as the electronics industries, the computerised industries and other industries which need a well educated work force. Probably, on a population basis, people in no other part of Australia are as well educated as are the people in Canberra. I think honourable members will find that a Labor Government will be directing its attention towards this type of development for Canberra. We will restrict the development of the Public Service in Canberra. I believe that under our decentralisation plan new cities will be developed by transferring public servants to those new cities. 
Paragraph 191 of the Committee's report states: 
There is ample evidence in Australia and elsewhere that large cities are uneconomical and if they are avoidable this should be done. 
But that is  c  completely contrary to the policy of the present Government. What is the policy of the present Government? The policy is to develop in the central business district of Melbourne a Commonwealth centre to house 20,000 employees, and to develop in the centre of Sydney at Woolloomooloo a Commonwealth centre to house 15,000 employees. We argue that this development should not proceed in the centre of these big cities; it should take place in other areas as part of an overall decentralisation policy. 
The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, to its great credit, points up the basic principle which is so very vital and important to this Parliament. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  who spoke earlier is responsible for the siting of buildings at Woolloomooloo in Sydney and in the centre of Melbourne. So it is a kind of hotchpotch business. The Government does not seem to know how to plan to govern. Yet, intelligent committees, such as the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory can find the way and give a lead to the Government, and can show the utter stupidity, if I may use the term, of Government planning. 
Another aspect I wish to deal with is the question of fringe development. This matter has been raised in, but I will not quote the section of, the Committee's report. At paragraph 192 it deals with the whole question of the over-development on the fringe of the Australian Capital Territory. Yet, as far back as early 1970 I asked questions on this matter of the then Minister for the Interior, who is now the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  - another Country Party Minister. He is in this new group which is determined to find an eleventh hour decision to pull out of the box on the matter of decentralisation. This group is the troika, comprising the Minister for Trade and Industry, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  who has just spoken, and the former Minister for the Interior, now Minister for Shipping and Transport, which will try to pull out of their Pandora's box a new formula for decentralisation. In early 1970 I asked the then Minister for the Interior: 
Has there been any discussion between the Government . . . 
I am taking about the Federal Government  . . and the State Government of New South Wales for the future growth of Canberra? 
Of course the reply was one word: 'No'. The next question I asked was: 
If so, what proposals have been made by the Commonwealth Government to prevent ribbon development on the highway leading to Canberra? 
My third question was: 
Is it a fact that, unless there is agreement to prevent the ribbon development the future growth of Canberra will be prejudiced? 
The reply was dated 1 2th June. The answer to the first question was 'no' and the answers to the other questions were also no' - not so abruptly, but in a negative form. The Australian Capital Territory Committee has drawn the attention of the House to the fact that some action must be taken about fringe development around Canberra. 
I wish to deal also with the question of the motor car transport system as against public transport systems. We heard, during question time, a question asked of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  dealing with liquid petroleum gas. He asked: What aspects of environmental impact had the government studied before making its decision? The honourable member just did not know. He could not really co-relate what the Minister for the Environment Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  meant by an 'impact statement'. He did not understand, yet a decision had been made. The truth of it all is that basically, even the Treasurer should know economically, Australia is petroleum poor and very wealthy in LPG. Honourable members on this side argue that at least public transport in this area should be using liquid petroleum gas and not petroleum. The Commonwealth should be setting an example. Again, it is significant that the Committee, in paragraph 220 of its report, stated: 
The Committee has observed the high ratio of journeys to work by the private motor car . . . 
In fact, it says 85 per cent-  . . as against those made by public transport. If this situation continues as the workforce grows the peak demands for road space will generate congestion. 
This is the position. Wherever one goes throughout the world this is the evidence which is being produced. The only way to overcome this problem is by an alternative public transport system. Whether we are dealing with this question in Canberra, Sydney or Melbourne, the motor car has become a monster to the cities of Australia and the cities of the world. The only way in which motor cars can be kept out of the cities is to provide, as an alternative, an adequate public transport system. This Government has taken no action at all to introduce a more adequate transport system. 
What does the Government intend to do in Canberra? It will extend the road surface. Paragraph 220 of the Committee's report - I will not quote it in full - points out that at least one-fifth of the developed urban area of Canberra is now taken up by vehicle carriage ways. Many of the people who work at Parliament House are parking their cars illegally in areas adjacent to Parliament House. In many cases they are using open parkland space in which to park their cars because adequate parking facilities are not available here. Why do these people use their motor vehicles? The truth is that the public transport system in Canberra is frightful. Yet this Government continues to make available facilities which encourage the use of the motor car in Canberra City. The development of car parking facilities in Civic Centre is proposed. The cost of these facilities will be very high. What I advocate is that in Canberra the Government should purchase more buses and it should utilise those additional buses even if it is necessary to introduce low fares to keep them fully in use. The Government also should change from petroleum to liquid petroleum gas for use in those buses so that a build up of pollution will not be created in this area. 
-I beg the Minister's pardon? 
All right. 1 appreciate that the time factor is important. The fact is that the Opposition must take opportunities available to it to expose the blindness of this Government. This report does not represent the Government's policy. It is the report of an impartial committee which has examined Government policy. In its examination, the Committee has exposed the inadequate policies of the Government. I hope that the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory deals with future facilities for motor cars. I hope that the proposal to develop additional car parking facilities in Civic Centre at an enormous cost will be refused. It is time that the Government commenced to take some action against the provision of further parking facilities for private motor cars. Instead of assisting to make these facilities more readily available, the Government should make it more difficult for them to be provided. The Government should upgrade the public transport system. Fares should be reduced. It has even been suggested by some people that it might be in the interests of Canberra to make a bus transport service available free of charge at certain hours to enable people to travel to and from work utilising public facilities, until such time as a rapid public transport system, which is lacking in Canberra, is implemented. I believe that these criticisms are constructive and that they should be looked at by the Government and the National Capita) Development Commission. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to raise a point in regard to the motion that these reports be printed. All that appears on the 'Daily Programme', or what is known as the blue sheet, is this statement: 

 Mr Kelly (Chairman - Wakefield) to bring up 3 reports from the Public Works Committee and move for printing. 
I think it is appropriate that the full details of the reports which are to be printed should be spelt out. I know that it can be argued that once they are printed they come back to the Parliament to be discussed. I am aware of that, butI believe that the details on the blue sheet should be more informative in case an honourable member wants to debate a particular matter. For instance, a couple of weeks ago a report was presented to the Parliament on the proposed work at Wooloomooloo. Of course, this is a very important matter which many of us- 
At 5.30 this afternoon I received a copy of the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I was at this time to have addressed a meeting at the Australian National University in connection with the proposed Armco steel works to be constructed at Jervis Bay, which programme has been fostered by this Commonwealth Government and, of course, by the State Government of New South Wales and which will destroy that beautiful area. However, on receiving the Prime Minister's statement I had to meet the challenge of at least trying to put some contribution from this side of the House in support of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlarn).  The statement of the Prime Minister can be well described as an imitation of progress. 
I want to deal with certain aspects of the statement because time does not permit me to deal with it in detail. In his statement the Prime Minister said:   . . the Commonwealth and State governments could directly assist in the growth and development of new centres since they are both large employers. 
Let me deal with this Government's record and policy in regard to decentralisation, not over the last 23 years, but now. The Government has proposed a blueprint of centralisation within Melbourne and Sydney. The Government proposes to develop an office block in Melbourne to house 20,000 employees of the Commonwealth Public Service. It has another proposal to house 15,000 employees at Woolloomooloo. This has been the record of this Government that now preaches that it can guide people out of the centres of centralisation and try to disperse them with decentralisation. It has been a government of centralisation. May I deal with the question of the powers of the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth Parliament has power over insurance companies and foreign investment. The investment of insurance companies iri the development of the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne and other capital cities has increased over the last 10 years from $144m to $994m or 588 per cent. At the same time the total investment of insurance companies in statutory funds has increased by 190 per cent. There has been further centralisation. Yet this Commonwealth Government had the power to persuade and guide insurance companies to decentralise their investments elsewhere. 
Let me deal now with the question of foreign investment. This Government, because it is too narrow-minded to think rationally, has allowed foreign investment to destroy the central business districts of our capital cities. The property managers of insurance companies have informed me that the investment by overseas interests in capital cities is 4 times that of their own companies. But the Government has refused to make the details of foreign investment in our cities available to me. This Government has the hide to say that it believes in decentralisation. It has been  a  government of centralisation. 
The Government now proposes to deal with land acquisition. I question its proposal. What does it mean by land acquisition? The Government has never done anything about trying to stop the spiralling prices of land in the capital cities or our country cities. Now it talks in glib terms about land acquisition. What does it mean? Does it mean that it will develop leasehold land tenure or does it mean that it will sell the land to its friends. 
Let us examine what has happened in Canberra. From 1st January 1971 the Government altered the whole structure of land ordinance in the Australian Capital Territory. The average amount paid for land at unrestricted sales increased by 178 per cent in 1971 compared with what it was in 1970. In the period January to June 1972 the increase was 255 per cent on the cost in 1971, and 465 per cent on the cost in 1970. ls this the type of land policy that the Government intends to adopt or will it deal with this whole question as a piece of window dressing? The Government will be challenged on its record - not only its record in the last 20 years but its record in the last 10 years and the last 2 years in particular. 
Let me deal further with the Prime Minister's statement. The Prime Minister referred to the question of debt and said he wants the Commonwealth to work in cooperation with the States. What is the position in this respect? The debt of the Commonwealth in the last 23 years has increased by 3.3 per cent, the indebtedness of the States by 364 per cent, that of local government bodies by 845 per cent and that of semi-government authorities by 1,071 per cent - due mainly to the increase in interest. The Commonwealth's interest repayments have increased by 57 per cent, the States by 698 per cent - which is an increase of nearly 700 per cent - local government by 1,931 per cent and semi-government by 2,607 per cent. I wonder when the States, local government bodies and semigovernment authorities will get a fair go from the Government? 
The Government proposes to appoint  Sir John  Overall, a very famous and distinguished Australian who has done a fine job, as the first appointment to the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. However, let me tell the Minis ter that the responsibilities of  Sir John  Overall will not be determined by his Government; they will be determined by a Labor government from this side of the House. We will determine what his responsibilities of  Sir John  Overall will be. The measure proposed by the Government will be only interim legislation and will remain only interim legislation. It will never become permanent. 
Let me deal with the record. The Chifley Labor Government in the post-war years from 1945 to 1949 established an administration and had plans to encourage decentralisation. The Liberal-Country Party governments in the last 23 years destroyed the opportunity to create a new settlement pattern in Australia. During those years Australia's population increased by 65 per cent. The populations of Sydney and Melbourne have increased by about 60 per cent. The main reasons for the increase were the economic and immigration policies commenced by the Chifley Government and outlined in the White Paper on Full Employment in 1945 and subsequent studies. The activities of the Department of Post-War Reconstruction - and let me say that the hidden remnants of that postwar reconstruction have been hidden in the archives of the Minister for Trade and Industry's Department over these long years - and the Department of Immigration saw Australia's early post-war development off to a good start. 
The Liberal-Country Party Government, when it came to power in 1949, was happy to inherit part of Labor's policies, but did not realise that encouraging secondary industries and immigrants was only half the story. In 1948 Labor realised that it would be self-defeating to develop Australia's population and resources rapidly without taking the necessary action to direct and encourage where that development took place. The consequences of those short sighted policies have been admitted by the Prime Minister here tonight. We recognise the long years of bad planning which has been the record of this Government. 
We find the whole question of decentralisation to be a matter of importance particularly in regard to the 2 major cities of Sydney and Melbourne. The 2 major protagonists of decentralisation in this House and elsewhere are the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and myself. We ure both fringe dwellers of the city of Sydney. Unlike the Prime Minister who lives at Potts Point and does not live in bis electorate the Leader of the Opposition lives in suburbia 20 miles from the centre of Sydney. I live 16 miles from the centre of Sydney. If one draws a line north and south through my electorate and that of the Prime Minister at about Flemington the area west of that line in metropolitan Sydney holds a population in excess of one million people, which is more than the number of people who live in the whole of Western Australia. The point I want to make is that this area does not have a theatre where live artists or musicians and ballet dancers may perform. It does not have a museum or an art gallery. 
Labor's policy on decentralisation and urban development will be twofold. It will be directed towards aiding the quality of living on the fringes of our capital cities, particularly those of Sydney and Melbourne. This is an important basis of our policy on urban development and decentralisation. Also we will try to slow up the growth of capital cities. The Leader of my Party has committed himself to the Albury-Wodonga complex. We look at 2 most important principles when dealing with decentralisation. We look at the important question of land and transport costs which must be dealt with. 1 went to Albury some 9 months ago to reiterate the commitment. I said that when the Labor Party comes into office and commits itself to developing Albury-Wodonga, in cooperation with the State governments, the public authority it will set up to develop this area will want authority for land acquisition. 
An important facet of the development of these new cities will be the type of authority we will set up to develop them. The Labor Party believes that it can set up a development authority similar to the National Capital Development Commission. This authority can contain representatives of State and local government. We will develop new cities, some from completely open acres and some from existing cities and towns. We see a corridor of development between Sydney and Melbourne; we see a corridor of development between Sydney and Brisbane; we see a corridor of development between Sydney and Orange in the western districts; we see a corridor of development between Melbourne and Ballarat and between Ballarat and Adelaide; we see a corridor of development sweeping through into the La Trobe Valley. That is our concept. It is important to work on the principle of corridors of development because of the costs of transport which is so vital to Australia. Our cities will also balance with nature and the inhabitants will always be close to open areas. 
The Federal Treasury and the Federal Government have been the major opponents of decentralisation in this country. Only through efficiency and using the best scientific skills of this nation can decentralisation be achieved. We on this side of the House believe we can do it. We believe that we have to slow up the growth of Sydney and Melbourne. People living on the fringes of those cities are no longer really living; they are just existing. They do not have the quality of life to which they are entitled. That is why we join with our brethren in the rural areas in wanting to see a healthy, balanced nation. We believe it can be done, and it will be done under a Federal Labor administration at the end of the year. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
My comments will be brief. I think that an important principle is involved here. We are dealing with the responsibility of the Commonwealth. We are not talking about the responsibility of the States as compared with that of the Commonwealth. Darwin is a Federal responsibility and the highest standards possible should be set by the Commonwealth as an example to the States. On present day costs it will take $l,700m to sewer Sydney and Melbourne alone in the next 10 years. The Sydney authorities are paying 53c in every dollar they receive on interest burden and the Melbourne authorities are paying 58c in every dollar. They need Commonwealth aid. The Commonwealth should be setting an example at least in Commonwealth Territories where it has the responsibility. If one wants to compare the standards of Darwin with those of any other area one should compare them with the standards of Canberra. There is no reason why public servants in Darwin should not receive the same conditions as public servants in Canberra receive. The conditions in Darwin are of a much lower and poorer standard. 
If this proposal is a step in the right direction I will support it. But let me say that the standard have to be set high by the Commonwealth. Unless we set the standards high, in this day and age pollution will destroy many of our beaches. You know,  Mr Speaker,  that in your electorate of Phillip the beaches of Bondi, Bronte and Tamarama are being swamped with effluent. It is a crime that this should happen: that such an affluent society permits effluent to be washed up on its beaches. If this proposal is of a high standard it is the responsibility of the Commonwealth which should not take too many bouquets but should do its job and set its standards high. 
This is an historic occasion. It is probably the first time - it will be only the first of many - that governments have been brought to task with regard to and reminded of the impact of certain legislation on the environment. In introducing his motion the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  said: 
The absence ot reference to the 'environment' in the originally proposed agreement does not mean that this important field has been ignored. 
I question that statement. I wish to deal briefly with the developments that have taken place since the Australian Labor Party proposed in this place the following amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time: 
Whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, this House deplores the Government's failure to prepare and publish, in consultation with the States, a national plan for - 
the full use and development of Australia's forest resources; and 
the conservation of existing hardwood forests and associated flora and fauna in relation to softwood plantings. 
That amendment was defeated in this House but when the Bill went to the other place a similar amendment was passed with the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. A further amendment was also moved at the Committee stage of the debate in the other place by the Democratic Labor Party, which reads: 
At the end of clause 3 add ", subject to the amendment of the agreement by the omission of clause 9 of the Schedule and the insertion in place thereof of the following clauses: 
The State shall ensure that planting during each year is carried out efficiently and in conformity with sound forestry,  environmental  and financial practices. 9a. The State shall ensure that natural forests shall not be cleared for planting softwoods unless the particular proposed clearing has beforehand been the subject of an environmental impact study made by an independent expert on behalf of the Australian Forestry Council and that Council after considering the report of the said study has approved the particular clearing.' ". 
That amendment was also carried in the other place with the support of the Australian Labor Party. This legislation seeks merely to ratify an agreement which has been in force for some 12 months. After further consideration of the matter, the Government decided that it would not accept the amendment passed in another place but would move a further amendment to its original proposal, which reads: 
That the Senate's amendment be disagreed to, but that in place thereof the following amendment be made: 'In the Schedule, at the end of clause 9, add "and shall ensure that environmental factors relating to the planting have been considered".' 
We on this side of the chamber, as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said, support the motion. We are striving for a principle. We do not want to criticise and destroy the good work which has been done by the forestry commissions. The forestry commissions probably would be as environment minded as most people. In fact, they would probably be the leaders in the environmental field. But no matter how progressive the environmental people are they have to be open to criticism and there have been mistakes made by the States. I wish to quote to the chamber a comment which was made in Melbourne on 7th September 1971 by  Dr R.  F. Dusman, senior ecologist of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. He said: 
I don't like to criticise foresters because they are doing a better job than most others. Yet it seems slightly mad to see them knocking over the few remaining areas of natural forest to create exotic plantations of pinus radiata and other species. Surely this is (he time to set them to work planting up the lands that have been cleared as a result of past misguided policies. 
I would like to ask the following question of the Minister for National Development: What does the future hold for the natural eucalyptus forests of the Boyd Plateau? During the debate in this House on the motion for the second reading of this Bill 1 received a telegram from the Colong Committee, which represents 170 conservation societies. In that telegram the Colong Committee called for an amendment to the legislation to protect native eucalypt forests from destruction for pine plantations and the specific exclusion from the agreement of the Konangaroo State Forest on the Boyd Plateau in New South Wales. It claimed that the Plateau is an integral part of the Kanangra Boyd National Park and should not be destroyed with Commonwealth funds. I want to know what the future holds for the Boyd Plateau. What is to happen to the natura] forest on that Plateau? We know that the destruction of natural Australian eucalypt forests can affect not only other species of flora but also the natural fauna living in the area. We know that certain flora and fauna indigenous to our country will not survive in areas replanted with exotic softwood forests. The result is an upsetting of the balance of the eco-system. I believe that the hardwood and natural Australian forests should be allowed to remain. The forestry authorities are mainly interested in planting exotic softwoods. The question of overplanting also has to be taken into consideration. It may be that too much pinus radiata is being planted. My advice is that a particular type of infectious germ can affect the whole softwood forest in an area. In other words, we may be putting all of our eggs into the one basket. Perhaps we should diversify more. I believe that we should be planting more hardwood forests. But I do not believe that we should destroy the natural hardwood forests. By doing so we upset the balance of the eco-system. What we should be doing is restricting our farm acreage instead of extending it. 
lt is quite possible. I am not saying that it is true. 
It is not true. It is quite possible that the States have adopted a chauvinist approach. As far as I am concerned, when one starts to deal with the environment one should remember that everything is connected to everything else. I can assure the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  that I do not support the policy of the Labor Government in Tasmania with regard to Lake Pedder; I do not support the Liberal Government of Victoria's destruction of Westernport; and I do not like the conservative Government of New South Wales sanctioning the destruction of beaches by sand mining interests on the north coast of that State or the angophora forest near The Entrance on the central coast of that State. We are going to have chauvinist problems with the States, but we can by education and discussion bring the matter to a higher level. As I said, this will be just the first of many actions to be taken in this Parliament with regard to the environment. I commend the Government for at least relenting. I hope that it will take action and not just speak words. I want to hear what the Government is going to do about the Boyd Plateau. What action does it propose to take? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Bill before the House seeks to amend a Bill which was introduced following an election promise in 1963 by the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. He proposed to make a $500 grant for savings of $1,500 over 3 years towards the purchase of a home. Subsequently, due to inflationary trends, the Commonwealth has increased the maximum allowable value of a house attracting a grant. This value has been raised, first from $14,000 to $15,000 and subsequently to $17,500. This Bill seeks again to raise the maximum value from $17,500 to $22,500. Other changes are to be made. The maximum grant payable is to be raised from $500 to $750 and the acceptable savings level is to be raised from $1,500 to $2,250 or more. The limit of savings in any one savings year to establish eligibility for a grant is to be increased from $600 to $900. A further change relates to the easing of requirements in respect of credit union savings. 
I have always contended that the home savings grants scheme has not helped in any way to solve the problems of the building industry. It has not really assisted young people to acquire a home. I believe that an important principle is involved. One factor in the scheme is the combined value of the land and dwelling. Generally speaking, throughout the Commonwealth home building costs are fairly uniform, but the cost of land varies widely between the States. It is very hard to find official statistical data on land costs because this regressive Government - I use the term deliberately - until recent years has made no attempt to keep records of land costs in the States. Records have been kept only in the last few years although this Government has been in power for 23 years. 
Only through an organisation such as the War Service Homes Division can one gain statistical data applicable over a long period. I was able to obtain through the research service of the Parliamentary Library costs of land in each State as related to average weekly earnings. For the purpose of the calculation an index figure of 100 was taken to represent the cost of land in 1950. By 1970 the index figure in New South Wales had risen to 1261. In Victoria it rose from 100 in 1950 to 663 in 1970. Land costs in Queensland rose from 100 in 1950 to 684 in 1970, while in South Australia the index figure rose to 767 in 1970. In Western Australia the index figure rose to 1028 in 1970 and in Tasmania it rose to 391. Clearly the costs of land have varied in each State. It is also clear that land in New South Wales is much dearer than in any other State, and is dearer in Western Australia than in all States except New South Wales. 
A big factor in land costs in a State is the influence of the major cities - that is Sydney in New South Wales, Perth in Western Australia and Melbourne in Victoria. My contention is that the land component should be taken out of this proposal. It would be better to determine an amount for a dwelling and to exclude the aspect of land. I would have thought that a loan of about $15,000 as a maximum for a dwelling would have been realistic. With the cost of a dwelling and land at $22,500, in some States you could buy a luxury type home for that amount. But I am afraid that in New South Wales, particularly in Sydney, that is approximately the average cost of the land and dwelling. The average cost of a block of land in Sydney is now about $9,000 and the cost of a dwelling exceeds $12,000. I would think that the average cost of land and dwelling in Sydney would be between $21,000 and $22,000. 
In the last occasion on which legislation of this type was put through this House I said to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  - and I might say that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  agreed with me - that people in electorates in the Sydney metropolitan area represented by a Liberal member of this Parliament would not be eligible for a loan to build a dwelling in their electorates. In other words, the cost of the dwelling and land would mean that the amount of loan was inadequate. Consequently it will be noted that the Government has increased the amount of loan, firstly, from $14,000 to $15,000 and then from $15,000 to $17,500, which is a jump of $2,500. Within a very short period the Government has had to raise the limit by a further $5,000. What does this mean? It means that there is an enormous inflationary trend. This is an admission that since the inception of this proposal there has been an increase of 58.9 per cent in housing costs. 
Let us again look at the figures. When 1 refer to the war service homes proposal ! must say that these figures are more regulated and more conservative. In the private sector of building the cost of a dwelling and land is much higher than under the war service homes scheme, As I have said, there has been an increase of 58.9 per cent in housing costs. But even under the war service homes scheme the average cost of land and dwelling, according to reports of the War Service Homes Division, rose from $10,100 in 1963-64 to $16,800 in 1971-72, an increase of 66 per cent on an Australiawide basis. There was a similar pattern throughout Australia. One can see that there has been an enormous inflationary trend under this Government. What have I argued? I have consistently argued that over a long period of time this Government has not really tried to solve the problem of inflationary land prices. It has never really solved the problem of inflationary prices in regard to housing, nor has it really tried to control interest rates. With the permission of the House I shall have incorporated in Hansard a table setting out details of interest rates in Australia. If I may 1 will give some details of the increased cost of interest rates on the repayment of loans for dwellings from the time when the homes savings grant was first introduced in June 1964 until April 1972. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="080131197209206_22_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080131197209206_22_1.jpg"></graphic>

 An examinationof the interest rates charged by permanent building societies reveals that in 1964 the typical rate was between5½ per cent and 6 per cent. In April 1972 the ruling rate was between7½ per cent and 8 per cent. The rates charged by the Commonwealth Savings Bank varied from 4) per cent to5¼ per cent in 1964. In 1972 the rate varies between6¼ per cent and63/4 per cent. The rate charged by trading banks - this is the overdraft maximum rate - was 7 per cent in 1964. It is now73/4 per cent. The rate charged by insurance companies rose from 7½ per cent in 1964 to between7½ per cent and8½ per cent in 1972. An amount of$15,000 would probably be an average loan through Australia. Let us consider a loan granted at the permanent building society rate. It is difficult to assess a loan of $15,000 from savings banks where the interest rate on a first mortgage loan maximum of $9,000 is 6i per cent on a new dwelling and 6$ per cent for an existing dwelling. I have said that the average cost of land and dwelling in Sydney is in excess of S2 1,000. So a person has to get a second mortage loan. On a second mortgage loan from a saving bank people generally have to pay in the vicinity of  Ti  per cent or 8 per cent, repayable over 8 years, not spread over 25 years or 31 years which is the normal time required by savings banks. So I have taken the rates charged by permanent building societies because permanent building societies give one loan at a given rate. 
Let us examine the interest burden on a loan of $15,000 taken out at 6 per cent in 1964 and repayable over 25 years. The total repayments would amount to 29,335. which include the interest and principle. In other words, the interest payments would amount to $14,335. If you took out the same loan today you would have to pay the ruling interest rate of 8 per cent and the total interest repayment would be about 20,130. In other words a person pays $5,795 more in interest charges on a loan of $15,000 taken out to-day than would be payable on a loan of $15,000 taken out in 1964. 
Let us examine the position: The Government, on the one hand, gave a $500 homes savings grant - now increased to $750  -  but on the other hand it took back $5,795 which represents the increased payments on interest charges. This is action taken by this Government. The first position that we are looking at is that this Government has not in any way tried to control interest rates in the private sector of housing except in one minute sector - the terminating building societies. But in comparison with the total number of houses built in Australia, the number financed by the terminating building societies is minute. 
Previously 1 was dealing with interest rates charged by the Commonwealth Savings Bank and all other savings banks. Until April 1970 the rate of interest charged by a savings bank was 5$ per cent, but what happened after the credit squeeze caused by this Government? Interest rates increased by  i  per cent to bring them up to  6i  per cent. The amount of a first mortgage loan obtainable through a savings bank is $9,000. Interest rates charged to build a private dwelling in Australia have not been reduced. The Commonwealth Government should have put pressure on to the Commonwealth Savings Bank and other savings banks long ago in the area of first mortgage loans, where it has the authority to do so. First mortgage loans should be increased to at least $12,000, but we suggest that it should be even higher. Savings banks should reduce interest rates to restore them to the level of at least April 1970, but we suggest that they should be reduced even further. The Government's credit squeeze of April 1970 struck a heavy blow against the whole of the home building industry of Australia, from which it has never recovered. At that time the Government put pressure on the Australian home building industry. 
Let us now look at the number of buildings which have been commenced. In a recent article in the 'Sun-Herald' the Minister for Housing proudly stated that housing commencements throughout Australia had increased by 6 per cent over the last year. What he did not say was that 1970-71 had been a slump period because of the actions of his Government. If we compare the figure for 1971-72 with that of 1969-70, we find that the increase in housing commencements throughout Australia was only 1 per cent. However, we find that during that period more than 200,000 couples were married in this country. When people are married they want a home of their own. During the last 3 years the net immigration intake into this country has been some 300.000 people. Yet we have increased our home building rate by only 1 per cent. If we look at the most populous State of New South Wales we find that the increase in home building in 1971-72 over that in 1970- 71 was 1.2 per cent, but when the 1971- 72 figure is compared with that of 1969-70, we find that the commencement rate has dropped by 5.3 per cent. 
We have an unemployment situation in the building industry and associated industries in Australia. The building industry is the biggest employer of labour in Australia. If we want to generate a stimulus in the economy we should give a stimulus to the home building sector of the building industry and its associated industries, which include home appliances, curtains, carpets and so forth. It is time this Government really gave a stimulus to the economy through both the private and the public sector of the building industry. I would like to go into greater detail in relation to the public sector of the industry but, after all, this Bill deals with the private sector. 
If one really examines the proposals of the Budget one finds a very negative approach to the whole social problem of housing and living in this country. I argue that if the Goverment was able to persuade, encourage or direct the Commonwealth Savings Bank and other savings banks to increase their first mortgage loans - the Government knows it has the authority to do this - more people would be brought within the area of being able to repay a loan. I repeat that the average cost of land is §9,000 and the average cost of a dwelling is $12,000, a total of $21,000. Yet we find that the first mortgage loan through the savings banks is $9,000. With savings reserves at a record level, what is really mystifying the Treasury is why people are putting their money into banks instead of spending it. The Government could direct the savings banks to make this money available to home builders. Why is it necessary to have a crisis in New South Wales? Why arc there now 40,000 people on the waiting list of the New South Wales Housing Commission alone? The number of people on the waiting list has increased from 28,000 2 years ago to 40,000 today. The reason for this is that people cannot meet the monthly payments involved in purchasing a home. 
If these people wanted to obtain a loan of even $15,000 the only way they could get a first mortgage loan of that amount is through the permanent building societies, but then they would have to save at least $6,000 for a deposit. This is a very difficult task for young people today. But if they are able to save $6,000 for a deposit, what will be the repayments on this loan of $15,000? Their repayments over 25 years would be something like $115 a month. Working on the basis that that should represent 25 per cent of earnings, this would mean that the wage earner should be earning between $110 and $120 a week. However, average weekly earnings are still well below $100 a week, and I might say that 70 per cent of Australian wage earners earn less than the average weekly earnings. So how many people are prevented from purchasing a home because for economic reasons they are unable to meet the repayments involved in buying a block of land and building a dwelling? These people go to the only place they can go, and that is to the housing commissions in their respective States. And the housing commission under the greatest pressure is that in the State of New South Wales. 
Many important facets of the problem have to be solved. First of all, this Government has to meet the crisis in the private home building sector of the community. It has to increase first mortgage loans through the savings banks. It has to ; educe interest rates on these loans. If a couple has to take out a second mortgage loan through a savings bank, the repayments on that loan should be made over the full period of the first mortgage loan instead of over a short repayment period of 8 years. This at least will ensure that the repayments are balanced over a longer period of time. The fact that second mortgage loans have to be paid within 8 years prices many people out of constructing their own home. 
The Government also has to make a move on the question of land prices. In his statement delivered last night on urban and regional development the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  indicated that the Government will now move into the field of land acquisition. The Australian Labor Party has been saying for years that the Government, in co-operation with the States, must acquire large tracts of land which can be developed on a similar basis to that on which land was developed in Canberra prior to January 1971. In that period a block of restricted land in Canberra cost $900. At the group sales the price paid was about $1,700 and even at the unrestricted sales it was only $3,000. But now, because of the change in land ordinances, land costs have spiralled in Canberra. This Government destroys anything that is good. The previous land policy had proved itself over the past 50 years. The Government needs to move into the public acquisition of land on the fringe of all our capital cities and provincial and country towns. We must subdivide these areas and in some cases build complete communities. Where the need may not be so great we should acquire land and consequently subdivide it. We should do so in such a way as to put the telegraph wires underground, with tree planting in the streets and the subdivisions landscaped. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I ask the honourable member to come back to the Bill. He has strayed quite considerably from it. 
With due respect to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we are talking about housing and I am now dealing with the question of private housing. If we want to solve the question of housing in the private sector we have to take the land component out of it. Do you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker- 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I preface it by reminding him that on Tuesday evening when making a statement on decentralisation he intimated that interim legislation on decentralistion would be introduced into Parliament during this session. So that an informed debate can be held on the Government's intentions will the Prime Minister table the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee report which follows 7 years of inaction by the Commonwealth Government? Will he also table the second minority report compiled by the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development which is in his possession? If he will not table the official report, is it because it is a thoroughly incompetent report? 
by leave- I do not want to crow and say 'I told you so', but in my Budget speech of 24th August I warned the Government of the implications involved in this proposed tax. The Australian Labor Party decided that it would oppose this tax had it come before the House. I am now aware why the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was so sensitive in the House during question time this morning when I interjected, while he was answering a Dorothy Dix question about environmental impact statements, 'What about the proposed liquid petroleum gas tax?' However, again this Government has been caught on the wrong foot. At least on this occasion it has had the sense to admit that it was wrong. 
It made a decision to place an excise tax on liquefied petroleum gas used for the propulsion of motor vehicles. The excise was to be 3c per litre, which was equivalent to 13.6c per gallon. The decision was a cruel blow to the people of the cities of Australia. Over the whole 23 years of its reign and particularly over latter years, this Government has treated the urban people of Australia in a pretty shabby manner. However, the Government obviously has faced up to the fact that in an election year this decision was electoral suicide. The motor car accounts for at least 60 per cent of the air pollution in all Australian cities. LPG, from an environmental point of view, is a blessing to the air of the cities, while petroleum is a curse. LPG can lower the emission of hydro-carbons by 70 per cent, carbon monoxide by 80 per cent and oxides of nitrogen by 60 per cent, compared with petrol. The Government had the audacity and the ignorance to suggest - particularly the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  about whose Budget Speech I am talking- that the advantages, of LPG 'will be diminished as emission control standards are implemented'. Clearly somebody has told the Government how wrong this statement was. The statement assumed that the present 1973 standards will achieve a great reduction in air pollution. They will reduce somewhat the levels of carbon monoxide and hydro-carbons. However, even when they are most effective they will only result in ambient air standards for carbon monoxide and hydro-carbons in Australian cities equivalent to the levels in 1966 when there were no regulations. The United States standards to be effective in 1975 seek to return to the ambient air quality of the late 1930s to early 1940s. In addition, auto emission standards ignore oxide of nitrogen, a key ingredient of photochemical smog. Already Melbourne is being affected by this photochemical smog. Liquid petroleum gas more than halves the oxide of nitrogen emitted by motor cars. 
Finally, with LPG no additives are necessary. The most important of those additives is tetraethyl lead. There is now irrefutable evidence accumulating that lead in petrol is a major health hazard. The United States of American under  President  Nixon is taxing it out of petroleum. Yet in Australia we are considering setting up a plant at Botany Bay to manufacture tetraethyl lead. Australia is petroleum poor but LPG rich. The Government should have known that on economic grounds alone this was a stupid tax. Recently some very large supplies of gas have been located on the northwest continental shelf of this country. The original tax measures indicate how seriously this Government considers the problems of the cities and the Australian environment. Perhaps the recent finding that the carbon monoxide levels in Australian cities are equal to or greater than those in other cities of the world has given the Government the jitters and we know what jitters this Government has about cities. All of a sudden after 23 years it wants to involve itself in urban problems. This was evidenced by the urgent statement the other night by the Prime Minister. 
The proposed tax also indicated that the Government fails to see that everything is connected to everything else. Of course, this shows the blind stupidity of this Government. When dealing with environmental aspects it cannot recognise the fact that everything is connected to everything else. It treats LPG as a separate entity. It ignores the environmental impact of petroleum on city air. It ignores the fact that if LPG powered most of Australia's cars our oil imports would diminish to almost nothing. This Government does not have the capacity to lead. I doubt whether it really does any thinking at all. Recently in Canberra on Northbourne Avenue concentrations of carbon monoxide of 55 parts per million were recorded. Canberra is a city with absolutely no dirty industry. The culprit here, of course, is the motor car. In Los Angeles, where there is slow-moving, heavy traffic on the freeways, the reading is about the same as in the planned city of Canberra where the reading of 55 parts per million was recorded. We need leadership from the Government and I hope that the Australian people at the end of this year will make the decision that this was another stupid blunder of this Government because it never thought the matter through. 
On 24th May last, speaking on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who is now sitting on the front bench, made a statement that all Federal action would require an 'environmental impact statement'. We know what a sham that statement really was because there was no impact statement with regard to LPG. There was no really deep consideration of the implications; if there had been this Government would not have had to change its mind. It has done so now only because this statement has been brought in. I know what pressures are placed on the Government by the environmental bodies throughout Australia. Representations have been made to me and if they have been made to me as the Opposition spokesman then I think I know what pressures have been placed on the Government. If an impact statement had been prepared before the decision was taken to remove the tax exemption on LPG this tax surcharge would not have been considered in the first place. This tax on LPG indicates that decisions are made in the Treasury and to hell with the environmental consequences. This is the real point. The decision was made by the Treasury which said: To hell with everybody else.' Labor will do a much better job than this Government has done. It will ensure that decisions take into account environmental factors, irrespective of who makes them. We will set up the necessary machinery to ensure that this is done. What is more, we will do it without building a huge monolithic environment department and it will not act as a big brother to other departments, the States, the municipalities or private industries. 
I conclude on this point: Even after these stupid blunders have occurred at least I am glad that, even in an election year, there is a little bit of sensitivity coming from the Commonwealth Government. For so long this Government has ignored the cities but in the last few months it has discovered that the majority of people in Australia - between 85 and 90 per cent - reside in the cities. The 2 major cities in Australia, Sydney and Melbourne, are now suffering from the problems of oxide of nitrogen and photochemical smog. Therefore, I am pleased that at last, after all its blunders, this Government has decided in this election year not to go ahead with its Budget proposal to impose this tax. 
I put on record my thoughts about the real role of the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts in a federal system. The evolution of this Department is not at all encouraging, and I lay the blame for that fairly and squarely on the Government because for long it has not understood what this Department should do. In the Estimates debate last year I asked a question of the Government. I challenged it to describe to this Parliament its concept of what should be the concern of the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Since then we have been lucky enough to get one ministerial statement from the Minister for the 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  on 24th May last in which he detailed the Department's so-called duties. Clearly the concept of such a department held by the Government is very limited and out of date and if I asked honourable members to state the first couple of items which came to their minds when I mentioned the word 'environment', we could see what part of the problem is. 
Many countries have tried to set up huge monolithic departments with the power to solve environmental problems. This is a hopeless and futile path to take. One cannot put environmental problems under one bureaucratic roof, for the environment is not a thing but a complex of interconnected natural and man-made items. The environment is a complex interconnected web in a state of constant change. What the environment is like depends upon the point from and time at which we view it. The result of the monolithic approach is the bureaucratic fights of the type we saw in New South Wales where 4 departments were fighting for power to control the emissions from motor vehicles in New South Wales. In the final analysis it does not matter who regulates auto emissions and the air of Sydney and Melbourne will not be better because of such a fight. What is important is that an environmental programme be undertaken, no matter who regulates auto emissions. The Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts can investigate and write the guidelines to indicate what is environmentally wise. It does not necessarily have to regulate auto emissions. 
In the case of auto emissions let me say at this point that we had a total sell-out to the auto and petroleum industries in Australia. These industries dominated the working group of the Australian Transport Advisory Council which produced the standard we are to get in 1974. As a result it will take until 1985 to reduce pollution to the levels of 1966 which was a year when no regulations were in force. In 1985 the United States aims to return to the ambient air quality of the late 1930s. 
The Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has a key role to play here to ensure that such sell-outs to industry do not occur. The Australian people are now finding out, despite Government secrecy, that carbon monoxide levels in their cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, are the highest in the world. Total oxidant levels in Sydney have reached 17 parts per hundred million. In Los Angeles a reading of 20 is regarded as severe. The 1974 standards in Australia do not even include emission controls on oxides of nitrogen which act to create oxidants. This oxidant creation is a key step in the formation of photochemical smog. A Labor government will greatly tighten the standards and adopt the United States standards including standards on oxides of nitrogen. The European standards are about 35 times worse than the 1975 United States standards in the items of carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen. A Labor government will consider the public's health first and not automobile companies, towards which this Government has been leaning. Guidelines which the Department of the Environment can lay down are sets of rules which define environmentally-wise ways of doing anything; of building dams or roads or a new town; cleaning land, managing city air, planting forests, building and siting industries, designing transportation and maintaining natural ecosystems to allow evolution to continue, or managing our arid interior or our precious coastline, or harvesting wood, mining and exporting minerals, generating power or viewing the population policy, and many others. The guidelines for all these things must be hammered out and then advocated. The Environment Department can advocate these guidelines to other paris of the Government, to the States and local governments and to private industry. These in turn should account to the Department of the Environment for their performance in meeting these guidelines. The Department must have teeth to use but, hopefully, they should not have to be used too often, for I believe that when most people act they do not deliberately plan to plunder the environment; they do it out of ignorance or because of special pressures. Regulation in most cases can be left where it already exists. 
The key to the whole process is the socalled environmental impact statement assessment. The Minister in his paper of 24th May indicated that environment impact statements would be required of federally funded projects. It sounded too good to be true. The Government's programme is merely window-dressing. Any environmental impact statements will be for Cabinet and bureaucratic eyes only. The people to whom the environment belongs will have no say in what is being done to it by the Government. But since then of course the Government has been under pressure. The Prime Minister in a reply to a question by the Leader of the Opposition in this House on Tuesday last said that in his opinion the environmental impact statement should be made public. This was a rebuke to the Minister for the Environment who on 21st August in this House, in reply to a question by me, said that impact statements would not be available to the Australian public or to organisations but only to Government members. 
But the Government has not yet made clear its proposals as to how the people will be involved - and this is an important aspect - in regard to the impact statements. In the United States all impact statements are publicly available and most agencies hold public hearings on particular proposals before writing a draft impact statement. The final impact statement sent to the Council on Environmental Quality must include all the public comments on the statement. This is open government. Here in Australia we have secret government, and I stress that fact. A Labor government will make all impact statements available to the public and will require them not only where Federal money is involved but also where Commonwealth constitutional power is involved. The constitutional power Includes the environmental protection of Commonwealth territory, the environmental impact of interstate or international trade particularly the export of natural resources, the regulation of corporations now that quite a few issues have been cleared up by the High Court in the so called concrete pipes case, and certain other areas. In areas of environmental impact assessment which do not require Federal money or power and over which the Commonwealth has no jurisdiction the Commonwealth will act to work with the States for rational management and the protection of the Australian environment. 
The Commonwealth must be prepared to lead and be firm in this leadership. All sections of Australian life from the Australian Mining Industries Council to the trade unions require firm leadership from this Government. Here in Australia we have many big environmental problems. Lack of leadership at the Commonwealth level is allowing the situation to worsen very rapidly. Good examples are the ad hoc destruction of much of our beautiful coastline and the stupid competition between the States in export of non-renewable resources such as coal. Still in other areas we are a second chance country. We have the chance to meet our commitment. It is about time that the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts gave some leadership in these matters. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This report is a result of 7 years of work by the Commonwealth-State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation. A copy of the report was handed to me only about an hour before I came into the House and therefore I have been able to survey it only briefly. I have spoken on many occasions of the competent people who have examined this report in detail. I have been advised that it is an incompetent report and that it fails to deal with the really important aspects of the problems of centralisation and the necessity for decentralisation that confront us. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been extremely sensitive about the criticism of the report by the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development. In fact, one has only to examine the remarks of the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development to realise how sensitive the Prime Minister is. A supplementary statement in the Commonwealth-State Officials' report is headed: 
Supplementary statement prepared by New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development. 
May I say that these men have the complete backing of the honourable J. B. Fuller, the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development. The report states: 
On behalf of New South Wales, the Department of Decentralisation and Development subscribes to  the amended Report of the Commonwealth-State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation, subject to the reservations and qualifications expressed hereunder, which are tendered as an annexure to the report. 
It goes on to say: 
On behalf of New South Wales a statement dated 25th October 1971 was submitted, dissenting from the terms of the draft of the CommonwealthState report - 
And may I just point out to the House that in a speech to this House on 7th March of this year I was able to table that dissent aspect of the New South Wales Department's report. The report goes on: 
The dissenting statement contained a number of observations which are still pertinent to the final draft and which warrant restating as an expression of the State's views. 
I do not know whom we are to believe. Are we to believe the remark the Prime Minister made in his statement that the Premier of New South Wales disassociates himself from the Department of Decentralisation and Development or are we to believe that the Department is expressing the views of the State? Is the Premier of New South Wales disassociating himself from the remarks of the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development,  Mr Fuller?  We know already that there are differences between the Department of Decentralisation and the Commonwealth. These are aspects which we have to examine. The report goes on to say: 
In effect, while New South Wales subscribes to the final report, it disputes the interpretation of the evidence and disagrees with much of the supporting analysis. 
This is the report which was made after officials looked into this matter for 7 years. 
My Leader interpolates to say that it was 8 years. They examined this matter of decentralisation and regional development for 8 years and yet we now find that there is a difference of opinion between the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development and the remarks of the Prime Minister. After all, the inactivity of the Commonwealth has been notorious. The Prime Minister has to have some face-saving device, so he has joined with Premier Askin who is a great centralist. The report is about decentralisation, but the New South Wales Premier is the greatest centralist of all. He wants to build the grandiose Woolloomooloo scheme, which is another example of over centralisation. He wants to go ahead with the Rocks development in the centre of Sydney, which is another great centralist development. With the co-operation of the Commonwealth Government he. has permitted over-building in the central business district of Sydney, the development of North Sydney and his government proposes to build a third State office block costing $14m in the centre of Sydney. These are examples of the centralisation permitted by the Premier of New South Wales who now agrees with the proposals of the Prime Minister. I wish to quote again from this supplementary statement. It is not called a dissenting report as it was on 25th October 1971. The term has been softened down to a supplementary statement. This report prepared by the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development states under the heading 'General Observations': " 
For example,  the  fundamental obscurity about centralisation' pervades the report. 
We know about the centralisation of this Government and this Government has to pay for its policies. If the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  will support the Labor Party's proposal in relation to decentralisation, we will join with him and his party. We want to make decentralisation a real thing but one has to examine the record of this Government. It has been a Government of centralisation. It has over-built the central business districts of all our capital cities. It has allowed insurance companies to increase their capital investment in buildings in the centre of cities from $144m in 1961 to almost $l,000m in March 1972. For every $1 invested by insurance companies $4 has been invested by foreign companies. There have been no planning, no controls and no guidelines. The Government has allowed this centralisation in the centre of Sydney, Melbourne and all other capital cities. 
Of course, we have to examine the other problems. What concern has this Government shown to try to stop the freeway distributors that are being constructed in Sydney? Commonwealth money is being used to build these freeways and the Commonwealth has a right to say where this money should be spent. Freeway distributors are being built in the inner city areas of Sydney and Melbourne, and this has proved to be the wrong aproach in every  major city in the world. Freeway distributors might solve the traffic problem temporarily but in the long term they only aggravate the position. Last night under pressure the Prime Minister said that he is now prepared to look at rapid railway transport in urban areas. The Labor Party has been advocating this for years. The problems of the cities have to be solved by proper planning, and not by overcentralisation. The report goes on to say that if there is a decentralisation policy, there will be a saving of $223m in the next 30 years if the growth of Sydney between 1970 and the year 2000 is slowed by 500,000 people. We have been arguing this for some time and, frankly, Labor Party policy will be based towards achieving that end. 
The major enemy of decentralisation has been this Commonwealth Government. Since 1949 the population of this country has increased by 65 per cent. A great deal of this increase has been the result of immigration. In fact, almost 1 per cent of our population increase has been as a result of migrants coming to this country; another 1 per cent comes from national increase. Instead of there being planning to decentralise industry, as was done by the Department of Postwar Reconstruction, so that these migrants and industries would go to the country areas, they went into the cities and have aggravated the growth problems of the cities. This is the result of the Liberal-Country Party Government's failure to effect a dispersal of industry which is part of Labor's policy. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is a fringe dweller of Sydney; he lives in suburbia. He does not live in Double Bay like the Prime Minister. He lives in his electorate and he knows the difficult problems faced by the people who live in suburbia. The Leader of the Opposition and I, who are both fringe dwellers, have advocated that there be an improvement in the quality of living on the fringes of our capital cities. This is why we have talked about building metro towns in Sydney and Melbourne. They should be built on the same basis as the Belconnen and Woden areas, so that there is some quality of living on the fringes of our cities. In this way we can build up and develop growth areas such as Parramatta, Liverpool, Campbelltown and Penrith, not only as commercial centres to balance our transport load but also as cultural centres. 
Because at the moment the real crisis exists in Sydney and Melbourne, we must meet the crisis in these areas. As well as improving the quality of life on the fringes of Sydney we want to improve the quality of life on the fringes of Melbourne. The only way that this can be done is by rational and proper planning. Consequently we say that we have to build a corridor of development between Sydney and Melbourne. We will have to make huge investments in order to upgrade our road and rail transport systems and along this corridor we will build new communities. We will begin with the Albury-Wodonga complex. Might I say to the Country Party that I am not unhappy with the proposal put forward by the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development to develop the Orange-Bathurst area as a growth area. In fact, I think it is a progressive move. However, it has a lower priority than the development of the Albury-Wodonga complex. I do not intend to capitalise on the difference of opinion between  Mr Fuller  of the Department of Decentralisation and Development and the  Deputy  Prime Minister who, unlike the Prime Minister, wants to some extent to see this decentralisation policy really succeed. Because the  Deputy  Prime Minister is a member of the Cabinet he has to take a great deal of the blame for the overcentralisation of our capital cities. 
In planning the building of our cities for the future we have to bear in mind that we are living in a day and age in which we have to be wise environmentally. We have to make sure that in developing cities such as the Albury-Wodonga complex we have high standards of pollution control. These standards will have to be higher than those which operate in Canberra. Without high standards of pollution control in developing Albury-Wodonga the salinity of the River Murray will increase and people further down the Murray will have to pay for the mistakes made just as they have had to pay for lack of planning over the years. Labor will introduce high standards of pollution control. We will be wise  environmetally  and will build our cities in balance with nature. 
There are 2 major questions about which we will be concerned. Firstly, we will try to bring about efficiency in rail  and road transport because we know the great problems involved in Australia's cost structure because of transport. Secondly, there is the important principle of land costs. The average price of residential land in Sydney is nearly S10,000; in Melbourne it is between $7,000 and $8,000. Industrial and commercial land costs are also spiralling. A Labor government will work on a leasehold land tenure system similar to that which formerly functioned in Canberra on 1 January 1971. I believe that cities must be developed by a statutory authority similar to the National Capital Development Commission. 
They are the things which Labor will seek to achieve. We will work in cooperation with the States. We will have the courage at least to sit down and work in co-operation with our colleagues in the States and in local government in order to make decentralisation a real success story. Surely this Government cannot claim after 8 years that this report is a success story. If this Government wants to compare its efforts it should compare them with the first report of the task force on new cities undertaken by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies. That report took only 8 months compared with the Government's efforts over a period of 8 years. This effort is an example ot the go-slow, negative thinking of this Government. It is about time that we replaced it with a more progressive government that will do something about decentralisation. 
The Prime Minister would be aware that enormous investment is proposed by the Commonwealth Government, insurance companies and foreign investors in office ' development in the centres of Australian major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, in the next few years. Is he aware that this type of overdevelopment in the centres of these cities .has to be subsidised by way of excessive costs in the upgrading of all services, such as sewerage, telephones, road and rail transport? Is the Prime Minister also aware that this type of development counteracts any action that might be taken by his. Government in its proposed decentralisation policy? 
In this debate on the estimates for the Department of the Interior I intend to make some remarks about the proposed Commonwealth office development at Woolloomooloo. The Liberal-Country Party Government has argued that the health of the cities is a State matter, that the Commonwealth Government cannot and should not involve itself directly in the planning of Australia's urban settlements. My colleagues and I reject this viewpoint as being contrary to and an abdication of the national Government's responsibilities to the people of Australia. We find the present Government's attitude quite incredible in the light of the obvious evidence to the contrary. After listening to the second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  this morning on the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill, I do not think he really understands what are the problems of the urban areas and what cities are. The Government really does not know what its responsibilities are in thu regard. The Prime Minister does not really understand what he said in his speech this morning. He said that the Government had made the important decision to involve itself in urban and regional development Of course, urban development involves cities. At question time this morning the Prime Minister in fact said that the cities were a State responsibility. On the other hand, when he made his second reading speech he said that the Commonwealth will involve itself in urban and regional development. 
However, I want to deal with this important Woolloomooloo development. The main engines of urban growth in Australia in the last 20 years have been the Federal Government's twin projects of rapid industrialisation and large scale immigration. It is the Federal Government which provides most of the funds for urban transport. Unfortunately, this is used only for roads and not for urban public transport. At least up to the present the Commonwealth has not provided funds for urban public transport but again this will be an election gimmick at the eleventh hour. Even more obvious are the decisions of the Federal Government which directly affect what happens to a city. Airports are the most obvious example of this type of decision. 
I want to talk about a very glaring example of the entry of this Government into the field of urban affairs. The Standing Parliamentary Committee on Public Works has recommended against the proposal from the Department of the Interior to build an office complex in Woolloomooloo for 15,000 Commonwealth public servants. Of this number 9,000 will be accommodated in the first stage. I commend the recommendation of the Committee that this proposal be rejected. We on this side of the House have been advocating this for a long time. The Commonwealth proposal raised very important town planning issues. A new office building of this size either can add to existing congestion or it could be used in a positive way to encourage the development of new areas of business activity away from the central city. Typically those issues were not considered by this Government when it put forward this proposal. They were not raised because this Government does not have a real urban policy. It denies any responsibility for the state of our cities. 
The development spotlight turned on to Woolloomooloo when those redevelopment enthusiasts, the City Commissioners, asked the State Planning Authority for some planners to carry out for the Council a redevelopment study for the area. The request was ill conceived and the response was worse. What emerged was an old fashioned plan with tower buildings artistically placed on a model but with no apparent thought for the people living there, the regional impact of the scheme, or of how commuters and cars would get into or out of the already congested valley of Woolloomooloo. It was irresponsible planning. Unfortunately, the State Planning Authority has been stuck with the mistakes of its own planners. The reign of the City Commissioners ended, leaving Sydney with a legacy of an illconceived, badly planned office boom. 
The incoming Council appointed consultant planners to try to sort out the mess. The main point made by these planners was that the city's future office development should be kept within the long, thin area between Circular Quay and Central Railway. These planners at least recognised the absurdity of trying to move all those office workers in and out of Woolloomooloo. For example, their report shows that a work force of 80,000 in Woolloomooloo, which is easily possible if the present plans go ahead, would result in up to 45,000 people trying to use Town Hall station at peak hour instead of the 15,000 to 20,000 who use it now. For a variety of reasons, some of which are best known to themselves, the Civic Reform Councillors and the State Government have rejected this considered and documented advice and have given generous support for the developers' plan for the destruction and over-building of Woolloomooloo. Nobody is more in favour of this proposal than the State Premier of New South Wales, the  Hon. Sir Robert  Askin, who is a centralist and a strong advocate for the redevelopment of the Woolloomooloo area. 
On top of all these mistakes the Commonwealth wants to add its own massive piece of congestion. What concerned me most about the proposal was 'its failure (o consider the decision in terms of the opportunities which could be grasped by decentralising Commonwealth offices away from the Sydney central area. The Council's planners projected that Sydney's central office employment would rise from the present 231,000 to 358,000' by '.the year 2000, an increase of 55. per cent. The number of office workers coming in from the outer western and southern suburbs is estimated to rise from 50,000 to 121,000, an increase of l'40 per cent. If in fact this happens, intolerable budens will bc placed on the workers and their families, on the State Treasury for the cost of upgrading the train service to cope with one-way peak loads, and on the Commonwealth taxpayer in order to pay for destructive inner city expressways and bridges. 
The construction of office buildings in Parramatta, Liverpool, Penrith, Campbelltown and in other decentralised 'locations where most of the people' live '"is necessary. Public servants wm reside in the new decentralised cities that we plan for the future. We need to create a better balance for our transport systems than we have in urban areas such as Sydney. At the present time they carry only one-way traffic, and with the type of development that we propose we will be able to balance these transport systems and therefore save money in the long  -run.  The land released at Woolloomooloo could easily be made into a park. We stress the fact that this area should be made into a park because it is needed. so 'badly in the centre of Sydney. This would .bear on the future plans for the development of the Woolloomooloo area. It should be a residential area but redeveloped on a ratio of dwellings to business premises similar to that which exists at present. 
This is an election vear and, as far as the Labor Party is concerned, the crisis in our cities and the future role of the ^Federal Government in relation to that crisis are major issues. It is a year in which 'we have had some irrelevant talk from toe 'Liberal.Country Party Government about decentralisation, but if it carries on a development such as that proposed in die Woolloomooloo area it is working against the policy of decentralisation. It is also a year in which a Minister from the Country Party put forward a proposal to build a Commonwealth office complex of a size and in a place which the Public Works Committee had the good sense to reject. This type of policy has to stop. But later we are to be told of a proposal for a development in the centre of Melbourne which will house not 15,000 public servants but in fact a proposed 20,000 public servants. This type of planning is utterly foolish planning. 
We are living in a day and age when over-centralisation in the cities has to stop. My visit to the United States of America recently has convinced me that if our cities are to remain civilised places in which to live all levels of government must give a lead. There are many areas in which the Commonwealth is already deeply involved in the form and functioning of our cities. Unlike other national governments, including those which have a federal constitution, this Government refuses to recognise or accept its responsibilities. Even on such an obvious matter as the building of a major office complex the Government sees its role in only the narrowest terms. The Commonwealth's proposal for the construction of an office block in Woolloomooloo is not leadership; it is just following the mistakes of others. The position in Melbourne is the same. There is a need for positive decentralisation policies. Commonwealth public servants will have to be the basis of many of our future cities. In this year of 1972 we should not be building huge office blocks to house 15,000 Commonwealth employees in the centre of Sydney and 20,000 Commonwealth employees in the centre of Melbourne. That is wasteful expenditure and poor planning. We on this side of the chamber are opposed to that type of development. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $1. 
As an instruction to the Government: 
To assist State public housing authorities to provide low cost housing and to reduce housing costs by - 
enabling publicland development commissions to be set up in co-operation with the States to acquire necessary land, hold it in public ownership, develop it and make it available on reasonable terms on a leasehold basis similar to Canberra prior to 1st January 1971; 
making grants and increased loans to State governments to increase construction of public housing to reduce any public housing backlog; 
making grants to permit public housing authorities to be responsible for (i) ensuring that electricity wiring is placed underground, (ii) tree planting and landscaping and (iii) community centres in public housing communities; 
reducing interest rates; and 
establishing uniformity of building codes, standards and practices. 
The blow that was struck by the Commonwealth Government to the home building industry in April 1970 was one that has taken a good deal of time to overcome. Building commencements are up 6 per cent this year on the same period last year. But if one compares them with commencements for the same period 2 years ago one finds that they are up by only 1 per cent. Taking into consideration that there has been a net increase in immigration of 300,000 and that over 200,000 marriages have taken place during this period, one will realise the record of the home building industry since 1970. In New South Wales the commencments were up 1.2 per cent this year on last year and 5.3 per cent down on 2 years ago. New South Wales is the most heavily populated State. There are many reasons why the housing sector has not increased in the manner which is necessary to catch up with the housing backlog. 
The Federal Government's policy has been to retain housing at a very low priority. In 1954-55 public housing expenditure represented 2.68 per cent of budgetary expenditure. In 1971-72, even including special loans that were made to try to stimulate the economy and including the new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement last year, the figure was only 1.82 per cent. Housing in both the public and the private sector is in great difficulty. The worst affected State is New South Wales. Land prices are spiralling, particularly in Sydney. In Sydney the average price of land is nearly $10,000 a block and in Melbourne it is nearly $8,000 a block. Interest rates are still high. There has been no reduction in interest rates by the biggest lenders - the savings banks. First mortgage loans are inadequate. Monthly repayments are too high. Few people are able to meet the repayments on the average house and land. In Sydney the cost of the average house and land is between $22,000 and $23,000. We want to take the cost of land out of the cost of land and dwelling so that more people will come within the financial sector than can afford to acquire a home. In Melbourne it is between $20,000 and $21,000. 
Growing numbers of young couples are unable to meet the 'deposit gap'. That is  the difference between the cost of land plus a house and the amount a borrower can obtain as a loan. That is why approximately 90,000 families are awaiting homes on housing commission lists throughout Australia. In New South Wales there are 40,000 alone, and 26,000 of them are in Sydney. The Housing Industry Association's survey published in September 1972 reveals: 
A reduction in Government dwelling and nondwelling contraction was a deliberate policy, announced in the 1971-72 Budget, when it was considered that restraint in Government expenditure was needed to help contain inflation in the economy. 
It went on to say: 
A more direct and immediate effect could have been obtained on the economy generally by stimulating the housing sector- by measures to reduce land prices through greater allocations for provision of essential services; by taxation and/ or direct subsidies to reduce effective interest rates on housing loans: by special allocations to assist lowerincome families to obtain homes. 
The home building industry of Australia needs an immediate stimulus, firstly, so that young couples can obtain housing and, secondly, to stimulate the economy. The housing industry and associated industries are the biggest employer of labour in Australia. 
In the few minutes available to me I would like to explain the Australian Labor Party's proposal. This is an election year and I think that we should put forward positive proposals so that members and people know what our proposals are. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the Australian Labor Party's urban land proposals. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
LABOR'S URBAN LAND PROPOSALS 
A Commonwealth Labor Government would encourage State Governments to retain their Crown lands in the public sector. When the land is released it should be on a leasehold basis. 
A Commonwealth Labor Government, in co-operation with the State and local governments would acquire land on the fringe of the provincial capital cities and country towns. Land could be administered by State Housing authorities, land allocated on need and/or ballot on leasehold or sale. 
Sites  for  new cities created from broad acres - After agreement between the Commonwealth and State Government or governments on proposed sites for a new city, legislation would bs enacted by the State Government as was the case in Murray Newtown (Land Acquisition) Act in South Australia. 
State Governments would acquire land and Commonwealth Government would provide the necessary finance. Land would remain leasehold on a similar basis to that prevailing in Canberra prior to 1st January 1971. The area would be developed by an authority similar to the National Capital Development Commission, which would include representatives of the Commonwealth, State and local governments. 
A Commonwealth Labor Government would make finance available to State Housing Author ties to acquire land for urban renewal. Land would remain leasehold. 
A statutory land authority would be established with powers to operate on similar lines to those of TAA to compete with the private sector and act as part of Labor's policy to reduce land prices. The authority to be known as the Land Development Commission. Its functions and details of operation are set out in the attached. 
LAND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION PREFACE 
The basis of a successful land use policy ls the ownership of land. A government can pass laws restricting the use of the land, but market pressures will win out in the end and cause a change in the law. Where appropriate, the government may resume land or they may buy it on the open market. 
Land prices are set on current usage and people's expectation of what land will be used for in the future. If a new railway or a new town is announced then land will go up in value. Government should buy it before it announces such policies. 
If a development proposal threatens an historic building or scenic headland, swift action is needed or else the proposal will be approved or the area or building destroyed. Government, therefore, needs the ability to enter into the land market as quickly and easily as any private land dealer. At the same time because public funds are used any government body must be accountable, particularly in a field as open to irregularities as the land market. 
PROPOSAL 
That a statutory corporation be established similar to TAA to obtain the land for 2 part purposes: 
To acquire the land for development, residential, industrial, commercial and recreational. Land acquired would be developed by another government authority or urban development authority (similar to the NCDC, or New Towns Commission in Britain). State Housing authorities, etc. where appropriate, would develop the land itself and allocate generally on a leasehold basis. 
To acquire land of national importance; for example, land for national parks, land on which historic buildings or building with special architectural merit; land which, if owned by the government, will affect the course of urban affairs. Above all, land along the coastline of Australia, especially the eastern coast: other areas of special concern - the Blue Mountains west of Sydney and the Dandenongs east of Melbourne, would be acquired so as to protect them for future generations from the present excessive subdivision. When possible, land of national importance would be handed over with proper safeguards to State governments, local authorities, National Trust, conservation groups, and other such bodies whose purposes are consistent with the Land Development Commission. 
-I thank the House. The first proposal deals with the question of trying to encourage the States to keep crown lands within the public domain. The second proposal seeks to enter into cooperation with the States to acquire land on the fringe of capital and provincial cities and country towns. The third wants to see the repetition of new sites for new cities by acquiring broad acres on a similar basis to the Murray Newtown (Land Acquisition) Act in South Australia. The fourth proposal is that a Labor government would make finance available to State housing authorities to acquire land for urban renewal. The fifth proposal is to set up a land commission. The other aspect that is an important part of Labor's housing proposals is that of the public housing sector. We would return to the Chifley Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, making money available to the States at 3 per cent interest. This housing would be for rental only. If public housing were purchased there would be a slightly higher interest rate. We would make special grants to the State housing authorities to meet all rent rebates to those unable to meet their rental' payments due to disability. We would grant the State housing authorities moneys to put electric light wires underground, undertake tree planting schemes for streets, retain nature areas and if they are not in an area we would help to develop them and we would help build community centres within public housing authority schemes. We want public housing communities to be communities and not just boxes for people to exist in because this Government is just not concerned in that regard. 
In regard to the private housing sector, even though record amounts of money are in the savings banks the Government still retains the first mortgage loan at $9,000. We will use our Commonwealth powers to make sure that the savings banks increase their first mortgage loan from $9,000 to at least $12,000. We will encourage them to reduce their interest rate. This is a very heavy social problem. We will really move into housing both in the public and private sectors to make sure that we develop our communities, whether they are on the  fringes of our capital cities or in country areas. We want to see these communities become communities in a heterogeneous society; we do not want any more homogeneous developments of public housing, whether it is on the fringe of our capital cities or whether it is part of our policy of decentralisation which we will carry out after December of this year. The Labor Party has a humane and progressive policy. It is about time that public housing and private housing were lifted in priority and did not finish at the bottom of the priority list as they have done for so many years under this Government. 
Basically tonight we have been discussing aspects of the problems of young people in acquiring a block of land and a dwelling to live in. Of course, the Australian Labor Party has put forward some progressive and positive proposals to try to alleviate these problems. We see clearly that never before have young people been exploited as much as they are today in the heavy repayments for land and usurous interest rates they have to pay in an effort to obtain shelter and to build a dwelling. 
I have given statistical information before and I will not repeat it now. The only place where statistical information is available on the movement in the price of land over a period of 20 years, is in the. report of the War Service Homes Division. Taking the period from 1950 to 1970 and comparing the price of land with average weekly earnings, we see that land prices in New South Wales rose  3i  times faster than the average weekly earnings. That was a conservative figure. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  read a speech to $10,000 in Sydney. The Labor Party wants to try to take the land component out of the cost of land and a dwelling. If this were, done home owners would not have to pay high prices for land. They would pay only land rental over a period of time. Labor would use a system similar to that which functioned in Canberra for something like 50 years prior to 1st January 1971. It was not good enough for this Government to continue that system of leasing land in Canberra. The system operated in 3 different ways. Land leases were, sold either on an unrestricted basis, a restricted basis or by way of group sales. The price at unrestricted sales was reduced from $4,500 in 1962 to $3,000 in May 1970. There was a one-third reduction in price from 1962 to 1970. During that same, period land prices in Sydney rose by something like 200 per cent. 
A block of land in Canberra before 1st January 1971 could be acquired for an average price of $900 at a restricted sale and $1,700 at group sales. Then, of course, the greed of the Treasury and the stupidity of this private enterprise Government changed the whole land system in Canberra. What has happened since? I seek the approval of the Committee to have incorporated in Hansard a table entitled Residential Block Auctions in the Australian Capital Territory, 1970 to 1972* prepared by the research service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. 

<graphic href="081131197210114_87_5.jpg"></graphic>

prepared by the Department of Housing and made available through the Minister, to show what wonderful achievements this Government has made. He read out statistical data. In the area where the honourable member for Mitchell lives, namely Blacktown, land prices have risen from 1969 to 1971- in 3 years- by 97 per cent. In Penrith, just west of where he resides, in 3 years land prices have risen by 140 per cent. Just south of where he lives, in Campbelltown, prices have increased in 3 years by 168 per cent. 
More money is being made by way of land speculation than in any other way in Australia. AH the Labor Party has suggested is that something be done about it. The average price of land and a dwelling in Sydney is between $22,000 and $23,000. Even if one can save $7,000 to $8,000 one then has to repay a $15,000 loan. At 8 per cent over 25 years the repayments would be $115 a month. If a person's repayments are. assessed at 25 per cent of his weekly earnings then he would have to earn between $110 and $120 a week to be eligible for such a loan. Yet, the average weekly income in Australia is about $100 a week. Seventy per cent of all wage earners earn less than the average weekly earnings. 
Let us examine the position of the man on less than the average weekly wage. I stated earlier that the New South Wales Housing Commission has 40,000 applicants on its waiting list, 26,000 of them being in Sydney alone. So it is a desperate position. The position of Melbourne is very similar to that of Sydney. The average price of land in Melbourne is $8,000 as compared 
-I thank the Committee. I do not have time to go into the table in detail. But if we examine the figures at the bottom of the table we can see that the average amount paid at restricted sales since 1970 in Canberra has increased by 465 per cent. At unrestricted sales it has increased by 1S1 per cent and at group sales by 334 per cent. This increase occurred under this free enterprise system. 
The Government does not want rational planning. I am proud that I am a socialist. So far as I am concerned we should adopt any progressive measure that is a step forward. I would like to give the Committee some of the findings that were made in the second report of the task force on the price of land conducted by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies. This very distinguished group was made up of Professor Gates of the University of Queensland, Barry Cartwright who is Director of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies and V. E. Jennings, of A. V. Jennings Industries (Aus.) Ltd, a company of very big building developers. What did they find? I would like to quote 2 of the recommendations. Firstly I would like to quote paragraph 1.14 on page 2 of the report which deals with public acquisition. This paragraph states: 
Public acquisition at conversion value was one of a series of measures recommended by the Task Force in the First Report (1.2(m)). At that time the Task Force felt that public acquisition at conversion value was a final expedient to be used if the 'basic programme' failed. As el result of further developments and deliberations, and in the light of the continuing increase in the price of raw land for residential purposes, the Task Force is now convinced- 
I stress that -  that any lasting solution to the problem of urban land prices must be based on a policy of public acquisition at conversion value. 
On the same page paragraph 1.16 states: 
The T,J:k Force recognises the innovatory nature of this measure. But unless a new approach to urban development is adopted as standard policy, the price of land in Australian cities will continue to rise at an unjustifiable pace with serious consequences for the quality of urban life. 
These are 2 of the recommendations of a task force which studied the price of land from one end of the country to the other. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  the young, brash, spoilt supporter of this conservative Government who has never ever known hardship, talks in glib terms about socialism. There has to be something done about the distribution of wealth in this nation. We have to stop exploiting young people. It is about time we gave young people a fair go. We as taxpayers have to make sure that we protect their interests and realise that in fact they are a good investment in the long term. This is the basic principle that honourable members opposite ought to start thinking about. Apparently it is good enough for the big land speculators to make millions of dollars from land capital appreciation. But surely the people have to have some faith in Australia. I am asking that the Commonwealth Government in co-operation with the States enter into the public acquisition of land when it has rural value, before it is rezoned into urban land, so that it can be developed in the interests of all the people of Australia and so that they can get a fair go. 
I involve myself in this debate mainly to speak on the broad principle of urban planning. I do so because for a number of years I have been critical on this side of the House of the mistakes of over-centralisation decisions being made by the Government. I have stated how the insurance companies of this country have increased their investments from $144m in 1961 to nearly $ 1,000m in March of this year. For every $1 spent on insurance companies, $4 has been spent on foreign investment. In regard to over-centralisation in the Sydney area I have given the examples of The Rocks area, Woolloomooloo, Kings Cross and the centra] business district of North Sydney. This puts a heavy burden on transport facilities which carry a one-way load. The transport system vehicles go out empty in the morning and return to the city loaded with workers. We took a very strong stand on the question of construction at Woolloomooloo. 
I want to make some comments about the construction of the communications tower on Black Mountain. I express my concern firstly because I do not think I can see attached to the report of the Public Works Committee an environmental impact statement. I notice that the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  is sitting on the front bench. On 24th May of this year he made a statement that where Commonwealth moneys were involved environmental impact statements would be made. Under questioning from me about whether or not the environmental impact statements would be made public the Minister stated quite coldly that they would not be. Following this matter up the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  in a question to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  which appears on page 1972 of Hansard of 27th September, asked about the environmental impact statements. The Prime Minister said: 
But I have said, and this might be the proper substitute, that attached to every Cabinet document must be a statement relating to the impact of matters concerning pollution and conservation. 1 took it that impact statements would be issued immediately decisions are announced. I will make certain, if there is any misunderstanding about the matter, that they are in fact issued. 
I understand that the Prime Minister gave a further reply to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in regard to impact statements. Whether the impact statements are limited statements or not, they should at least be attached to reports of this kind. Frankly, I do not accept the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister that only abridged Cabinet statements should be made and treated as impact statements. 
Open inquiries are conducted under the American system. I am aware that a Public Works Committee inquiry was held into the environmental aspect but I would like to know, with due respect to my colleagues on my side of the House who are members of the Committee and also to supporters of the Government who are members, what qualified environmentalist was on the Committee to give advice on the scientific evidence and to make his findings available. After all, the Public Works Committee is a public works committee. If we are to have environmental impact statements we want to see trained scientists in the field of ecology and the environment deal with these matters. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has drawn attention to the flora and fauna in the area. It so happens that I do not spend a great deal of time in Canberra. Nevertheless I have seen something of Black Mountain. It is a magnificent area, particularly the base of it and the Botanic Gardens which has eucalyptus manifera maculosa, a beautiful mass of trees which really enhance the beauty of that area. In fact, I would think that- 
As a matter of fact it is probably far more Australian than is the Leader of the House. If he had a little bit more respect for them- 
The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts interjects. He does a lot of talking about the environment but takes little action. It is about time we started to give some thought to the trees in this area, particularly the native trees. 
Certain groups in the community say that we need something to encourage tourism and that the construction of a tower, such as one that has been built somewhere else in the world - we are trying to copy or ape such a structure - will help to do this. Wc are told that people will visit the tower if we incorporate a restaurant in it. Only those who can afford to do so will be able to visit the tower because probably it will be very expensive. But we do not really know what pressures will be put on th; environment. I could not tell the House how many tourists visit Canberra or tha average number of cars that are likely to travel up Black Mountain. The exhaust fumes from these vehicles will probably have some effect on the flora and fauna in this area. We do not know these things but we should know them. The Minister is now trying to brief the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee. It is time that he got on his feet and told us what he thought about environmental impact statements. When I asked him whether he was going to make a further statement on this matter he said that no other statement would be made because the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had already covered the issue. If that indicates the limited attitude of this Government in regard to impact statements then honourable members opposite will hear a lot more about this from members on this side of the House. It is utter hypocrisy. Impact statements should not come from abridged Cabinet documents. There should be a thorough investigation into the arguments for and against proposals of this kind. We should know what the consequences will bc whether the decision is for or against a project. Arguments should be put forward by scientists. We want to know the views of the scientific people before decisions are made. These are important matters of principle. This Parliament should not bc: used as a rubber stamp for projects such as this as has happened in the past. I well recall that there was no discussion on the bridging finance which was made available for the Lake Pedder scheme. No environmental impact statements was made in this place even though we made available the bridging finance. It we had had an environ mental impact statement giving us the arguments for and against that project honourable members might have been aware of the significance of the problems that were involved. 
I am critical of the Government for not having made an impact statement. I want more detail from the Government on its attitude to making available Commonwealth money for projects which destroy the natural environment, particularly the proposal in regard to the Black Mountain area It is about time that more detail was mad: available to members of this Parliament, [f this is not forthcoming in the future this Government will certainly hear a' great deal more from members on this side, at least until December. After December there will be a new approach to matters of this kind. It will take a while to get it moving but we hope that in regard to environmental aspects we will make available all the arguments, we will make public any documents which are available and we will make our decisions known. We will not keep them secret as this Government has been doing for so long. 

 Mr KELLY (Wakefield)' (10.33)- It is worth pointing out that the proposal to erect a tower on Black Mountain was an unusual reference to the Public Works Committee, as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as a member of the Committee would remember, in that we were asked to recommend to the Government a particular design. The Government had not taken a firm stand on a plan. It referred the matter to the Public Works Committee and it was the Committee's responsibility to recommend a design. The Labor Party representatives on that Committee were the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and  Senator Poyser.  The other members of the Committee were the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  myself and, for some of the time,  Senator Webster. 
I point out that there was no dissenting voice in the. Committee's decision. I pay a tribute to my Labor colleagues on the Public Works Committee who always with complete objectivity have carried out their duty, completely divorced from party politics. They heard the evidence and examined the matter in great detail. The honourable, member for Hunter, the honourable member for Hughes and  Senator Poyser  are not likely to be swept away by eloquence and I can think of nobody who would be better fitted to weight objectively the evidence put forward on this proposal. 
What is this project? The proposal is to put on top of Black Mountain a 640 feet high tower. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  was notable for his absence from the Committee when he had the opportunity to spell out what he thought about the matter instead of sitting in an uncomfortable, posture with one leg on either side of the fence. He had an opportunity to say what he thought but he did not take it. Now he says that it is wrong to have what he called 'a pagan symbol' 640 feet high on top of Black Mountain. Exactly what a pagan symbol is I am not sure because I am a bit weak on classical history. However, we. received evidence on the towers at present located on Black Mountain. I think the honourable member said there was a 200 feet high tower on it. There are 2 towers, the biggest being 511 feet high. The erection of a building and tower 640 feet high will mean that the other 2 will be taken away. It also means that the tower on Red Hill which the environmentalists have been objecting to will be removed. It should be pointed out that the Postmaster-General's Department found that it was impossible to get effective television signals from anywhere, but the top of Black Mountain. 
It is nonsense to say that the tower should be placed on top of Crace. This suggestion was examined by the technical people from the Post Office and they found that it would be impossible to implement. That was the proposition which faced the members of the Public Works Committee. The Committee heard detailed evidence from the environmentalists. We had environment running out of our ears before the hearing concluded. All members of the Committee had every opportunity to examine the witnesses in great detail. We heard evidence on the environment over a period of 3 days. I repeat that when the Committee came to a decision there was not one dissenting voice from the honourable member for Hughes, the honourable member for Hunter,  Senator Poyser,  nor, I am proud to say, from myself, the honourable member for Maranoa or the honourable member for Balaclava. The members of the Committee weighed up the evidence as best they could. They weighed up the environmental problems and they weighed up the recommendations of the National Capital Development Commission. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory said that the Commission fought tooth and nail against this proposal. What did the Commission do? The Commission said - and this was spelt out without any doubt in evidence given in public: 'We will go along with a concrete tower on Black Mountain. We will go along with the open viewing platform. We will go along with the closed platform but we draw the line at the revolving restaurant' The provision of the restaurant meant an additional 15 feet of enclosed space in a height of 640 feet. If honourable members look at the different models of the proposal they will have grave difficulty in differentiating between the model which has the revolving restaurant and those that do not have it. The NCDC did not fight tooth and nail against the total proposition. It fought only the proposal for a revolving restaurant. I could not see the difference in the 2 plans. It is true that my aesthetic senses would not be as brightly polished as those of some of the more academic members of the community. But I look at the proposal with a practised eye and I really cannot see the difference. It is nonsense for the member for the Australian Capital Territory to say that the NCDC fought the proposal tooth and nail. It agreed to it when it was to be the same height, almost the same width, with a covered viewing platform and with an open viewing platform, but it could not stomach the revolving restaurant. It may be that the NCDC has a different way of 100k.ing at things. I would think that the difference between the 2 proposals was minute from an aesthetic point of view. 
Is it the proper function of the Post Office to behave in a businesslike fashion and try to recover costs? We were told in public evidence that the Post Office would expect to amortise the cost of this structure within 20 years if these public facilities were incorporated. It seems to me quite unreasonable to ask the Post Office to behave in a businesslike fashion and then to criticise it for doing exactly what everybody was telling it to do. 
It is worth pointing out that the decision to make Black Mountain a tourist area was made 10 years ago when a road was built up the mountain. The road will not be widened under this project. The road was built to enable tourists to go to the top of the mountain to see the view. From then on the mountain was to be a tourist attraction. Under this proposition no greater amount of land will be alienated from the Black Mountain area than at present. I see that the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  is present in the chamber. I think I have done him a great injustice because indeed he was present when we inspected the area. I seem to remember his very pungent comments about the quality of Black Mountain. I think they were a tribute to his great common sense. 
The proposition that this project will spoil the mountain is ridiculous. A road to the top of the mountain was there before. It is there now along with 2 towers on the mountain. It was known, and all the projections showed quite clearly, that with the escalation of tourist traffic that has occurred in the past and which will occur in the future there has to be some traffic control at the bottom of the mountain. This control will be there whether the big tower is built or whether the present look out remains. I can understand the point of view of the environmentalists who see that there is a problem. But I would repeat that the pretty hardheaded, sensible members of the Public Works Committee weighed up the evidence to the best of their ability. Let us come back to this question of limited ability. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was pretty scathing in his comments about the qualifications of members of the Committee had which enabled them to weigh up the evidence on this sort of proposal. For his edification, let me point out that I have been a member of the South Australian State Conservation Committee for 17 years. I constructed the first contour banks that were ever built in South Australia. I may not be much of an orator, but when it comes to conserving the resources of my own property and, indeed, my own district, I would believe that my experience would be almost equal to the remarkable experience of the honourable member for Reid, who I do not think has done anything very much. 
In the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  this Bill is the most important legislation to be introduced into Parliament in the post-war years. It is an important Bill and we are pleased that the Government has at last come to its senses. It is also a very sad moment for Australia because there have been 23 years of lost time. I do not want t harp on it for more than a moment. However, if one reads reports such as the Commonwealth Housing Commission's report on post-war housing needs dated 25th August 1944, tabled in the Parliament on 18th September 1945 - it has more than 130 pages on regional development - or the 1949 report on regional development in Australia, both products of the Labor Government's Department of Post-War Reconstruction, one can see what might have been. If the proposed authority had any relevance at all it could produce a Mark II version of the 1944 document which so clearly set out the real issues involved. Such a programme would take a couple more years. However, in the meantime we cannot afford to do nothing.  Mr John  Dedman, the Minister for Post-War Reconstruction, said in June 1948: 
Now that all the factories built in wartime have in some way been disposed of the decentralisation move must not stop. If we are to develop to the full a country the size of Australia there should be the greatest possible balance in the distribution of population. We are looking to increasing our population by large scale immigration. This will require new secondary industry to provide employment opportunities. As far as possible we want those employment opportunities to be provided by developing the relatively smaller industrial centres rather than by continued development of Sydney and Melbourne. 
The Liberal Government which came to power in 1949 adopted Labor's immigration programme but not the associated regional development and decentralisation programme of the Department of Postwar Reconstruction. It allowed and even encouraged the return of industry to the big cities. Chaos in the cities of Sydney and Melbourne is the result. In the last 2 months of the Government's death throes the consequences of its lack of action can be seen. From the many statements that the Prime Minister has made recently it is clear that he could not have possibly found the vision necessary to set up even the modest effort proposed. It was forced on him by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  a man of somewhat greater vision. However, he also can see only part of the picture. He and his Party have to examine their mistakes of over-centralisttion in our capital cities in the past 23 years. They have permitted the rural population to decline from 31 per cent to 14 per cent in the period of office of Liberal and Country Party governments. 
Much of the rural population has flocked to the capital cities and has aggravated an already over-crowded situation. This Bill is a full embracing of halfbaked policies and it shows the marks of excessive haste. The Prime Minister has said: 'We are concerned with national objectives in urban and regional development.' I ask: What national objectives? The Prime Minister read his script but really did not understand what he was saying. He would not know an urban or regional area or a national objective if he saw one. Even with the noble efforts of the Deputy Prime Minister national objectives are nowhere in sight. Otherwise we would see in the brief of the authority or as components of the Government's regional development planning essential policies in respect of population, development and conservation of our natural resources, industrial growth, tariffs, rationalisation of transport in Australia and the use of environmental impact assessments as a tool of national planning and government decision making. Of course, none of these exists after 23 years of piecemeal policy making with no vision or idealism. 
We have a Government that acts only when negative feedback occurs. It tries to copy a Labor Party policy but emasculates it so that it will not work. It deals in window dressing. It might look all right on the surface. The clothes may be all right but it cannot function any more. In the last month or so we have been blinded by a flurry of Government window dressing trying to con the country into giving the Government another 3 years of incompetent leadership. However, the people will not be had this time. Although the Prime Minister is backed by a bureaucracy of more than 350,000 people he cannot make a competent decision. He now mouths a policy forced on him by the Country Party and about which he has no real understanding. 
The Opposition opposes the Bill on the grounds that the authority to be created has no real teeth, no real muscle to deal with the problems involved. I point out that Professor Henderson did not need any legislation to advise on poverty. Professor Borrie did not need any legislation to advise on population. The Committee inquiring into repatriation benefits did not require any legislation.  Mr Justice  Asprey did not need any legislation for his inquiry into taxation. Accordingly I move: 
That all words after' That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted because in its present form, it creates a mere investigating and advisory body which will have no authority: 
to cope with the problems of urban and regional development, 
to deal with the continuing growth of capital cities and regional centres and to integrate plans for transportation and land use, 
to co-ordinate the allocation of resources which affect urban and regional development, and 
to implement positive policies to create new forms of urban living to overcome the chaos of our cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne'. 
The Labor Party feels that in the case of regional development a recommending authority is just not enough. Such an authority can recommend to the Prime Minister that such and such a city be developed. However, unless it can marshal the necessary resources such a policy will not work; it will be ineffective. The resources necessary to make such a policy work include those relating to population, transportation, land use, industrial and tariff policies, and development and conservation policies. Unless all these are marshalled as part of a national effort, nothing will happen. For example, over-development of the inner areas of Melbourne and Sydney will continue and will counteract any development that may occur in regional areas. We are already familiar with that position. We have seen it over and over again. The Government is continuing to build its own centres at Woolloomooloo in Sydney to house 15,000 public employees, and in Melbourne to house 20,000 public employees. Over-building by insurance companies and foreign investors in the central business districts has taken place. It will all counteract further regional development. 
A key example I would like to develop in detail is population policy. In recommending to the House that it accepts this Bill the Prime Minister has hanged himself with his own words. Clearly he has not considered the institution of a population policy in this country. He said: 
The trend to increasing concentration is already evident and causing concern. If no action is taken, the problem will become more acute as our population grows from 13 million to possibly 22 million over the balance of the century. 
The Prime Minister is assuming a blind continuation of present population nonpolicies and the continuation of large scale immigration. He does not ever seem to realise that his own Department of Immigration is now cutting back severely on immigration because of the present unemployment situation. Our natural increase in population during the last 23 years has been 1.1 per cent. Immigration has added another 0.8 per cent. As a result we have had an overall increase of 1.9 per cent over the period of the present Government's administration. With a 1.1 per cent growth rate our population would be 17.3 million at the end of the centry. With a growth rate of 1.9 per cent it would be 23 million by the end of the century - a difference of 6 million or almost the population of the entire country at the end of 1945. 
With population increasing at 2 per cent annually and with no policies for constructive decentralisation, along the lines suggested by the Department of Post-War Reconstruction in 1945, the result bad to be chaos. It is chaos at present, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne. The great percentage of our migrants have flocked to our 2 major cities - Sydney and Melbourne. 
There have been no real employment opportunities created elsewhere in the country areas. The result of the much too rapid growth of our 2 large cities should be clear to all. The Australian Education Council estimates in the nation-wide survey on education needs that the States are $ 1,443m short of the required finance for the years 1971 to 1975. It will cost Sydney alone $1,00Om to catch up on its sewerage scheme - and then only to the primary treatment stage. That estimate is based on present day costs, but the sewerage scheme will take 10 years to construct so one can imagine what the inflationary trend will be during that time. So we know what the pressures are. In Sydney alone the sewerage work that is being undertaken will not solve any of the major pollution problems on Sydney's beaches. The Melbourne figure is $700m. Water and sewerage authorities in Sydney are spending 53c in every $1 in servicing their debts. The equivalent figure in Melbourne is 58c in the dollar. In the last 20 years the interest on debts incurred by local government authorities throughout Australia has increased by nearly 2,000 per cent, while the interest on the debts of semi-government authorities has increased by 2,700 per cent. The Commonwealth, the body which is responsible foi immigration, has an internal debt which has remained nearly static during this period. It has brought migrants into the country and thrown the pressure on to the States, local authorities and semi-government authorities, and of course it has wiped its hands. 
There are 90,000 families on the housing commission waiting lists for homes in Australia. This includes 26,000 in Sydney alone. The lack of services and cultural facilities in the newer areas of Sydney and Melbourne is a scandal. When I say the newer areas 1 mean the fringe areas where I live and where the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  lives. It is in these areas that many of our migrants live. The cost of land has risen astronomically in the past few years. Today the average block in Melbourne sells for nearly $8,000 and in Sydney it sells at $10,000. Rectifying the past neglect will take a great deal of money, time, new cities and system cities and above all a great slow down in the growth rate of Sydney and Melbourne. I mention Sydney and Melbourne because this is where the crisis exists now. It will follow in our other capital cities unless the trend is altered. It will take time for new cities to get off the ground. Our unemployment as present is much too high, and migrants suffer most from this unemployment. Any reasonable man would advocate a reduction in our migrant intake to give the appropriate authorities the breathing space necessary to begin to give a fair deal to those migrants already here and to get regional development off the ground. 
All this is aside from the more important facts about the development of long term population and resources policy in Australia. We have no population and resources policy. Since the Second World War the New Towns Commission in the United Kingdom has been able to attract 1 million people to its planned communities. I stress that in the United Kingdom, with all its enormous resources, the authorities have been able to attract only 1 million people to their new cities. If we can put 1 million people into our new cities in regional areas in Australia by the end of the century we will be making real progress. After all the position has been the reverse under the present Government. The population of the rural areas has decreased from 31 per cent of the national population to 14 per cent. We will have a great struggle to get 1 million people out of the metropolitan areas. But let us deal with the facts as we see them. All those not living in regional areas will live in or near the over-expanding metropolitan areas. At least under Labor these will be planned communities and not like the sprawl of unplanned Sydney and Melbourne or our other capital or provincial cities. 
If the population increases by 1.1 per cent annually until the year 2000 and we put 1 million people in new cities and regional areas we will have 3.3 million people left who will have to live in the expanded large cities and system cities. If the population grows at the rate of 1.9 per cent per annum as it is at present, and we still put 1 million people into our new cities, we will have to put 9 million people into our expanded old cities. If, as the Prime Minister said, our population increases by 9 million by the end of the century and we put 1 million people into our new cities and regional areas, we will have to put the other 8 million into our existing cities. We can imagine what the chaos will be if we have a continuation of this Government's policy. The difference between the first 2 projections I made, one being 3 times the other, will have a very big impact on the planning of the old cities and the quality of life for people in them. Still the Prime Minister merely says that the population might grow to 22 million by the year 2000, without recognising the impact on the old large Australian cities and on the development of our new ones. 
I use this example to illustrate why population policy is a key component of national planning towards decentralisation. I could similarly talk about transportation. The integration of transport planning and land use planning is a key component of urban development and regional planning. This means such things as the development of a real loading balance in our public transport systems in our larger cities - Sydney and Melbourne - and an end to the intense development of the central business district of the cities. The Government has been responsible for the overbuilding of the centre of Sydney and Melbourne. The planning would include the use of transportation in service corridors as a key way to develop new cities. Similarly, another key component of regional planning is employment - jobs of all kinds. The Government must act to bring jobs to the new cities by the location of sections of the Public Service there and by building knowledge industries there, and by taxation incentives to encourage industries to go to new areas. 
The Government must approach decentralisation and regional development in in integrated way. A department which can be involved in national planning and the allocation of national resources is essential. The National Urban and Regional Development Authority proposed by the Prime Minister will not have this kind of support in Cabinet to ensure that the country's resources are really joined to achieve the stated goals. However, authorities with comprehensive power would be highly appropriate for the planning and integrated development of each individual site chosen for selective decentralisation. They will be able to ensure the widest use of the natural resources present and would be accountable for the presentation of environmental impact statements on the departments. However, behind them they will require national planning to ensure that employment, houses, recreational and cultural facilities, transport and other key factors are provided. Only government departments can do this. All that the authorities will be able to do is to design the locations on the ground and ensure that, by design, these cities are livable ones of the highest environmental quality. 
So much for the Prime Minister's concern for national objectives. He has merely created another agency of government which will spend most of its time and energy crying in the wilderness for the backing it deserves from Cabinet Ministers and public servants. If the Prime Minister gets his way and this emasculated advisory body is established, it is not possible to see how it will receive any significant hearing from anybody, least of all from the Commonwealth Treasury. In the past, the Treasury has been a major opponent of decentralisation, particularly because of its very negative attitude to the spending of money on high quality inter-city, as well as intra-city, public transport systems. Without this, no policy of decentralisation has any hope of getting off the ground. 
Unless we have comprehensive planning at the highest level, we will continue to get policies counter to the aims of regional development practised by other arms of government. For example, investment in transport - I give airports as an example - will not be sensitive to regional development priorities. Public works, such as office blocks, will continue to be built in the central business districts of our major urban areas, just as they are at present. I have already given an example of this. Cabinet members will be pressing for mutually incompatible policies, just as they are at present in New South Wales where one Minister is pressing for office blocks in the central business district of Sydney - he wants to build a third State office block in the centre of Sydney - while the Minister for Decentralisation wants to develop Bathurst-Orange as a major regional centre. One counteracts the other. 
I refer next to the aspect of timing, which was referred to by the Prime Minister. He actually believes that this authority can report to him by June 1973 on 'matters relating to urban and regional development during the 5 years period thereafter'. He does say, mercifully for the National Urban and Regional Development Authority, that he does not expect a final report by then but rather 'the first statements of an active programme'. The elegant Commonwealth Housing Commission report of 1944, to which I referred earlier, took 2 years to complete. Such an inquiry should be carried out again. The Authority would take at least that time if it were to report in a significant way. Why then was such an absurdly short period of time insisted upon? 
Haste is everywhere to be seen in this measure, not only in the proposed time for preparation of the first report. Twentyone of the 27 clauses in the Bill are simply lifted from the National Capital Development Commission Act. Imagine  -  21 of the 27 clauses of this Bill have been lifted out of an Act that already exists and placed in another piece of legislation which has come before the Parliament. No-one disputes that the National Capital Development Commission has operated with some distinction in Canberra. However, in Canberra things are different. The Commonwealth owns the land and its legislative power is supreme. But nobody could say that, for example, the public transport system of Canberra is to be admired. If anything is needed in and between our new cities it is an efficient public transport system. We do not have that in Canberra. Canberra has an atrocious public transport system and this criticism must be levelled at the appropriate authority. 
Outside Canberra, things are different. Urban problems are more complex. Political skill and co-operation with the appropriate authorities will be needed in order to get things done. There are State and local governments and dozens of authorities involved in urban affairs and regional planning. We in the Australian Labor Party believe that, in the early stages, the Commonwealth involvement should be kept under the close supervision of the Commonwealth Government. There will need to be intense Commonwealth activity to get new cities and system cities off the ground, but cooperation with State and local government authorities is needed at all times in this venture. This intense activity is much more possible in government departments than in a statutory authority. 
The idea inherent in this Bill is that the Commonwealth activity will be carried out by a sort of modified NCDC. We reject this idea. Our policy is clear. After the elections, we will create a department of urban affairs and allow NURDA to wither on the vine. We have no intention of completely denuding the NCDC of its very competent staff just to do a piece of window dressing by setting up a body which will have no real teeth or muscle. The experience of the NCDC will be invaluable in the various stages of Commonwealth involvement in urban affairs; but, as I have pointed out, the problems of regional development and decentralisation are much greater than building on Commonwealth land an elegant national capital filled with public servants. We need national planning in the total sense. Statutory authorities have their place, but only in the designing and carrying out of a brief to which national resources are already committed. Besides the NCDC, the Snowy Mountains Authority is a good example which shows not only the good points but also the real limits of a statutory authority. Such an authority may be able to plan, but it does not have the political muscle to fight its cause in the Cabinet room. 
What will the Labor Party do? As I said, we will let this National Urban and Regional Development Authority wither on the vine. We will set up a department of urban affairs and regional development to marshal national resources for the building of new cities and system cities. Our approach will involve working on 2 major fronts, just as was recommended in the recent report on new cities by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies. We will work intensively with State and local authorities, but we will not allow State rights to work against the overall national interest. Earlier, I indicated that most Australians added to the population, irrespective of what we do, will be in or near our major cities. This is a consequence of 23 years of lost time and the chances which this Government has continued to lose and to waste. We will build system cities of high quality for these people near our existing cities. A system city is one similar to the centres at Belconnen and Woden in Canberra. We will upgrade the quality of life of people already living on the outer city fringes, where some very angry people live today. They have every right to be angry at the low quality of life in these areas. 
We will embark on a national plan to build new cities in our growth service corridors. Each person we put in them will be one person less to add to the urban chaos which will occur in Sydney and Melbourne unless we plan correctly. We will progressively cut back on immigration to help us get on with the job of solving the problems of the cities. We will invest heavily in intra-city and inter-city transport systems to encourage the orderly development of cities, both system cities and new cities in regional areas. We will begin to develop a series of 'service corridors' between major cities, such as Melbourne-Sydney, SydneyBrisbane, Sydney - Bathurst - Orange, Melbourne-Ballarat-Adelaide, Melbourne-La Trobe Valley and Perth-Bunbury-Albany. These service corridors will carry transport systems, power and telecommunications amongst other things. They will involve the careful integration of land use planning with transportation planning. 
We will ensure that all the necessary components of government planning, such as transportation, land use, housing, industry, tariff and population planning and environmental impact assessment, are joined in the national effort to achieve our goals. (Extension of time granted) We know we can do it. I have spoken long and often on this subject. Our record on this subject is well known to this House and to the Australian people. A Labor government will establish a department of urban affairs, the main function of which will be to coordinate the allocation of resources for the development of urban areas in Australia. The department, which will have both technical and research staff, will integrate the activities of such bodies as the Bureau of Transport Economics, the Bureau of Roads, the Departments of Shipping and Transport, Interior, Works, Environment, Natural Resources, Primary and Secondary Industry, Civil Aviation and others insofar as they affect urban development. The urban affairs department will assist the establishment of planning authorities in each State to control our public resources devoted to the development of urban areas. 
In co-operation with the States we will identify a number of sites for new cities and proceed with their development in cooperation with the relevant States and with private enterprise to provide effective decentralisation of development, to arrest the depopulation of the countryside and to slow up the growth of our major cities. Our policy is to improve and develop public transport services, in particular to ensure that a proper balance is maintained between public and private transport in urban areas. We will encourage the States to retain all land now vested in public ownership and ensure that when it is developed it is on a leasehold basis. We will set up a land development commission in co-operation with the States to purchase key areas on the fringes of our capital and provincial cities which will be allotted on a leasehold basis - not only land for cities but also land for national parks, historic sites and other special purposes. All new land in urban areas, especially on the fringes of our larger cties, would be acquired by a public authority before it is rezoned from nonurban to urban and developed by an authority similar to the National Capital Development Commission, having the power to hold the land in public ownership and to develop it on a leasehold basis similar to that practised in Canberra prior to 1st January 1971. 
A Commonwealth Labor government will enter into arrangements with the States to provide finance and technical assistance for such a development commission, which would be a statutory authority. Finally, we will use environment impact assessments and environment impact statements to ensure that all this is done in the best interests of the Australian environment and the Australian people. The Prime Minister's statement is at least a recognition of 2 things: Firstly, that the Government has failed miserably in this field and, secondly, that the policies fought for for so long by the Leader of my Party, by me and by so many members on this side of the House have had some impact on the other side. NURDA is not the answer to our problem. I ask the House to support the amendment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is the amendment seconded? 
I have a personal explanation to make. 
Yes. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has misrepresented me so many times that I think the House will have to be patient. In the first place the Minister misrepresented me on the question of the allocation of land on the basis of need and according to ballot. Might I say on the question of need that even the Department of the Interior allocates houses according to need in the Australian Capital Territory and that in the States housing commissions allocate houses according to need. It is nothing new in this world. So I do not want any confusion from any smokescreen created by the Minister. The Minister is either dishonest or ill-informed by his advisers who sit in the corner of the chamber. So that there will be no confusion about the policy of the Australian Labor Party on land, let me state that the idea of free land was never suggested. I incorporated in Hansard at pages 2436 and 2437 on 11th October 1972 our total policy on land. One can see that in no part of that policy is there any suggestion about free land. 
The Minister further misrepresented me when he asked where are we to get the revenue from. We will get the revenue from land rental under a policy similar to that followed by this Government in the Australian Capital Territory prior to 1st January 1971. Since that time, of course, land has increased- 
I was questioned by the Minister about this. Confusion was created about how the money would be raised. The money would be raised, as I said, by land rental. 
As well as making a personal explanation in respect of what the Minister for Housing said on 11th October I had incorporated in Hansard the complete policy of the Australian Labor Party on land and I pointed out to the Minister-- 
I know what my freedoms and rights are, and I do not want there to be anything that may be misconstrued. I believe that I have the right to clear up any confusion in regard to the policy of the Labor Party. If honourable members examine the Hansard report of the debate on the estimates for the Department of Housing on 11th October, they will note that I made it perfectly clear on that day- 
I am talking about 11th October. The Secretary of the Department of Housing had in his possession as from 6th October a complete statement of the Labor Party's proposals on land and the debate was not held until 11th October. No accusation was made in the debate because the Minister for Housing knew that the word 'free' was never used in that document. Let us clear that point up. The other aspects where the Minister for Customs and Excise has misrepresented my Party - I have the right to clarify this as I am the national spokesman for the Labor Party- 
I have the right bacau; : the Minister said that the Labor Party- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Reid has the right to make a personal explanation if he feels that he has been misrepresented. He does not have the right to make a personal explanation on the matter of Labor Party policy being misrepresented, even if he is that Party's spokesman in a particular field. 
I am the person responsible for this matter on behalf of the Labo 
Party. The Minister said that the Labor Party identified a site for decentralisation development The Labor Party has not identified any site except theAlburyWodonga centre. No other centres have been identified by the Labor Party for decentralisation development. That was another mis-statement by the Minister. 
Because the time left in this parliamentary session is limited there are certain things that have to be said, and the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  has agreed to show me some leniency to allow me to make certain comments on the third reading of the Bill. I could have done this in the Committee stage. Twentyone clauses of this Bill out of 27 have been taken from the National Capital Development Commission Act and consequently there has not been a great deal of thought put into this legislation. The only clause of the Bill that has any significance is clause 12 (1.) (a) which reads: 
for the purpose of assisting the Government of the Commonwealth in the consideration by the Government of the grant of financial assistance by the Parliament to a State in connexion with urban or regional development, including the terms and conditions on which that assistance might be granted by the Parliament. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that this proposed Authority would have all the powers that were necesary to cope with urban affairs and regional development. The Opposition has argued that there has been no real planning and control of urban affairs and regional development and that for years there has been overcentralisation by this Government in urban affairs. By that I mean the overdevelopment of our major cities. 
Replying to questions outside the House, the Prime Minister stated that the Government's attitude was to have a system of sub-metropolitan centres 20 miles or 60 miles from the centre of the city - on another occasion he said 40 or 50 miles from the city - as well as in regional areas. On the other hand the Australian Country Party has distributed 100,000 pamphlets throughout the nation emphasising the development of regional areas only and ignoring completely any real development of the urban areas in our main cities.We have consistently argued for years that the only way to achieve rational planning for urban development and regional development is to co-ordinate the resources of Commonwealth departments such as the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads. How can any authority such as the one that is proposed in this legislation make decisions on the intricate problems affecting urban affairs and regional development if it is to have no say in the allocation of transportation funds? 
Let me refer to the development of road systems. An investment of $ 1,000m is to be involved in freeway distributors constructed in the inner areas of Sydney such as the Warringah Expressway, the north-west distributor and the western distributor. It has been proven that these types of distributors do not solve the traffic problems faced by cities and urban areas. Such expenditure is a misallocation of funds. It would be much better to use the funds to introduce a rapid transport system in urban areas and to create regional centres in outlying areas to take the pressure off the central business areas. It would be much better to prevent the over-building by insurance companies and foreign investors of office blocks in central business districts in the capital cities which is being permitted by this Government. The Government has the power and the authority to guide this type of investment. What power will the proposed authority have to allocate funds? What control will it have? 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has climbed on to the political bandwagon in an endeavour to misguide the people in regard to the Labor Party's attitude. We have said that this legislation in no way solves the problems of urban planning or regional development. We have consistently argued that the only way in which this can be done is to tackle the problems through a department of urban affairs which will co-ordinate the allocation of resources. I have no doubt that in the future sub-system centres in and around metropolitan areas will be developed under an authority similar to the National Capital Development Commission as well as regional centres away from the major cities. The NCDC has the experience and the knowhow to do such work but it does not have a knowledge of the intricate details of the problems which affect our great cities. There should be a co-ordination within the Cabinet itself in the allocation of resources. 
We should be examining the possibility of, introducing in urban districts a rapid trans-, port system. We should not continue to build government offices in the central business districts of our capital cities. The Department of the Interior or the Department of Works should not be involved in the expenditure of $50m to $60m to construct buildings in Woolloomooloo or in the expenditure of $6Dm or $70m to develop, areas in the central business district of Melbourne. This is the responsibility of the Cabinet. The Cabinet must decide where, in view of the natural resources available, our future cities will be located after, scientific evaluation. There has to be coordination between primary and secondary industry. The authority that is determining the location of a second international airport for Sydney is the Department of Civil Aviation. In what way has there been overall planning in this matter and how does this legislation affect it. A second airport will have a great bearing on the growth of the area in which it is located. 
These are the sorts of things we have been trying to draw to the attention of the House, but the Minister has confused the situation. This legislation is only window dressing on the part of the Government. It is an eleventh hour effort to try to assure the people that the Government is doing something, but we know that this Government does not intend to do anything about this. For instance the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was so well briefed that when he was asked at a Press conference after his first announcement of NURDA in the House what a sub-system centre was he said that it was a city like Belconnen or Gove. After the Prime Minister announced that legislation would be introduced on urban development I asked him whether the Government would take some decision on the over-development of office buildings by insurance companies and foreign investors in the central business districts of Sydney, Melbourne and other capital cities and also, the building of government office blocks in those areas. I asked him whether the continued erection of office blocks would counteract any development in regional areas. He said that the problem of the cities is a State responsibility. 
If that is the attitude of the Government then I cannot see any authority which the Government proposes to set up solving the problems which face our cities. Unless, the Federal Government determines the allocation of resources for urban roads, for urban transport and the construction of office blocks by insurance companies and foreign investors in the cities, then there will be no real solution to growing city problems. We have to create a balance within our transport systems, within our cities and in our transport corridors between our capital cities. Unless we develop our transport corridors or what are called the service corridors and create our regional areas along the service corridors we will have no chance at all of achieving regional decentralisation. The Commonwealth, particularly the Treasury, has been one of the major opponents to any real decentralisation and this has been going on for 20-odd years. There is an over-concentration of power in the central sphere; there have been no decisions on the allocation of resources. Our argument is that the Government, which has made an eleventh hour stand, should have some positive policy. We do not want to hear any political windbags. We do not want to have any window dress-&gt; ing. We want to hear positive policies. Until such time as this Government announces positive policies we will oppose its negative attitude. 
In these dying moments of the 27th Parliament I know that many of us think of the honourable members from both sides of the House who are leaving the Parliament. On this side of the House they include honourable members such as the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths).  I have had a long association with these members. I know that they must be gravely concerned about leaving this Parliament. One has a certain sorrow when one has to make a decision to end one's public representation. Those 3 men stood for something for which members on the other side of the House have not stood, but that has not been mentioned tonight. I refer to the question of our involvement in the war in Vietnam. This matter has not been discussed to any great extent in this country because we have not a great involvement in Vietnam at this period, although one must recognise that we still have some commitment in that country. 
We first became involved in the Vietnam conflict in 1962 when we sent military advisers to that country. We sent full military forces in May 1965. In this day and age of 1972 we still have military commitments in that country. There has not been even a recognition by this righteous Government of those people in Vietnam against whom it has committed crimes year after year. Not one representative of the Australian Government has given recognition to these people, with the exception of the late  Senator Hannaford.  Only on one occasion did the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is at the table, ever question the policy of his Government. He did so when he was out of the Ministry writing an article for the Melbourne Herald'. With those exceptions, not one member of this Government in the Federal Parliament - either from the Senate or from the House of Representatives - and not one member of any Liberal State Government in either the Upper or the Lower House has ever questioned whether Australia's policies in relation to Vietnam have been wrong. 
Yet during that period of time the United States Senate - both the Republicans and the Democrats - voted by an overwhelming majority that the policies of the United States Government in Vietnam were wrong and that their troops should be withdrawn. They determined that they wanted to end that conflict. But never has this Government had the moral courage even to try to do so, because it was the moral decay of this Government that caused it to take this immoral action in the first place. The Government involved itself in this war as a cheap insurance policy because it thought that if we involved ourselves and later were threatened the United States in turn would come to our aid. That was the cynicism behind the Government's policy. Even though there were men of military age on the Government side of the Parliament it continued to conscript young men to the forces in Vietnam. The result was that some 500 young men died, 250 or approximately 50 per cent of whom were conscripts. 
The United States is trying to save face and is trying to bring about a peace settlement. In fact, it was revealed on the news tonight that North Vietnam has met and agreed with the United States that there would be a ceasefire, but those elements who represent the Government in South Vietnam were not prepared to meet the conditions set down by the United States. The United States could have put forward the same sort of proposals back in 1968. Although it has done so now, it is 50,000 United States lives too late, at least 1 million Vietnamese lives too late, and nearly 500 young Australian lives too late. This shows the hypocrisy of this Government. In this Government moral decay has set in. This is why there will be a change of Government. It was because this Government had been representing the Australian people for so long and had been so devoid of any real positive policies and of any real human understanding that it made its immoral decision to go into the war in Vietnam. It was an incorrect decision to make geographically. It was an incorrect decision to make historically, and of course this Government will pay for it. These smug members of the Government parties will pay for these crimes against humanity. I only hope that many honourable members opposite will in fact suffer by losing their seats at the forthcoming election. 
Many of these young men I will remember for the rest of my days, until honourable members opposite have the moral courage to stand up and say in public the things that they say in private - that they were wrong to go into the war in Vietnam and that they should never have become involved in the war in Vietnam. They should have the moral strength to stand on their feet and say: 'We had no moral right to go into the war in Vietnam. We were wrong. We should not have inflicted our views on the people in Vietnam. The problems of Vietnam can be solved only by the Vietnamese people and not by pitting the might of one nation against another nation'. They cannot bomb people back into the Stone Age as some of them wanted to do. Some of these young Ministers are smug. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  look at me with smugness on their faces. As long as they sit in this Parliament I will remind them of the immoral crimes that they have supported over those years. They know that if  President  Nixon could save face now and make terms with North Vietnam to get out of Vietnam, he would do so. But the fact is he has gained nothing He could have settled. He could have made peace agreements- 
What is his point of order? Sit him down. 
 I thank the House for giving me this opportunity. Earlier this evening I was in my office listening to this debate and heard the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  making a statement about the security checks for ministerial staff. I listened with interest when he said: There is a card carrying member of the Communist Party who is a staff member of a Federal Minister'. The honourable member for Mackellar knows that that is a complete falsity. He knows that a question was placed on the Senate notice paper today by  Senator Gair  which was addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in the following terms: ls  Mr Harry  Stein, referred to in Press Statement number 41, as  'Mr Uren's  Press Secretary' the same  Mr Stein  who was formerly the Press Gallery correspondent for the Tribune newspaper and campaign director for the Communist Party in the 1964 Senate Elections. 
The honourable member will note the answer to that when he reads tomorrow's Hansard. He will see that I have answered the question by giving a clear *yes'. It is clearly shown that  Mr Stein  is on my staff and clearly the honourable member for Mackellar knows that  Mr Stein  is no longer, and has not been for a number of years, a member of the Communist Party. The honourable member knows this to be so, from speaking tonight to a close personal friend, whom I do not want to name and who informed him clearly that this was the case. 
I am not trying to defend anything here tonight. I am just telling honourable members the facts. In 1968  Mr Stein  was the Press representative of the Tribune' newspaper in the Press Gallery of this Parliament. At approximately the time of the Czechoslovakian invasion he informed me that he was going to let his ticket in the Communist Party lapse. I said: 'Wouldn't it be better to stay in the Communist Party and at least fight against the hard line?' He said: "The truth is, Tom, I don't even believe in their cause any more'. At that time I was a backbench member of this Parliament. Never did I think that I would become shadow Minister, let alone a Minister of an Australian Labor Party government. But be that as it may, that is the position. About. a year ago I said to  Mr Stein:  'Harry, if we become a government, would you like to join me as my Press secretary?' 
No. We see again the narrowness of conservatism and that those who have been so arrogant for so long do not understand this sensitive man. At first he said: 'No, I think it would only create problems for you as a Minister and for your Party'. I said that his appointment would be a matter that would test my strength of character; it would show whether I had the courage to stand up against men who would besmirch a man and who would determine that he and people like him have no real rights in this country. I tell honourable members clearly that irrespective of what the honourable members who sit on the opposite side of the House have to say to smear this man, I said: 'As far as I am concerned, Harry, I think you are a fair dinkum Australian and I would like to have you working with me.' This man worked with me before the elections - he worked his heart out for a Labor Party victory. As far as I am concerned he will remain on my staff while he does his job efficiently. 
I say cleanly that before I appointed  Mr Stein  to his position I discussed the matter with the Leader of my party. I had the agreement of the leadership of my party that I could appoint him and that that would not be embarrassing to our party. In relation to security, as far as my staff is concerned there have been no requests for security checks. My personal private secretary was employed in the Taxation Office for 25 years, so I have no doubt that the security service has run over him from time to time. One of my advisers was a public servant with the National Capital Development Commission. There is also another young man on my personal staff who has not had a security check. They are the only 3 people who sight confidential documents in my office. 
 The only time  Mr Stein  would sight confidential documents would be when it would be necessary in the course of preparing a Press statement. But having said that I say to every honourable member that if  Mr Stein  should need to sight a confidential document I have complete faith that he would respect my confidence and the Government's confidence. Let us look at this question of security. Let us start dealing with real freedoms and liberties irrespective of whether this man is a communist. Let us. look at freedom within this land. In 1951 in this, country we fought for the right of every individual to stand free. If a person is in the Communist Party he has a right of employment in the Public Service, the universities or the private sector. As far as I am concerned every citizen should be treated equally under the law. Let us get above gutter politics. Let us start look-  ing at the question of our freedoms. We have to examine, our freedom because people's freedoms are being restricted more and more. If we restrict a person's rights today, ours could be threatened tomorrow. I hope that this Parliament lifts itself to its correct level. I hope that people outside consider the matter of real freedoms, of the individual freedom of every member and of the right of every man to be deemed innocent until he is proved guilty. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)- I wish to make a person explanation. 
The Prime Minister in his policy speech stated that the Australian Government would develop the Menai-Holsworthy area, which is owned by the State and the Commonwealth. After an examination of that area it was decided to broaden the study to include also the Glenfield, Campbelltown and Camden areas. It is not a joint study. The study is being carried out by the National Urban and Regional Development Authority which is working in co-operation with the State Planning Authority. A report will be submitted to me by 31st March this year. There will be further discussions with the State Planning Authority and after those discussions some action may be taken in the Campbelltown area. I am pleased to state that the New South Wales Government has stabilised land prices in the Campbelltown area as from 3rd October 1972. I commend the New South Wales Government for its action. I hope that other State governments take similar action so that the Commonwealth and the States, irrespective of our politics can join together to try to solve the problems of spiralling land prices. 
For the information of honourable members I present the communique and points of agreement of the Ministerial Council meeting held on 9th March 1973 between myself,  Mr J.  B. Fuller, New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development and  Mr Murray  Byrne, Victorian Minister for State Development and Decentralisation, concerning Albury-Wodonga. Copies of this communique will be available to honourable members in the Parliamentary Library. 
I was informed last Thursday by a representative of Ampol Petroleum Ltd that the company, in conjunction with the New South Wales Government, would he making an announcement that afternoon to the effect that the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development and Ampol had decided to locate a refinery at Lucas Heights near Sutherland in Sydney. I then made certain investigations and was able to ascertain that originally Ampol sought to develop a refinery in Sydney near Blacktown but that proposal was opposed by the State Planning Authority of New South Wales. The State Planning Authority then sought to determine whether in fact it was necessary to establish another refinery in the Sydney region. An instruction was given that the State Planning Authority should investigate 2 sites, namely, Kurnell and Lucas Heights. Before the investigation was completed, a unilateral decision was made by the 
New South Wales Cabinet, without consultation with the State Planning Authority, that the site for the refinery would be Lucas Heights. 
There has been a partnership between the New South Wales Government and the Australian Government on several progressive policies. We have made progress and there are good relationships between the Commonwealth and that State. In the area of the proposed site for the refinery a joint study has been undertaken by the Australian Academy of Science, the Australian Academy of the Humanities and the Australian Academy of Social Sciences with the 3 Federal Departments of Urban and Regional Development, Science, and Environment and Conservation and the New South Wales Department of the Environment. A joint study between the State Planning Authority of New South Wales and the National Urban and Regional Development Authority on Menai and Holsworthy also has been undertaken. Despite this, a unilateral decision was made by the New South Wales Cabinet. The issue is now before the Federal Cabinet and discussion is taking place to determine what will be the attitude of the Australian Government. I am seeking consultations with my colleagues with a view to ensuring that there is a thorough investigation into all aspects. I am quite sure that my colleague, the Minister for Minerals and Energy, will be concerned in relation to our overall fuels policy. I am sure that the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry will be concerned in relation to imports and exports and the placement of industry in Australia. I am sure that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation will be involved. Certainly in relation to this Government correctly determining a planned policy on where industries should develop, the Department of Urban and Regional Development will have some say. I have no doubt that even the Prime Minister's Department will be involved in relation to determining tariff matters. This is not forgetting the role of Treasury which may determine whether foreign money can be invested in this installation. Yes, there has been a unilateral decision made by the New South Wales Government. But I am totally opposed to the siting of this installation, as are the people in the Sutherland area and my colleague, the Minister for Housing, in whose electorate this installation is intended to be located. 
I am aware of the proposed north-west freeway in Brisbane. The Australian Government has no direct power over these land resumptions. It is a State matter but, as the Minister for Transport intimated on Tuesday, the Commonwealth is involved through the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act and also through the Loan Council. The Minister for Transport and I have sought to get the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads to make a thorough investigation into all aspects, including economic and social aspects, of inner city freeway systems. The Commonwealth Department of Urban and Regional Development together with the Departments of Housing and Social Security will look at the social problems involved in displacing people, particularly those who are old, so that they can be resettled, wherever possible, within the given area. The Government is concerned that these people should be housed in the areas where they previously lived all their lives and we will do our best to co-operate with the States in this way. 
It is true that I made a statement about 10 days ago in regard to opposition to an oil refinery at Lucas Heights. I gave some details, including the fact that New South Wales authorities were investigating 2 other sites one at Parklea and one at Kurnell. I also said that the matter was before the Cabinet. Cabinet made a decision this morning. The Prime Minister later today in his Press conference will give all details of that decision. 
It is not my prerogative to make a statement on Cabinet decisions before the Prime Minister makes his statement. If the Prime Minister wants to supplement my answer he may do so. A decision has been made by the Cabinet. I want to develop the Prime Minister's statement after he has made it, and I will be only too pleased to do so. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to change the name and composition of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. We propose to change the name of the Authority to the 'Cities Commission'. Since coming to office the Government has established the Department of Urban and Regional Development. It is important that the Authority's name be clearly identified as separate from the name of the Department. It is also important that we have an authority whose name is symbolic of one of the great themes of this Government's program cities, both old and new. I should mention at the outset that the Bill will require amendment as a result of the passage of the Remuneration and Allowances Bill 1973 and this will be done in the Committee stage. 
We propose in this Bill to change the composition of the Authority so that instead of one Commissioner there will be in the Cities 
Commission a full-time Chairman of Commissioners, and 4 part-time commissioners made up as follows: Firstly, the Secretary of the Department of Urban and Regional Development; and secondly, 3 other members. In selecting the part-time members we would pay special attention to the representation of State interests and involvement. 
There are several reasons for changing the composition of the Authority. Firstly, where there is a shared responsibility under the Act, the Commissioner is given greater protection and greater independence from external pressures. Secondly, the Cities Commission will bc a bridge between the Commonwealth and the States. Co-operation will be encouraged with participation of the States on the Commission. It is the objective of the Cities Commiision and my Department to make federalism work. Federalism is a partnership in a spirit of mutual co-operation at all levels of government. Thirdly, the new structure of the Cities Commission will provide an opportunity for a greater contribution from a wider range of interests. 
The reason for having the Secretary of the Department of Urban and Regional Development on the Commission is to ensure a degree of consistency in policy implementation between the Department and the Commission. In the evolution of our urban and regional development policies, it is vital to provide a link between these 2 bodies in my portfolio. The Authority that was set up by the previous Government did not have the capacity, of itself, to solve the problems of our cities. These problems involve moving across a whole range of inter-connected issues. They are not just physical planning problems. Rather, they concern the allocation of resources in urban and regional areas, the co-ordination of investment in urban and regional facilities and a complex web of social relationships. The previous Authority was unable alone to deal with these problems. Accordingly, honourable members will recall that in October of last year I moved the following amendment on the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill:  the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted because in it5, present form, it creates a mere investigating and advisory body which will have no authority: 
to cope with the problems of urban and regional development. 
to deal with the continuing growth of capital cities and regional centres and to integrate plans for transportation and land use; 
to co-ordinate the allocation of resources which affect urban and regional development; and, 
to implement positive policies to create new forms of urban living to overcome the chaos of our cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. 
We all know that the chaos in Sydney and Melbourne determined the result of the last election, and that is why we are now bringing forward this legislation to amend the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Act and why we set up the new Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
The previous Authority merely advised the Minister. Under this Government, the Cities Commission's role will be greatly strengthened through its working partnership with the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Under this Government's comprehensive urban and regional policies, there will be several roles for the Cities Commission. Firstly, the Cities Commission will conduct studies of regional areas. These studies will be undertaken for a variety of reasons. Some studies will be assessing regions as potential growth centres capable of rapid population growth. Some will be considering strategies for development which may be already taking place. Others will be assessments of proposals for financial support put to the Australian Government. And some may merely be collecting information about particular regions. At present, the Authority is conducting studies in all States. Some of these studies are of possible growth areas and 1 am pleased to say that some States have announced their intention to introduce land price stabilisation legislation to apply to the particular areas. 
For example, we are studying an area 17 miles to 42 miles north of Perth where the Western Australian Government has imposed price stabilisation. The South Australian Government has already introduced price stabilisation legislation for its new city area at Monarto. The New South Wales Government is introducing legislation to stabilise prices in the areas of Bathurst-Orange, Gosford-Wyong and Menai-Holsworthy-Campbelitown-Camden. 
We believe that soon the Victorian Government will introduce price stabilisation legislation, and we are having discussions with the Queensland Government to see whether that State also will co-operate in price stabilisation legislation. I cannot over-emphasie the importance of land price stabilisation in areas being studied as possible growth centres. Although the carrying out of a study does not - I stress the word 'not' - imply a commitment by the Australian Government to support the area as a growth centre, it can lead to speculation. The activities of speculators could result in defeating policies for the support of the particular growth centre. 
Secondly, the Cities Commission will also play a leading role in the establishment of new cities and assisting in their early stages of development. For example, the National Urban and Regional Development Authority is already playing a vital part in the establishment of the new city at Albury-Wodonga. Thirdly, the new Commission will act as a professional consultant to the Department of Urban and Regional Development in physical planning exercises. In this capacity it will advise the Department on: (a) the development of national urban programs; and (b) measures necessary to meet the problems of existing cities. Fourthly, the Commission will also be available to consult with and provide advice and information to State governments, semi-local and local government bodies and regional organisations. 
In the speech I referred to earlier, 1 claimed that under this Government the National Urban and Regional Development Authority would wither on the vine. It should be clear now that, as the Cities Commission, the Authority will be playing a more active and useful role than that envisaged for it by the previous Government. With the establishment of the new Department of Urban and Regional Development, I have found that the National Urban and Regional Development Authority can play a role in the physical planning fields complementary to the work of my Department. As the Cities Commission, it will be a physical partner of my Department. The National Urban and Regional Development Authority by itself could not possibly have coped with the problems of the cities. However, in conjunction with the new Department, it has a more enterprising and constructive role. In this role, it will be assisted by the many and varied skills of planning, engineering and other consultants. The Authority has already briefed a number of consultants to assist it in carrying out the studies 1 have already mentioned. In my earlier speech on the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill, honourable members may recall that I said: 
The Government must approach decentralisation and regional development in an integrated way. A department which can be involved in national planning and the allocation of national resources is essential. The National Urban and Regional Development Authority proposed by the Prime Minister will not have this kind of support in Cabinet to ensure that the country's resources are really joined to achieve the stated goals. However, authorities with comprehensive power would be highly appropriate for the planning and integrated development of each individual site chosen for selective decentralisation. They will be able to ensure the widest use of the natural resources present and would be accountable for the presentation of environmental impact statements on the departments. However, behind them they will require national planning to ensure that employment, houses, recreational and cultural facilities, transport and other key factors are provided. Only government departments can do this. All that the authorities will be able to do is to design the locations on the ground and ensure that by design, these cities are livable ones of the highest environmental quality. 
This Government has now set up a department which not only has a voice in Cabinet but which also is a major policy determining part of this Government. The department being set up is designed to cope with the problems of urban and regional development. It is designed to develop positive policies to create new forms of urban living in order to overcome the chaos in our cities. It is designed to co-ordinate the allocation of resources which affect urban and regional development. It is designed to assist and cooperate with the States and local government bodies. It will not duplicate the Cities Commission's skills in physical planning fields. But it will work closely with the Cities Commission. 
It is important to realise that at the Australian Government level, a policy on urban and regional development is not just a question of physical planning. This Government, unlike the previous Government, recognises that the problems of the cities will not be solved until the expenditures which affect urban and regional development can be coordinated. We can no longer afford to finance an extensive freeway system through inner city areas without regard to the social and economic consequences of building that system. We can no longer afford to tolerate without serious questioning the long and costly journeys to work from outer suburbs to central cities. We can no longer afford to permit large Government offices to be built in the central cities without studying the consequences of further over-centralisation of those cities. We can no longer afford to encourage commercial buildings to be sited in central business areas of cities without examining the consequences of transport loads and the lessening of opportunity for decentralised employment. We can no longer afford to spend large sums on public transport without making an attempt to encourage a more balanced load in the system. We can no longer afford to finance large housing estates without due regard to obtaining a proper social mix and providing access to work and recreation opportunities. 
These are just a few examples of how expenditures which affect urban and regional development must be co-ordinated. I said earlier that one of the great themes of this Government will be its policies on the cities. The Australian Government is committed to bring about changes in our cities; changes that will make our cities more efficient; changes that will equalise the opportunities for urban living. The Cities Commission is a vital part of the vigorous programs we will be adopting to achieve these great aims. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present a paper entitled 'Components of the Growth of Australia's  Major Urban  Centres'. This paper attempts to analyse the contribution of immigration, internal migration and natural increase of the growth of the 10 urban centres of more than 100,000 people for the period 1966- 1971. The paper has been prepared by officers in my administration, but I would like to point out that at this stage it does not -represent the conclusions of my Department or statutory authorities. I am tabling the document today as part of our policies on open government in order to stimulate discussion and further research on this very important issue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 30th June 1971, the proportion of Australia's population living in urban centres of (a) over 500,000 was 57.92 per cent; (b) 75,000 to 500,000 was 6.58 per cent; (c) 50,000 to 75,000 was 2.52 per cent; (d) 20,000 to 50,000 was 4.59 per lent; (e) 10,00 to 20,000 was 4.21 per rent. The total proportion of population in centres of more than 10,000 people is therefore 75.82 per cent. 
However, for the purposes of the 1971 Census an urban area was defined as a local government area with a population density of 500 persons or more per square mile. The percentage of Australia's population living in urban areas with a population of less than 10,000 persons was 9.73 per cent giving  a  total percentage of the Australian population in all urban areas of 85.55 per cent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Two thirds of all the parking needs tor staff in the House are available within some ISO metres. There are ample additional spaces for all day parking within approximately 300 metres. 
No. Revised parking arrangements immediately adjoining the House were completed prior to 26th February as part of the current phase of building alterations. 
and (4) It is considered that at this stage there is reasonable all day parking within reasonable walking distance. In the longer term more extensive patronage of the public transport service is to be encouraged. 
My attention has been drawn to the statement made by the Town  Clerk  of the Council of the City of Knox. Land costs are spiralling in the south-eastern corridor of the Melbourne area as they are in all other capital cities. Action has been taken by the Commonwealth Government and there have been discussions between the Commonwealth Government and all State governments. In Victoria there are 3 areas under study for the development of new cities. There have been discussions also between the Commonwealth Government and all State governments in regard to Commonwealth-State land commissions as well as discussions between New South Wales authorities and the Commonwealth Government. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works and the Commonwealth Government have had discussions about making money available to try to catch up with the backlag in the provision of sewerage services to unserviced land. It will cost in excess of $ 1,000m to catch up with the sew erage backlag that has occurred in Melbourne during the last 23 years of maladministration by previous Commonwealth governments. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works is paying at present, in respect of sewerage in Melbourne, interest at 58c in every dollar it collects. Therefore, if we are to stabilise the problem of rising land prices in Melbourne or Sydney in particular, we will need the co-operation of those State governments. 
The New South Wales Government has stabilised land prices in certain areas under study - the Menai-Hols worthy-Campbell town corridor, the Gosford-Wyong area, the Orange-Bathurst area and the Albury area. The Victorian Government to date has stabilised land prices in only the Wodonga area. No indication has been given publicly of any intention to stabilise land prices in the other study areas. It is important that the State governments make clear their intentions about stabilising land prices otherwise there can be no hope of stopping land prices spiralling. I make clear that it is also very important to get the co-operation of the State governments because it is only through a co-operative effort between Victoria and the Commonwealth that we will be able to stop spiralling land prices in Melbourne. Unless we can do this, we will find that in a very short time land prices in Melbourne will be similar to those in Sydney. At present the average price of land in Sydney exceeds $10,000 and what is happening in Sydney today will happen in Melbourne tomorrow. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) The Government is examining  all  aspects of the Googong Dam proposal. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  misquoted my statements on the Dandenongs in the letter which I sent to the Melbourne 'Age' of 5th April 1973. To clarify the position, I ask that the letter be incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
SIR, - On Tuesday in Canberra, I released a detailed statement to the Press arising out of my visit to the Dandenongs. 
I feel that your editorial yesterday was a fair analysis although it implied that I had not given a lot of consideration to the Dandenongs. I have over many years given a great deal of thought to the Dandenongs and other such places of natural beauty in Australia. 

 Mr Whitlam said in his policy speech that we would 'acquire land for national parks; land on which historic buildings or buildings specially worthy of preservation are sited; land along the coastline where the people's access to their beaches is endangered; land in other areas needing special protection such as the Blue Mountains'. The Dandenongs is an area which we would consider as needing such special protection. 
The question to me is not whether the Dandenongs should be preserved but how they should be preserved. 
In the long run, the only way to ensure preservation is for the land to be within the public sector. Even planning controls will not be sufficient in the long term. 
Your editorial talks of the costs of conserving the Dandenongs and of the Victorian State Government's activities in buying areas and I support their action. But I am also aware that the State has limited financial resources to carry out this task. Indeed, I note in yesterday's Press a call by the Victorian Minister for Conservation  (Mr Borthwick)  on the Australian Government for $20m to help Victoria save its beauty spots. 
My position on the long-term preservation therefore is that ultimately the land should be in the public sector but that this will need financial support from the Australian Government. I will shortly be making a submission to Cabinet on the national estate. 
I was disturbed to see the Premier  (Mr Hamer)  quoted in your paper yesterday as saying that the State Government 'would not allow the Federal Government to "eject" people from their homes in the Dandenongs'. I have never suggested that people be ejected from their homes, neither on my visit to the Dandenongs on this occasion, nor on any other occasion. 
In my statement on Tuesday,I pointed out thatI did not want to get into a slugging match with State Ministers and that the preservation of the Dandenongs is a responsibility of the Victorian Government and its agencies. There can be no question of interfering with the rights of people who have already established homes in the Dandenongs. But the time has come for a halt to further residential development. This brings me to the measures we should be taking in the short term while we are progressively acquiring land. 
Although 1 maintain that even planning controls are not sufficient in the long term, they must be employed in the short term. 
Already the Dandenongs are subject to the processes of suburbanisation. There are pressures building up for the area to be a residential one with commuting to employment in the central city and the city of Dandenong. There are demands for increased services in the area. However, if services are upgraded, it will inevitably lead to pressures for further growth in the area. 1 see it as part of my Ministerial responsibility to constantly challenge Australians to preserve our national heritage on which a great deal of damage has been inflated in past years. 
What the Federal Government wants to do is to assist the State Government to conserve the Dandenongs as a beautiful area for the whole metropolis of Melbourne. 
TOM UREN (Minister for Urban Affairs, Canberra). 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
Clause 1. 
This Act may be cited as the Cities Commission Act 1973. 
The National Urban and Regional Development Authority Act 1972* is in this Act referred to as the Principal Act. 
The Principal Act, as amended by this Act, may be cited as the Cities Commission Act 1972- 1973. 
1 want to indicate that the Government does not accept the amendment. We do not intend to neglect regional development. We have set up a new department which is named the Department or Urban and Regional Development. The Cities Commission will be concerned with old cities and with new cities and regions. It will promote regional development on a selective basis by establishing new cities. Some speakers have failed to recognise the vital point that the Cities Commission will work together with the Department of Urban and Regional Development. There is a very great difference now in that 2 bodies are attacking the problems facing our cities. As I said in my second reading speech, the Cities Commission's role will be greatly strengthened through its working partnership with the Department of Urban and Regional Development. This is the first time in the nation's history that the Australian Government has recognised the concept of cities. This Government is determined that cities will form a major policy area of the administration of this Government. 
I listened with great interest to the comments made during the second reading debate. 1 am aware that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who was a Minister in the last Government, was greatly concerned about regional areas, particularly during the latter part of the last term of office of his Government. All honourable members, particularly the new  members  who are in Committee today, should realise that in the 23 years in which the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office, the population in the rural sector fell from 31 per cent of Australia's population to the present figure 
1IJ69/TS - R - PJ1J 
of 14.7 per cent. It has been stressed that we are not concerned about regional areas. The Cities Commission, which we are now discussing, is making a study - and I stress the word 'study' - of several areas. Of the areas in Queensland being studied at least two are regional development areas. I refer to Townsville and Gladstone. Unfortunately those areas have been mentioned, so I can name them today. Previously I have tried to remain silent on these areas because there has not been a stabilisation of land prices in Queensland, and this is regrettable. 
Land prices in relevant areas in New South Wales have been stabilised at the prices as at 3rd October 1972, and I commend the New South Wales Government for that action. One area in New South Wales which is under study at the present time is the GosfordWyong area. Wyong is on the Central Coast, some 70 miles north of Sydney. We are having a study made of what was once called a sub-metropolitan area but what we now call a system city in the MenaiHolsworthy.Campbelltown corridor. We are having a study made of the Bathurst-Orange area. Surely that is a regional area. We are at present having a study made of the Albury-Wodonga area. Several studies - in fact, 3 studies - are being made in Victoria in areas that I cannot name because the Victorian Government has not stabilised land prices. I agree with the statement by the Leader of the Australian Country Party that if I do name them there will be land speculation in those areas. A regional growth area is being studied in South Australia. Three areas are under study in Western Australia, namely, Bunbury, Albany and Geraldton. Those are only studies - 1 stress the word 'studies' - that are being made .it present. 
One has to look at the philosophical position. The former government had as its policy the separation of areas into submetropolitan areas and regional areas. The Leader of the Australian Country Party wanted to talk only about regional areas. In fact, this morning he said that we io not really want to worry about sub-metropolitan areas because- 
I do not want to misquote the Leader of the Australian Country Party, but he said that to an extent the attending to and repairing of conditions on the fringes of the cities will stop people from going to regional growth centres. The Government believes that it is necessary to have a rational policy and that, first of all, it is necessary to try and slow down the growth of our major capital cities. I have spelt out the Government's policy and talked about the subject of population growth. The Government wants to try to slow down the growth of our cities. At the same time it wants to rationalise them. 
There are at least 2 growth corridors in Sydney. One is what is called the. western corridor, which is from Blacktown to Penrith. If the development of that area is not planned rationally it will sprawl irrationally. No matter how much one tries to slow down its growth, it will continue to grow. It has been estimated that its population will grow from something like 200,000 at present to over 1 million by the turn of the century. We are also trying to control the development of what is called the- MenaiHolsworthyCampbelltown corridor. In that corridor there are about 50,000 people at present, but by the turn of the century there could be nearly 1 million people. It would be better if the development of that area were planned on a rational basis. It should be developed on a similar basis t© Canberra. It is for that reason we have said that any development which occurs in our major cities should be on a planned basis. 
What have we determined in regard to our regional growth centres? We have, said that we must slow down the growth of our cities and that we cannot afford to over centralise our population. Why have we said that? Why did the 2 major advocates of that policy from this side of the Parliament, namely, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and I, keep on advocating during the last 3 years that we were in Opposition - of course, the Prime Minister was speaking in these terms years before that - that we must have decentralisation and that we must create growth centres? It was because of the sprawl of our cities, the rising land prices and the difficulties being experienced by those who live on the fringes of our cities. I have said before that some of these people are not really living but just existing. 
There are 2 areas of Australia that are really depressed areas. They are the western area of Melbourne and the western area of Sydney. It is in those areas that people really need great assistance to lift their standard of living and their quality of life. Young people who wish to buy a block of land in Sydney have to pay between $9,000 and $12,000. I have in mind an area in Blacktown about 3 miles from the railway station. The average price of land at present is in excess of $10,000 and young people are in an impossible position. 
Therefore this Government decided to create growth areas and chose in the first place to go to Albury-Wodonga. On 25th January the Premiers of Victoria and New South Wales, both Conservative Premiers, joined with the Prime Minister and determined that an area with a radius of some 55 kilometres, or 35 miles in the old measurement, would have- land prices stabilised as at 3rd October 1972, and within that area a study would be made. This is an area of about 33,000 square miles. By June this year that area will be reduced to i 1,000 square miles and by June of next .year we will be able to determine the exact area that we need. Within that area we will develop a system of leasehold land tenure, the basis on which land was developed in Canberra prior to 1st January 1971. I want to give some information to the Committee about the cost of' land in Canberra under leaseholds. 1 refer the Committee to the 1970 report of the National Capital Development Commission which discloses that land has been developed in 3 different ways - by restricted auction, by unrestricted auction and by group sales. Under unrestricted auction, where land was the dearest, the price was reduced from $4,500 a block in 1962 to $3,000 in 1970, a reduction of one-third. At the same time the price of land in Sydney rose by about 200 per cent. At restricted auction ' sales in Canberra a block of land could be bought- 
 I move: 
Omit sub-section (5) of proposed section 6, subsitute the following sub-section: 
Where the Commission is constituted as provided in sub-section (4) of this section, section 8, sub-section (3) of section 8a and sections 9, 10, 11 and 14 apply as if references to the  Chairman  and the office of  Chairman  were references to the Commissioner constituting the Commission by virtue of sub-section (4) of this section and the office of that Commissioner, respectively, and any references to a part-time Commissioner were omitted.'. 
Omit sub-section (2) of proposed section 8a, substitute the following sub-sections: 
A part-time Commissioner shall be paid remuneration at such rate as the Parliament fixes, but, until 1 January 1974, the rate of that remuneration shall be as prescribed. (2a) The Associate Commissioner shall be paid remuneration at the rate of Twenty thousand five hundred and two dollars per year. (2b) Until the Commission is constituted as provided in sub-section (1) of section 6, the Commissioner constituting the Commission shall be paid remuneration at the rate of Twenty-nine thousand two hundred and fifty dollars per year and an annual allowance at the rate of One thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars per year.'. 
The Cities Commission Bill was drafted prior to the Remuneration and Allowances Bill which varied the salaries of the statutory office holders. However, the Remuneration and Allowances Bill was introduced and passed by the House and overtook the Cities Commission Bill. It is therefore necessary to amend the Cities Commission Bill to take account of this occurrence and its effect on the statutory office holders. The amendments are simply intended to make this Bill consistent with the provisional Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973. 
 As I want to co-operate with the Opposition, I will accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I remind the honourable member that it was a government of his political persuasion which nominated the members of the National Urban and Regional Development Advisory Committee which is now to be called, of course, the Cities Commission Advisory Committee. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  said that there were no environmentalists on the Advisory Committee. In fairness to the previous Government, I think I should say that Professor Walsh is not just close to being an environmentalist but is in fact an environmentalist. I am correcting the right honourable member for Higgins. Professor Walsh is  Chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Study Committee of the Australian Academy of Science,  Chairman  of the Advisory Committee on the Environment to the Australian Government through the Minister for the Environment and Conservation,  Chairman  of the Research Advisory Committee on the Crown of Thorns, past  Chairman  of the Joint CommonwealthQueensland Crown of Thorns Starfish Inquiry and a member of the Immigration Planning Committee. At present there is one vacancy on the proposed advisory committee. Unfortunately I had committed myself to the appointment of a person before this debate came before the Committee and this is one reason why I have accepted the amendment. Professor Walsh is one environmentalist on the committee now but the Government will make sure that another environmentalist will be appointed to it. 
I am pleased that Opposition members are now showing some concern about environmental matters. I want to co-operate with them, as I hope do all members of the Government, in this field. I give a clear undertaking that all aspects of environment and quality of life will be dealt with in the development of the Albury-Wodonga region. In the feasibility study which was carried out by an eminent engineering firm based in Adelaide the environmental aspect was dealt with in depth. The Government is, to a great extent, using the experience of Canberra because, after all, Canberra is an inland city through which flows the Molonglo River. This flows into the 
Murrumbidgee River which, in turn, flows into the Murray River. The rivers are all connected. When one is dealing with the environment one considers all aspects so I urge honourable members opposite not to get too uptight about environmental problems associated with the development of Albury-Wodonga. When one is talking about the problems of the Murray River catchment area one is not considering only the Murray but also the Murrumbidgee, the Lachlan and the Darling. These rivers are all interconnected. 
The former Minister for the Interior, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  is well aware of the experiences of Canberra and of the proposed treatment of the water of the lower Molonglo River. After treatment at a centre, which will be built at the junction of the Molonglo and the Murrumbidgee Rivers, the water will be pure and people will be able to swim in it. This is the type of experience the Government will seek to apply at AlburyWodonga. I am pleased to be able to cooperate with the Opposition in adding a member to the proposed advisory committee. That member will be experienced in environmental matters. 
I move: 
Insert after the word 'effect' the words 'except to the extent to which they are inconsistent with the Principal Act as amended by this Act and'. 
The purpose of this amendment is as I mentioned in relation to clause 7. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
I am aware of the statement made by the Victorian Minister for State Development and Decentralisation. There has been correspondence between  Mr Byrne  and me.  Mr Byrne  did suggest certain areas that could be considered for study - I stress the word 'study' - for possible development as growth centres. I notice that  Mr Byrne's  letter to me was published in full.  Mr Byrne  did not seek my permission to make it public. It is not my intention to disclose my reply to  Mr Byrne  without consultation with him because I feel if we are to get any real co-operation between Commonwealth and State Ministers, State Ministers have certain responsibilities as do Commonwealth Ministers. I regret that the statement was made. At no time has there been agreement between the Commonwealth and the State on any regional area in Victoria to be nominated as a growth area with the exception of Wodonga. It was agreed that no announcement would be made on any other area during the Victorian election campaign because the Australian Government should not be used in the politics of that State's elections. The Australian Government wants to work out scientifically what is in the best interests of Victoria and the nation as a whole in determining new growth centres. 
My attention has been drawn to a report of the speeches made by the Governor-General and the Chief Justice of Australia. I commend the statements of those 2 gentlemen. It is a fact that there has been an overbuilding of the central business districts of our capital cities. The Government has taken positive action to rectify this development. The first decision made by Cabinet in the area concerned the proposed development of the Woolloomooloo site for Commonwealth Offices in the central business district of Sydney. The decision was made to develop an Australian Government centre at Parramatta instead, some 15 miles from the centre of Sydney. We are examining also sites in various parts of other cities away from the central business districts, particularly in Melbourne. We are re-examining whether we should use the Spring Street site in Melbourne. One has to bear in mind that during the last 10 years the previous Government permitted the overbuilding of office space by insurance companies in the central business districts of our cities. Investment for this type of development alone increased from $144m in December 1961 to nearly $ 1,200m in December 1972, an increase of something like 700 per cent. In the same period the insurance companies increased their statutory reserves by little more than 200 per cent. Therefore we will be having discussions with insurance companies to try to encourage them to decentralise their investment in commercial development at nodes along transport corridors so as to bring about a balanced development of transport within the major cities. The Treasurer has taken action to curb foreign investment in real estate. The Government is now examining this question to ensure that if there is foreign investment in real estate in Australia the Government will be able to determine where the development should be located. There are some of the positive actions taken by the Australian Government to try to bring some balance to the development of Australian cities. At present the 2 major crisis cities are Sydney and Melbourne. It is our aim to take positive action to bring balance and a better quality of living to those major cities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. But a study is presently being undertaken by a Commission of Inquiry headed by  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell. 
The Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenures will be made public. 
It was agreed at a meeting in Albury/Wodonga on 25 January 1973 by the Prime Minister and the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria that the proposed Development Corporation, unless there are exceptional circumstances, will follow a policy of providing fully serviced sites for development on  a  long-term leasehold tenure. This proposal is consistent with the policy employed in Canberra. The details of the system will be determined by the three 
Governments concerned following  the  Inquiry referred  to in  (1). 
The criteria will be determined by the three Governments concerned following the Inquiry referred  to  in (1). 
This will be determined by the three Governments concerned following the Inquiry referred to in (1). 
Vernon Committee of  Enquiry  into the Economy  (Question No. 460) 
 One of the major reasons for this legislation is the economic squalor of local government in this country. I will deal specifically with some details and statistics relating to this matter later in my speech. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said that he wanted to do something really positive about decentralisation. The strange story is that during the 23 years that his Party was in power, the population of the non-urban areas of Australia fell from 31 per cent of the total population of Australia in 1947 to 14.7 per cent of the total when the previous Government went out of power. So much for the previous Government's attitude on the question of decentralisation and in its dealings with local government. 
In his policy speech before the recent elections, the Leader of our Party said that Labor was determined to make local government a genuine partner in the Federal system. Since coming to office, the Australian Government has acted promptly and has taken 2 decisive steps to meet this commitment. Firstly, the Australian Government sought and gained a voice for local government at the Constitutional Convention. Last month it was agreed by the Steering Committee of the Convention that 21 local government delegates, sharing 8 votes, would be. invited to attend the Constitutional Convention, the first meeting of which will be in September. This fulfils our promise to give local government a voice and a vote at the Convention. Secondly, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  last week introduced the Grants Commission Bill 1973. As he said in his second reading speech: 
This Bill is a key part of our new charter for local government. 
He said that the Government is determined to give local government adequate access to the nation's finances'. 
These are only our first 2 steps in upgrading the resources and the role of local government within our Federal system. We intend to make the Federal system work as a co-operative partnership - a partnership amongst the 3 levels of government - Commonwealth, State and local. A great deal is spoken about the relationship between democracy and local government. The argument is usually put as one whereby the system of local government, which is designed to administer small areas with direct and visible representation by councils, is one which is most amenable te our democratic tradition. As the Royal Commission on Local Government in England pointed out, the system of local government is 'more than the sum of the particular services provided'. 
The Maud Report pointed out that local government is an essential part of democratic government. It is the potential ability of local government to provide for the immediate access of directly elected representatives to a community which gives it this democratic quality once described by Harold Laski as *the genius of place'. This might be called the responsive aspect of democracy. But in order to be properly responsive, a system of government must carry out certain responsibilities. We might well ask the question: What sort of responsive democracy exists when the authority is paralysed? One must recognise that local government has been paralysed, particularly over the last 2 decades. It is with this aspect firmly in mind that the Government now proposes to give local government the opportunity to express its voice on fiscal needs at the level of the Australian Government. 
The Bill presently before the House is a first step in upgrading the resources of local government and thus providing that tier of our system with the ability to better carry out its responsibilities. There are 2 distinct parts of the proposal in this legislation to give local government access to the Grants Commission. Firstly, there are sections dealing with the actual operation of the Grants Commission itself. These sections are concerned with the ways in which the Commission will go about its business of examining applications, determining criteria, considering needs and making recommendations to the Minister. 
The second part of the proposal in this legislation concerns the role of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. It will be seen from the Act that the Minister has 2 particular functions. Firstly, under clause 17, the Minister may approve local governing bodies as regional organisations for the purpose of this Act. Secondly, under clause 18, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has the opportunity to assist the Grants Commission by making submissions to the Commission on the applications for special assistance that the Commission receives from regional organisations. With regard to the first function, one consideration which has led the Australian Government to seek regional organisations for the Grants Commission applications is the very simple matter of the administration of the scheme. There are over 900 local government units in Australia. It would completely overload the resources of my Department and the Grants Commission if we were to try to deal with each unit separately. 
In addition, our interest in regional organisation goes beyond the consideration of administering this scheme. All of us are conscious that there are deficiencies in the local govern ment system. Some evidence of this can be seen in the great number of inquiries that have been conducted over many years. In fact, there is hardly a point of time when there has not been an inquiry of some sort or another into local government. At the present moment, there is a Committee of Inquiry into Local Government in New South Wales which is dealing, amongst other things, with the question of boundaries. South Australia has just established a Royal Commission on Boundaries of Local Government. The Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia does not mention local government. No local government body has a legal existence independent of its State government. The Australian Government has no power to intervene, even if it wanted to, in the question of boundary determination. But there is no doubt that the question of the size of local government units is one which has to be examined when any consideration is given to the maximum potential efficiency of the local government system. This aspect relates, of course, both to the responsibility side and the responsive side of local government that I was referring to earlier. 
There is another aspect where the Australian Government can help local government to discharge its responsibilities and that is in the area of finance. Let there be no doubt that until now the financial resources of local government have been allowed to run down to a deplorable degree. A lot has been said about the worsening debt position of State governments relative to the Australian Government. However, if the relative shares of the 3 levels of government debt are calculated over the 30 year period from 1940 to 1970, honourable members will find that - I stress this point - while both the Australian and the State governments' share of government debt have diminished, the share of local government and State semi-government authorities has increased significantly. 
For example, let us look at the share of the government debt at 1940 and compare it to that of 1970. In 1940, the share of the Commonwealth was 27 per cent; in 1970 it was 18.6 per cent. In 1940, the share of the States was 56 per cent; in 1970, it was 44.7 per cent. In 1940, the share of local government and semi government bodies was 17 per cent and in 1970 it was 36.7 per cent. These figures reveal clearly the difficult and worsening position of local government. It is also quite apparent that in recent years increases in local government revenues have failed to keep pace with those of other levels of government. Between the years 1967-68 and 1971-72 the increase in government receipts for the Commonwealth was 61 per cent, for the States 63 per cent, but for local government 37.5 per cent. So it should be quite clear that one significant area where the Australian Government could lend its support for local government is in the area of finance. As a responsible Government we. have an obligation to see that financial assistance is granted, in the first instance, to the most deserving causes. This Government also has the responsibility to ensure that any financial assistance that is given to local government is used efficiently and to the greatest benefit. It is our belief that the best way of achieving these objectives lies in broadening the perspectives of the single local government unit. In this way problems, and solutions to these problems, could be looked at in a regional context. Therefore, the Act gives the Minister for Urban and Regional Development discretion in approving regional organisations. My Department is looking at regional formations that have already occurred in some States. We feel that the local government people themselves are good judges of what constitutes a region in their own circumstances. 
We hope there will be strong and continuing moves in both metropolitan and rural areas towards the formation of regional organisations for the purpose of the Grants Commission operation. Ultimately we hope that these movements will assist me in the administration of urban and regional development programs. I might also say that the formation of regional organisations seems to offer the prospect for greatly advancing the interests of the regions and their members generally. I mentioned earlier that the 2 functions were given to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development under this Act. The second function is to assist the Grants Commission by making submissions to it. In fact we will be making submissions in support of local government and their regions. In some cases the second ministerial council meeting contain proposals. But it will be my Department that will be giving evidence, to the Grants Commission on details and information in regard to the regions. 
Over the last 2 decades the responsibilities of local government have been increased and complicated. The problems of local govern ment have increased due to booming population growth which has been caused partly by an unplanned influx from immigration. I was astounded that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said Australia would have  a  population of 22 million by the turn of the century. He referred to a population in Australia of something like 35 million people within a half century. If that is to be the growth of population of this nation we will have grave problems. The whole question has to be examined clearly and scientifically. If we want to lift the quality of life, the standard of living and the standard of local government areas in the cities, population growth must be examined and we must not simply pull figures off the top of our heads in relation to population growth. We must consider that if the population growth of this country increases to the extent to which the Leader of the Opposition has referred  -  22 million people by the turn of the century - that will mean an increase of 9 million people. No country has been able to decentralise its population to any greater extent than the United Kingdom did between the end of the Second World War and now. By creating new communities Britain was able to slow down the population growth of its major cities by only 1 million people. Despite what the Leader of the Opposition said, even if we can equal the achievement of the United Kingdom between now and the turn of the century, 8 million people will have to be located in our existing cities. I put it to the Leader of the Opposition that that would be madness. We have to improve the standard of our living. We must look seriously at population growth if we want to increase the standard of living in Australia. 
This Government is doing something positive about decentralisation. Today I chaired the second ministerial council meeting concerned with the Albury-Wodonga complex. This is a great venture and the State governments of New South Wales and Victoria, to their credit, did a fine job in co-operating with the Commonwealth. It is a new spirit of co-operative federalism. This Government is doing something positive after 23 years of no action by the previous Government. 
The problems of local government have increased due to lack of financial resources. These problems are not evenly distributed. Different units of local government have different problems. There are different levels of needs and resources among the local units. Therefore, under this Act, the Grants Commission will be able to receive applications for special assistance from local government organisations. The Act defines 'special assistance' in clause 6 as being to enable approved regional organisations to function, by reasonable effort, at a standard not appreciably below the standards of other approved regional organisations. 
My Department will be involved in submitting to the Commission matters relating to standards, matters relating to the organisation of local government, and matters relating to the particular range of needs which might be expressed in applications for financial aid. It is an essential part of my Department's duties to give assistance to approved regional organisations. My Department will be consulting the appropriate State authorities about this assistance. For that reason the Government accepted the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition. We will, in fact, consult the appropriate State ministers. After discussions with the States, the Department will be helping the regional organisations in the preparation of their application for financial assistance. After this Bill is passed by both Houses, further discussions will be held with the relevant departments and the Grants Commission. As soon as possible after this an announcement will be made about the procedures to be followed for submitting applications to the Commission. 
I believe this is an historic and far-reaching proposal. Under this Act local government, for the first time since Federation, is given the opportunity to influence the Australian Government in its financial allocations. It can do this through an independent advisory body of high repute as the Grants Commission. The Grants Commission has served Australia well with regard to the dependent States and I am quite sure it will serve Australia well with respect to the claimant regional areas that need assistance. The Australian Government recognises the traditional and statutory relationships of local and State governments. However, the Australian Government also recognises the justice of the case for assistance to local government. This Bill represents a first step in the recognition of that case. It will not solve all the problems of local government. These problems cannot be solved overnight. There are no instant solutions to local govern ment and urban problems. My Department is examining these problems with a view to formulating fundamental solutions which involve co-ordinating the allocation of resources within urban areas. We are aiming for changes which will provide for a more efficient allocation of resources and a more equal distribution of social goods. 
I believe that this proposal can work only with the utmost co-operation and goodwill of local government bodies, State governments and the Commonwealth Government. We in the Australian Government have goodwill towards those other 2 tiers in our federal system. We in the Australian Government seek the co-operation of all levels of government We must meet together as a team in the spirit of co-operative federalism, as a team of men and women of goodwill who are concerned to put this nation on the right tracks again. I ask the House to support the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by Mir Street) adjourned. 
This answer replaces the answer previously supplied to the honourable member on 3 May 1973: 
At 30 June 1971, the proportion of Australia's population living in urban centres of (a) over 500,000 was 57.92 per cent; (b) 75,000 to 500,000 was 6.58 per cent; (c) 50,000 to 75,000 was 2.52 per cent; (d) 20,000 to 50,000 was 4.59 per cent; (e) 10,000 to 20,000 was 4.21 per cent. 
The total proportion of population in centres of more than 10,000 people is therefore 75.82 per cent. 
However for the purposes of the 1971 Census the percentage of Australia's population living in urban areas with a population of less than 10,000 persons was 9.73 per cent, giving a total percentage of the Australian population in all urban areas of 85.55 per cent. 
A study has been made of the Bathurst-Orange area by the Cities Commission and the results are now being considered by the Government. Last Wednesday discussions were held in Canberra between  Mr Fuller,  the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and myself.  Mr Fuller,  for the New South Wales Government, invited the Australian Government to appoint a representative to its consultative committee. I accepted the invitation on behalf of the Australian Government. The question of the extent to which the Australian Government will support the Bathurst-Orange proposal will be discussed and determined during consideration of the Government's overall budgetary policy for the coming Budget. I am sure there will be a Commonwealth contribution for the BathurstOrange proposal for the financial year 1973- 74. 
 I support the amendment which was moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to deal with 2 matters. It deals with the Opposition's accusation that this Government would deal in patronage of an individual municipality and it relates also to the bypassing of the States. The amendment moved by the Prime Minister states: 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development may, after consultation with, the appropriate Minister of the State concerned, approve . . . 
The amendment deals firstly with consultations with the respective State governments, particularly the Ministers concerned, so it is apparent that we do not want to bypass the States. In fact the spirit of our role in urban and regional development is to seek cooperation at all levels of government. That has been the spirit if this Government's policy. I want to quote what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said as reported at pages 2520 and 2521 of Hansard. He said: 
I do not want, and I am sure the Prime Minister in no circumstances would want, some future government to use this Bill as an instrument for patronage to individual municipal councils. It does have in it that capacity. For instance, an approved regional authority, while it is a body which represents or acts for a group, can under the terms of clause 17 of the Bill, be a single municipal authority. It would therefore be possible to pick out municipality XYZ and the Minister, whoever he may be at the time, could by instrument in writing, make it an approved regional organisation and then give it patronage for political purposes. I put it to the Prime Minister that the correct way in which this should be done is in such a way that it has the supervision of Parliament. With the supervision of Parliament the correct way is to do it by way of regulation and there would be a capacity for debate and it would be argued that it is being done for patronage if that is what some future government - and I am sure it is clear to the Prime Minister - 
The Leader of the Opposition then went on to say: 
I appreciate that It will be moved by somebody on this side of the House that the words 'by, regulation' be substituted for the words 'by instrument in writing'. 
The Prime Minister interjected again and said: 
The consequence being that if either House objected to the regulation it could be disallowed. 
The Leader of the Opposition then said: 
That is right I thank the Prime Minister for that interjection. I come now to applications for assistance. 
The Leader of the Opposition then went on to deal with another matter. Honourable members can see that the spirit of the amendment moved by the Prime Minister fully concurs with the suggestion and request made by the Leader of the Opposition in the second reading debate. Now the Opposition wants to go further. It wants to have regulations covering the zoning of regions of all councils whether it be an individual or a number of councils creating a region. Quite frankly, as the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  said, the creation of new regions will be a very difficult task. This is a new organisation. There will be consultation between the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the appropriate State ministries responsible, probably the Department of Local Government, with a view to creating regions. I have no doubt that from time to time municipalities will be lobbying their respective House of Representatives members and their senators. If they do not like one zone they will try to get into another zone. Consequently, if the Government accepted the Opposition's proposition, we could get into a chaotic situation in trying to disallow regulations. Therefore, adopting a commonsense approach, there is going to be a real spirit of co-operative federalism. Local government, the State governments and the Australian Government will work together in co-operation to try to deal with local government affairs, which really are in very grave difficulties because of local government indebtedness. To a great extent the former Government is responsible for getting them into such difficulties. I ask the Committee to support the amendment moved by the Prime Minister. 
The Cities Commission has been carrying out a study in Western Australia In an area 17 to 42 miles north of Perth, which the honourable member mentioned. It is also carrying out a study in the areas of Geraldton, Bunbury and Albany. When that study is finalised - and the Cities Commission is now studying these matters - it will be placed before Cabinet and Cabinet will then make a decision on that matter. 
My attention has not been drawn to the Urban Development Institute's report on Western Australia but my attention has been drawn to the study made by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies last year when it dealt with rising land prices. One of the proposals of that institute to stop rising land prices was that the Commonwealth in cooperation with the State Governments should firstly acquire land on the fringes of capital and provincial cities and country towns and secondly subdivide and service that land. In certain circumstances the Institute supported leasehold land tenure. The Australian Government has proposed that through land commissions, in co-operation with the State governments, land would be acquired for this purpose on the fringes of our capital cities. We plan to let the blocks out either on leasehold or freehold. In an area like the corridor north of Perth, an area from 17 to 42 miles north, could be developed on a leasehold basis. The area is owned at present by about 5 landholders, some of whom could be called speculators. 
I believe that in co-operation the Australian Government and the Western Australian Government could develop that area in the best interests of the Australian people. On the question of spiralling land prices I give the example of Sydney. The average price of a block of land in Sydney at present- 
-I am giving the example of Sydney because the problem there will be experienced tomorrow in Melbourne and in Perth the following day. That has to be recognised. The average price of a block of land in Sydney at present is about $10,000; with a house it would be about $23,000. This means that a young couple has to save a deposit of between $7,000 and $8,000. If they can get loan of $15,000 repayable over 25 years at 8 per cent the monthly repayments are about $112. If one assesses that repayment as 25 per cent of the weekly income of the wage earner it would mean that person would require an income of between $110 and $120 a week to be able to get the necessary loan. Yet the average weekly earnings of all Australian workers are slightly over $100 and 70 per cent of the taxpayers of this country earn less than the average weekly earnings. That is why in New South Wales there are 40,000 people seeking homes through the Housing Commission  -  26,000 in Sydney alone. Honourable members opposite are interjecting, particularly the honourable member for Stirling. Thi average price of land in Perth now is $7,000 If we apply the same mathematical formul! there to houses costing between 811.000 ant 612,000 it will be seen that a similar situation applies and &amp;&amp;t young people in Wester Australia are in on acute position. The Government believes that the only chance youn people have of getting a home is to try ti eliminate the immediate cost of the land from the cost of land and dwelling. By this means we believe that more people will come within the economic group whose members are able to afford to buy homes. The Government believes that it is only by the Commonwealth acting in co-operation with the States that the problems of stabilising land prices in the States can be solved. 
The Secretary of my Department has had discussions with the CoordinatorGeneral in Queensland with regard to the creation of regions in that State for the purpose of making applications to the Grants Commission. Discussions have been going on with the respective State Ministers and departments of all other States. In most cases the discussions have been with the departments of local government, but in Queensland they have been with the Co-ordinator-General's Department. After the regions have been determined the matter will be referred to the States again for further discussion, lt is the object of this Government to work in a spirit of cooperative federalism and to make sure that we really get things moving and achieve the cooperation of all levels of government. 
This matter has been drawn to the attention of the Cities Commission and my Department and they have made investigations. This estate has been taken over by Taiga Ltd. There has been speculation that this company is seeking to rezone the area, although I understand that the New South Wales State Planning Authority would be opposed to any rezoning of this area. The Camden Park Estate is a part of our national heritage. It is of great national significance. It has been owned by John Macarthur and his descendants since 1795. It was there that wool and wheat production and dairying was first commenced. Frankly, the Commonwealth Government and the State governments want to retain our national heritage wherever it is possible to do so. It is important that this estate be retained because of the open green belt that it would provide in the Menai-Holsworthy-Campbelltown corridor. Therefore we would support any action taken by the New South Wales Government to try to retain it in its present state. I have been informed that the Minister for Local Government in New South Wales,  Sir Charles  Cutler, stated on 19 January that the New South Wales Government wanted to retain Camden Park in its present state. If there were any outside involvement the State Government would take action to acquire it. If that is the case we might be able to make arrangements whereby the Commonwealth would meet and join with the New South Wales Government in the retention of this area as an open space area for the nation as well as in the interests of the development of the MenaiHolsworthyCampbelltown corridor. 
I move: 
That the amendments be disagreed to. 
The Cities Commission is an independent arm of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. The Cities Commission as an arm of the Department will be concerned with cities, old and new. It will be concerned with new cities in regions. The Cities Commission will assist the promotion of regional development by the establishment of new cities. A major role of the Cities Commission will be to go out to State governments and local government bodies as a promoter of better ways of achieving urban and  regional development. The name 'Cities Commission' provides a sharp focus for its activities and one which gives it a separate identity from the Department. The suggested amendment would leave the Commission with a lengthy and cumbersome title and one which would cause the Commission and the Department to be confused. 
 I do not want to delay the Committee, but I want to explain that both spokesmen for the Opposition do not really comprehend the purpose of the Cities Commission. A Department of Urban and Regional Development has been set up and the Cities Commission will be a physical arm of that Department. It will be. a bridge between the Commonwealth and the States. I might say in answer to the humbug that the 2 former Ministers spoke that during the 23 years of their Government's administration the population of the rural areas of this country fell from 31 per cent to 14.7 per cent of the total population. That shows how much the previous Government cared about regional development. 
This Government will be developing regions in corridors. Albury-Wodonga, between Sidney and Melbourne, is the first area which will be developed. We will be developing, in co-operation with our State colleagues, growth centres in other areas such as the Bathurst-Orange area. We will be conducting studies in the corridor between Sydney and Brisbane. We will be conducting studies and arriving at decisions in respect of the corridor between Melbourne and the La Trobe Valley. We will be making studies in areas in the corridor between Melbourne and Adelaide. We will be developing growth centres in these areas. But let us be clear about it; we oppose completely the concept of the Country Party and the negative attitude of the Liberal Party - the former Government that was in government for so long - of dispersed decentralisation. Our concepts will be determined on the basis of special regional growth areas. That is where our energies will be directed, and this Cities Commission will play an important physical role in that development. 
Amendments disagreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Mr Uren)  agreed to: 
That  Mr Daly, Mr Enderby  and the mover bo appointed a committee to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate. 
On behalf of the committee appointed to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate, I present those reasons. (Thereupon the  Clerk  read the reasons as follows): 
Because the Cities Commission is an independent arm of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
The Cities Commission as an aim of the Department will be concerned with cities, old and new. It will be concerned with new cities in regions. The Cities Commission will assist the promotion of regional development by the establishment of new cities. 
A major role of the Cities Commission will be to go out to State and local governments as a promoter of better ways of achieving urban and regional development The name 'Cities Commission' provides a sharp focus for its activities and one which gives it a separate identity from the Department. The suggested amendment would leave the Commission with a lengthy and cumbersome title and one which would cause the Commission and the Department to be confused. 
Motion (by  Mr Uren)  agreed to: 
That the committee's reasons be adopted. 
Yesterday I made a statement to the effect that the regions for applications by local governments for assistance under the Grants Commission would not be ready for at least 3 months. Of course, there will be provisions directly relating to this in the Budget, but they will be revealed by the Treasurer tonight. 
It is a fact that the Treasurer announced that an amount of $33m would be made available for our new cities program. 
I will be making a full statement tomorrow outlining all details. I understand that the honourable member has rung my office several times in regard to Albury-Wodonga. I have made public the amount that will be available. The amount available this financial year for Albury-Wodonga is $9m. Most of that $9m will be taken up with land acquisition and the establishment of a new development authority which will be a joint authority of the Australian Government, the New South Wales Government and the Victorian Government. There will be other Commonwealth investments in the Albury-Wodonga area through Commonwealth departments, particularly the PostmasterGeneral's Department and the Department of Civil Aviation and other departments. Increased expenditures in the area will be directed through other departments, including the Department of Housing through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, the Department of Education, the Department of Social Security and the Department of Health. The Minister for Tourism also has plans for the Albury-Wodonga area. Albury-Wodonga is only one of our growth centres. There will be others in all States. As I said, I will make a detailed statement tomorrow. 
My attention has been drawn to a statement by the Minister for Transport in Victoria to the effect that I should not meddle in State affairs.  His  comment related to my statement on freeways. The responsibility for the road policy of the Australian Government comes under the joint administration of my colleague the Minister for Transport and myself. We work as a partnership in that regard. The question of freeway and road investment in cities is important. One of the basic policies put forward by the Prime Minister at the last election was the Government's policy on cities. The Government believes that freeway and road policy is an important aspect of investment in cities. We realise that the motor car has to be accommodated for a lengthy period and we know from overseas experience that the motor car has become a monster in the inner city areas. 
The Australian Government is moving towards a policy of opposition to inner city freeways. It accepts the proposition that freeways have a role to play in the middle and outer areas of cities where they may circle major business areas; but it sees no future for inner-city freeways. I stress to this Parliament that the Australian Government's policy in regard to cities is that all its investment - whether that investment is in freeways and roads under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act, whether it is under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement, or whether it is in our new proposals for sewerage, in our new cities program, in our land commissions or under the Grants Commission - is interconnected. The Australian Government is involved in cities. We will be working in cooperation with State and local government authorities,. We want the 3 levels of government to work as a partnership because we believe that to be the only way that the problems of Australian cities can be solved. 
This is a very lengthy question and it would need a very lengthy reply. The honourable member has dealt with the new cities program and the question of the Grants Commission. It would take a considerable time to explain the policy of the Government in detail to the House. I will explain the philosophy behind the Grants Commission procedure. The Prime Minister has been saying for years that, while the claimant States have been claiming on the Australian Government because of the inequality between the differing States, there has been inequality within States. Therefore, our decision to allow regional areas to make claims on the Australian Government through the Grants Commission was based on that philosophy. Because my Department is a new department, as I intimated yesterday it will be approximately 3 months before the regions are denned in co-operation with the State governments. That is the position in regard to the Grants Commission. 
It is true to say that some areas will have a Commonwealth priority. We will select growth areas and urge that finance be diverted into those areas to attract industry and public servants. The people who move to those areas must have the best educational, cultural, recreational, social and industrial facilities. These areas will be priority areas. We have to follow this course if we want decentralisation to work. In 1947 the population of the rural areas of Australia represented 31 per cent of the population of Australia. Today, 26 years later - for 23 years of that period Australia was governed by administrations of the same political complexion as the ones of which the honourable member was a member - the figure is 14.7 per cent. Therefore, positive policies are needed to attract population to these new growth areas, if decentralisation is to function. 
'For the information of honourable members,  I  present a report from the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads on the effects of stopping freeway construction in State capital cities. 
For the information of honourable members, I present communiques relating to the meetings of the Ministerial Council, established to oversight the growth of the Albury-Wodonga areas, held at Albury, Canberra and Wodonga on 9 March, 23 May and 4 July 1973, respectively. 
 I move: 
This House if of the opinion that: 
That all words after 'That' (first occurring) be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
action should be taken forthwith to initiate the planning and design of the new and permanent Parliament House; 
the design should encompass the total building complex but should permit staged construction; &lt;c) the site for the new House should be on Camp Hill, to permit the use of the first stage in association with the existing building, and 
a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives should be convened to determine the matter by a majority of Senators and Members present at that meeting. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting its concurrence". 
The difference between my approach to the new and permanent parliament house and that of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is not just a question of where it is to be situated. The honourable member for Corio wants the site to be Capital Hill. Until late last night that is what his motion said. He changed his tactical position because he thought that he would not acquire the numbers in this House and so he sought a joint sitting because he thought that people in another place could bolster his numbers in this House. 
I am asking honourable members to support my amendment. If they support my amendment they will be accepting the principle that every member, whether he is a member of the Senate or a member of the House of Representatives, can express his view. But members of this House who support my amendment will show clearly that they support the concept of the Camp Hill site. I am not trying to railroad honourable members. In fact, before the winter recess I asked the honourable member for Corio to defer the motion so that I could inform honourable members of certain available details. I sent them a brochure in detailed form. I believe that the decision of this Parliament to locate the new parliament house anywhere other than on Camp Hill will result in Australia not having a -worthy parliament house until the end of this century. 
Honourable members know what our conditions are like now. All honourable members should have research staff and extra secretarial staff but there is not sufficient accommodation in this building to house those people now let alone in the year 2000. We cannot afford to approach this question of a new parliament house other than in a spirit of idealism tempered by practical common sense. I believe that the practical commonsense view of building a new parliament house is that outlined in my letter to all members of this Parliament and outlined in the brochure prepared by the National Capital Development Commission that accompanied that letter. One of the first actions I took as the Minister responsible for the National Capital Development Commission was to seek detailed information for all members of Parliament. My letter and the brochure were the outcome of that action. 
Let me summarise briefly the argument I put forward to senators and members. Firstly, the building we are in today is worn out and outdated. It was constructed in 1927 as a temporary building and those who built it expected it to last for not much longer than 25 years. Over the last 10 years a series of expedient and inefficient alterations have been carried out at a cost of $3. 7m. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard the details of this expenditure which were taken from an answer to a question which was placed on notice by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson). 

<graphic href="085131197308231_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. I will not give all the figures relating to the expenditure, but I want to stress the expenditure in the last 4 years alone. In 1969-70 it was just under $100,000, in 1970-71 it was in excess of $250,000, in 1971-72 it was nearly $lm and in 1972-73 it was $4. 3m, That is the huge expenditure that has been incurred on carrying out alterations and maintenance and making additions to this House. Despite these constant facelifts the building is hopelessly inadequate for any of us properly to perform our tasks on behalf of the people of Australia. In view of the recent change of government, both sides of this 'House now appreciate the impossible working conditions for both private members and Ministers and their staff. The staff of the Parliament itself is not better served. Indeed, I cannot conceive of any department or private company expecting its executives and staff to work efficiently under the conditions imposed by this outdated and inefficient building, and I am speaking of the position as it is today, not as it will be by the year 2000. 
Secondly, a joint select committee reported in 1970 on the requirements for a new building. This report is a detailed one and provides an excellent basis with which to gauge the scale of a new parliament house. It is obvious that if we are to embark upon the building of a new and permanent parliament house, on current prices the cost will be not less than $75m, and I stress that figure. But I estimate that the building would not be completed before the end of the century and the huge expenditure to which I have referred is based on current prices. I consider that it would be financially irresponsible on the part of any government to commit expenditure of this magnitude for the construction of a building which could not be used until almost the last dollar had been spent on it. 
I find it difficult to believe that there will ever be a time when the needs of the electorate will allow the Government to commit such a large capital outlay on a building which will not be used either by that Government or by a number of its successors. If we are to experience a major improvement in working conditions in Parliament House in the lifetime of many of us here today, I believe that the construction of the new and permanent parliament house must be staged. We must make decisions this year. In the event of a recommendation being made by both Houses of the Parliament, I will make a submission to Cabinet by December of this year recommending that the planning and design of a new and permanent parliament house be commenced forthwith. I will be submitting that the design of the new parliament house should be the subject of a 2-stage national architectural competition. We must involve our best architects in this national project. We must give our architects the opportunity to design what will be an outstanding building. 
In my letter to senators and members I have suggested that the first stage of the building could be built for a sum of about $24m - an annual Budget provision of $6m over 4 years. This first stage would provide new office accommodation for senators and members and the Executive as well as new refreshment and amenity rooms and bookstack accommodation for the Parliamentary Library. If we act now this will be available by the end of 1979. In fact, we will have better accommodation within our time. If members accept my argument that a new parliament house will be built only if it is built in stages, then I believe that members will agree with me that the only practical site of the 3 proposed is Camp Hill. 
Capital Hill is half a mile from the present building. The lakeside site is about the same distance. A parliament house built at either of these 2 distant points would require the virtual completion of the new building before those who come after us would be able to pack up their books and papers and move in. A parliament house built on Camp Hill in stages would allow the blending in of the old with the new. The design would allow for the old building to continue being used until the final stage of the new building was completed and a decision was made by some future group of members and senators to remove the old building. The new building on Camp Hill will give those who come after us flexibility in making future decisions about the present building. I do not want to speak at any great length, and for the short time available I want to mention the qualities of the Camp Hill site, apart from its practical advantages. Camp Hill was the original site selected by Walter Burley Griffin. 
Although the Camp Hill site has only 60 acres as against the Capital Hill site of 85 acres, there is more than enough room on Camp Hill for all the uses required. Many of the characteristics of the Capital Hill site are to be found at the Camp Hill site. Some people feel that Capital Hill is a symbol, and in the previous debate I went along with this view. I want to stress to honourable members that in the previous debate I supported the concept of building the new parliament house on Capital Hill. It is only because of my responsibilities and the detailed examination that I have made of the practical application to improve the conditions of workers and members in this House that I have come firmly to the decision to support the concept of building the new parliament house on Camp Hill. However, I feel that this is not the time for dominant symbols. Already the Postmaster-General's Department has proposed a dominant symbol on Black Mountain which does not please me at all. It is time that we considered the involvement of people. 
Unlike Capital Hill, the Camp Hill site has a large square in which people could assemble, and everybody knows that I like participation by the people; I like to see people participating and assembling before our Parliament. In the brochure that I sent to senators and members there is a diagram which shows the relationship of this square to a new parliament house on Camp Hill, and to the Library, the Art Gallery, the High Court and Government buildings. We want to be able to invite people to express their views in the parliamentary square. I feel that Camp Hill allows this expansiveness as much as, if not more than, the Capital Hill site. Like Capital Hill, it gives us an uninterrupted view across the lake to the War Memorial and to Mount Ainslie. It gives an expansiveness and the feeling that we are not closed in; that in fact this is the capital and we are the Parliament representing a large and great nation. This is the feeling that I think we should have. Both the Capital Hill site and the Camp Hill site equally allow for this concept. 
Frankly, I think that Camp Hill is a fine site. To those of my colleagues who still want to adhere to .the Capital Hill site, I believe that what I am suggesting is a fair compromise and is the only common sense answer to the problems that we have here in Canberra. I was a back bencher of the Opposition for 15 years and know better than many present Opposition back benchers the difficult conditions experienced in this House. Honourable members opposite who were Ministers in the previous Government understand such working conditions but we all know that sometimes the work has to be done in those circumstances. This is not a partisan motion. I want to improve the conditions of all parliamentarians and the performance- of Parliament as a whole. I ask my colleagues here and in another place to endorse the Camp Hill site so that we may get on with planning and designing a new Australian parliament house. I ask for support of my amendment and opposition to the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio. 
by leave - This is the first time in the history of our nation, apart from Canberra, that the Australian Government has stepped into the area of new city development by direct budgetary allocations. The full history of the debate which has led up to this involvement by the Australian Government has still to be told. Some of us have been firmly convinced for many years that the case for new cities has been unassailable. For the past 2 decades at least, all political parties in Australia have talked about decentralisation at great length but little has been attempted. Originally, the rationale for decentralisation was explained in terms of halting the population drift from the country. Nowadays that rationale is still applicable, but that justification has been overladen by the more pressing need to divert population away from overcrowded cities. I stress that Sydney and Melbourne particularly have felt this acute over-centralisation. 
There can be no doubt that the 2 crisis points at the moment are Sydney and Melbourne which are suffering from all the ills of over-centralisation - soaring land prices, lagging services, air and water pollution, lack of recreational space and so on. Probably the most immediate reason for the failure of any new city development to be launched in the past has been governments' reliance upon dispersed measures which has meant that scarce resources have been spread thinly over many areas with little effect. Between 1947 and 1970 the population of the non-urban areas in Australia declined from 31 per cent to 14.7 per cent of Australia's total population. What was so clearly necessary was what all governments, and particularly the previous Australian Government, failed to do. This was to select and promote a certain number of growth centres. To the exasperation of the citizens of congested cities and to the despair of the people in the country areas, no commitment was made by previous governments to a meaningful policy of new city development, except in repeated platitudes and cliches. 
This Government has made its commitment. In this Budget the commitment stands at S33m. It is only a beginning in our program. One of the major planks of our election platform, and the chief reason for the 
Australian Labor Party winning the last election, was our commitment to the improvement of the quality of life and standards of service in existing cities. Our new cities program is only one part of our overall urban and regional development strategy. Monies which are allocated for new city development in this Budget result from studies carried out by the Cities Commission. One of the chief roles of the Cities Commission is to conduct studies of regional areas. As I said in my second reading speech on the Cities Commission Bill last April, these studies will be undertaken for a variety of reasons. Some studies assess regions as potential growth centres capable of rapid population growth. Some studies consider strategies for development which may be already taking place. Other studies assess proposals for financial support put to the Australian Government. Some studies collect necessary information about particular regions. 
At present, the Cities Commission is conducting studies in all States. The first report of the Cities Commission will be tabled in the House later in September. The studies which the Commission has been undertaking have necessarily been ''broad brush' in treatment and have been intended as the first steps only in a systematic program of investigations into urban and regional problems throughout Australia. On the basis of these initial studies the Government has been able to allocate money to all States. I should point out that the money is intended for 2 broad types of operation. The first is what we call regional growth centres, which comprise new city development at a substantial distance from existing city development. The second may be called system cities, which are intended as substantially self-contained cities on the fringes of existing metropolitan areas. Subject to the areas selected for assistance in this program being acceptable to the various State governments, and subject to mutually acceptable arrangements for it being worked out between the Australian Government and respective State governments, the national Government is allocating $33m in its new city program as repayable loans. 
As I pointed out in my speech on the Cities Commission Bill, the importance of land price stabilisation in areas being studied as possible growth centres cannot be overemphasised. Although the carrying out of a study does not imply a commitment by the Australian Government to support the area as a growth centre, it can lead to speculation. The activities of speculators could result in defeating policies for the support of the particular growth centre. I have spoken about regional growth centres. In this Budget the Australian Government is making a total allocation of finance of $9m for the support of the new city complex of Albury-Wodonga. The national Government has identified Albury-Wodonga as its major priority in the regional growth centre program. We believe that a target population of at least 300,000 is a viable proposition for Albury-Wodonga. In this first year the majority of money will be spent on land acquisition although a certain proportion has been set aside for expenditure on selected public works. This figure does not include the cost of any projects which the Australian Government might finance under the regular programs of other Federal instrumentalities. 
Leaving aside Albury-Wodonga, we are proposing a total provision of S9.4m to be allocated to New South Wales. This money is to be allocated to the system city areas of the Holsworthy - Menai - CampbelltownCamdenAppin corridor and the Gosford-Wyong complex north of Sydney, and the regional growth centre of Bathurst-Orange. I am pleased to say that New South Wales has announced its intention to introduce land price stabilisation legislation to apply to all these areas. It agreed to stabilise land prices on 3 October 1972. That will be the base price that the Commonwealth will pay, adjusted in line with the normal cost of living increases. Farmers or other people who have to move when their land is acquired will be paid a displacement amount. 
In Victoria, apart from Albury-Wodonga, the Government has in mind a total provision of $5m for the period 1973-74. This money is to be allocated to 2 areas - Geelong and the Melbourne south-east sector. The Cities Commission has found that the acquisition of critical lands to the south-east of Melbourne, either for recreation or for conservation and scenic reasons, would offer the strongest available guarantee of the continued protection of the Dandenong Ranges, Westernport Bay and the Mornington Peninsula. The need for recreation land near Melbourne is particularly important, and the preservation of the Mornington Peninsula and the Dandenongs is a matter of some urgency. Unlike Sydney, which has 4 major national parks within 100km of the heart of the city, the only national parks near Melbourne are Kinglake, which is relatively small, and Wilson's Promontory. Acquiring certain other areas in this corridor will also provide a means of channelling the inevitable population growth into more desirable patterns than those becoming evident at present. 
The Government intends to promote a growth centre in an area near Geelong. Although the Victorian Government has introduced legislation for land price stabilisation in the Wodonga area it has yet to announce its intention to do the same for other selected growth areas in that State. I would like to make it perfectly clear that the support of the Australian Government for the promotion of a Geelong growth centre is dependent upon the Victorian Government announcing its intention to introduce legislation for land price stabilisation. And it is most important that the legislation which is introduced in Victoria - and this comment applies to other Sates as well - sets an appropriate base value. This should be the value at a date related to the earliest announcements or reports in the case of each growth centre. The base value in Albury-Wodonga is 3 October 1972, and the New South Wales Government has announced that this date will apply to other growth centres in that State. But for all growth centres the legislation should make sure that the stable door is closed well before the horse wants to bolt. In the case of Geelong, this should mean a date not later than yesterday - the day on which the Victorian Government through  Mr Hunt,  the Victorian Minister for Local Government, issued a formal statement of planning policy identifying the Geelong region as a location for large scale urban growth. 
We seek the development of the growth centre to be under the administration of a development corporation. This corporation will be the result of co-operation between the Australian and Victorian Governments and could operate under the same or similar principles as the development corporation which has been agreed to in the Albury-Wodonga growth centres. The Australian Government sees the development of a growth centre at Geelong as an important instrument in our attempt to slow down the growth of Melbourne. Other important areas will also have to be brought into focus. I am having discussions with  Mr Murray  Byrne, the Victorian 
Minister for State Development and Decentralisation, to have further study areas selected in Victoria. If these studies are successful, again the aim would be to divert population growth away from the Melbourne metropolitan area. The Government believes that the development of selected growth centres in Victoria can make a major contribution to relieving pressures on Melbourne's growth. We intend Geelong to be a step in this process, along with Albury-Wodonga. We hope other future areas could be under way before 1975. But I want to stress I will be seeking to have a stabilisation of land prices in each area under study. 
I now turn to the other States in which assistance will be provided for growth centres in 1973-74. In Queensland, 3 regions have been under study - Townsville, the Fitzroy Region, which includes Gladstone and Rockhampton, and the Moreton region. The national Government wishes to make an allocation of $4.4m to Queensland during 1973- 74 for assistance to these areas. Such assistance would include money for land acquisition, sewerage and water supply, and social facilities such as improved public transport, hospital facilities and child-minding centres. The South Australian Government has selected the town of Monarto for new city development and has introduced legislation to provide both for land price stabilisation and the setting up of a development corporation to plan and develop the new centre. The Government intends to provide SI. 2m for this centre in 1973-74. In Western Australia, the Government has in mind a total provision of $3. 5m for assistance to Perth and Salvado generally for land acquisition. The Cities Commission is continuing to carry out studies in the Albany, Geraldton and Bunbury areas. In Tasmania, the Government intends to give assistance for land purchase, planning and other works in the Tamar region, of the order of $0.5m in 1973-74 
This Government does not believe that one can formulate policies on cities by concentrating exclusively on new cities. Urban problems cannot be solved by such an exclusive approach. The present Government recognises that there are urgent and severe problems in the existing cities. They can only be attacked by policies which both concentrate on the existing cities and are supported by policies for new regional centres. The major initiatives which this Government is now taking in cities should be seen as one interconnected parcel of policies. I want to stress that it is an interconnected parcel. This is one of the great strengths of our attitude towards cities. We do not intend to make and review policies on such things as roads, housing, sewerage and land in isolation. 
The Australian Government is involved in urban investments through various agreements. Through our new initiatives we shall be involved in many more investments in urban areas. I am speaking of such things as the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement - a new agreement will be entered into next year; the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement which has been successfully negotiated by my colleague the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson);  our proposed subsidy for urban public transport that the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  has also negotiated; our sewerage program; our policies on land commissions; assistance for the National Estate - in co-operation with State governments, local government, the private sector, private companies and private individuals, we want to preserve what has been created by man and by nature; and, of course, our new cities program. These must be seen as interconnected investments in order to ensure the most efficient return from these investments, and to ensure more equal distribution of opportunities within urban areas. 
I am not underestimating the difficulty of the task before us or the expensive nature of the undertakings we have made. But in the long term, these undertakings are an investment for all the people of our nation. If the program of building new cities is to be successful the sustained and combined support of political leaders at all levels of government over many years is essential. I seek the support of this House and of State and local governments for this historic and vital program of growth centre development in our nation. I present the following paper: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The investigations referred to above are detailed technical assessments and are not normally published. The Commission would be pleased to discuss them withinterested persons. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The Department of 'Urban and Regional Development occupies space on a sub-lease basis in a privately owned bulding in Canberra. The rental is at the rate of $5.00 per square foot. No other accommodation is occupied outside Canberra. 
The Cities Commission leases accommodation in three buildings in Canberra at a range from $4.60 to $6.25 per square foot with the average being $5.18 per square foot. 
The National Capital Development Commission leases accommodation in three buildings in Canberra. The range of rentals paid is from $2.20 to $5.00 per square foot wtih an average rental of $4.42 per square foot. Some of this space is sublet 
It disturbs me that a man of the calibre of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  should in this House defend developers. I can give details to show that the honourable member was in fact in this House tonight quoting the case for the West Australian land developers. I am disappointed to think that an honourable member would speak in such a way knowing of the land speculation that is going on in that State, just as it is going on in every other State and capital city. The honourable member has criticised legislation that has been introduced by the Western Australian Government. I ask him to check the details. For example, the honourable member for Gwydir complained about the Land Control Bill which is in fact based on the industrial Development (Kwinana Area) Act which was introduced by the Liberal Government in Western Australia in 1952.  1  ask the honourable member to check his facts and not be a stooge for any organisation. 
I have no wish to attack any honourable member in this House, but I ask them not to be used and to check, the facts before they use them. I am disappointed that the honourable member for Gwydir has been misguided on this matter. The attack he made is not unfamiliar to me. The points have been made before in a report by the Land Legislation Study Group in Western Australia. Despite its grandiose title this group is nothing more than a front for some very large land developers. It disappoints me greatly - indeed in the case of the honourable member it surprises me - that he would stand up in this House to carry the banner for land developers who have been exploiting our young people for so long. We know the real pressure that is being placed on young people. Under the guise of concern for individual freedom in general, the honourable member is in fact supporting the few - those few who have exploited the ordinary Australian whose only wish is to own his own block of land and to build his own house on it. This Government does not support those exploiters. Those who are now speaking about the rights of the individual should examine what choices are open to the individual or young married couples under the present system. What freedom do they have to choose where they want to live? 
Does the honourable member or any member of this House doubt that the present system is inequitable? Can any honourable member doubt that the present system is inefficient? It is because of this that the Australian Government is trying to find ways to assist the States and local government to develop urban areas. The Land Control Bill which has been introduced in Western Australia is basically a Bill to provide for public acquisition of substantial areas of land for urban development. Under the Bill landholders will not be able to make speculative profits. This is the purpose of the Bill. That is the provision that the honourable member therefore is complaining about. Let me assure this House that this Government does not believe that speculative profits are just. Other members who persist in attacking this legislation apparently believe they are. Again the old bogy of centralisation is dragged out. We are charged with wanting to control urban development, with wanting to freeze land prices and with wanting to set up huge bureaucracies in Canberra. This is not just a facile argument; it is dishonest, and I say to the honourable member for Gwydir that it is dishonest. It is a bogy that has been dragged out in place of analysis. 
I ask the honourable member to assess and analyse the situation and not bring out a bogy. Centralism is the bogy which has replaced the communism bogy of the past. Honourable members opposite have only hysteria and not facts. Both bogies are equally discreditable. There is no chance of control from Canberra, and the honourable member for Gwydir knows it. The whole problem of land prices is one in which the States have the power to provide some of the solutions - I emphasise the words 'some of the solutions'. The possibility of making urban development more efficient is an area where the States have the power to provide some of the solutions, and again I stress the words 'some of the solutions'. Up until now, they have not chosen to do so. Let there be no mistake about this. The Australian Government has no power to freeze land prices. I stress the point that we have no power to freeze or even to stabilise land prices. However, the States have the power to do both, if they desire to do so. We are urging them to take steps to stabilise land prices - that is, to introduce land price stabilisation legislation. 
On 25 January this year the Liberal Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria,  Sir Robert  Askin and  Mr Hamer,  met the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and myself and the respective State Ministers. We argued and both Premiers agreed that legislation for land stabilisation in Albury-Wodonga should be introduced. We believe that this decision and the principle underlying it should be extended. I might point out to the House that, unlike the Western Australian developer, a number of large and progressive developers have welcomed our initiatives. This is no different from what had been happening here in Canberra for 50 years prior to 1 January 1971, until the honourable member for Gwydir, as Minister for the Interior and his Government destroyed this system and this legislation. 
Discussions between my Department and all States have been under way throughout this year. We are offering the States the opportunity to do something about spiralling land prices. We are offering the States the opportunity to do something about the wasteful pattern of urban development in our major cities. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a working paper on the possible operation of land price stabilisation legislation  which my departmental officers have used as the basis for their discussions with respective State officials. 
I thank the House. This document represents the basis of our discussions with the States to try to bring about some understanding and agreement between both parties. We in the Australian Government believe that this problem can be solved only in a spirit of co-operation at both levels. I ask all honourable members to examine this document. 
When I hear complaints about the Federal Government seeking representation on State bodies and when I hear complaints about the Federal Government wanting to provide some conditions to its financial grants, I can only say that those who complain are asking the Federal Government to act irresponsibly. The Australian people do not expect any government to give money without also thinking about responsibility for the way in which it is spent. If any State does not want to accept the funds it is perfectly free to do so. These agreements with the States are bilateral. 
The discussions which my Department is having with the respective States are designed to introduce a new system of urban development in Australia. This system, we believe, is more equitable and more efficient than the system that now exists. This Government not only supports, but wishes to promote, the freedom of individuals to choose and to be able to purchase their own home on their own block of land. 
The last lie is this: The honourable member for Gwydir knew because I told him prior to the discussion of the statement I made about new cities that there would be loans and grants, that the loans would be at the long term Commonwealth bond interest rate, that  in the early years the interest repayments would be deferred and that in the later years the interest would be capitalised. We believe that until such time as the land has started to pay for itself in the new cities, having interest repayments in the early years would be a burden on the people in those areas. We want the cities to be efficient and equitable. We want them to be places where people are not being subsidised by centralised government. Cities should be places where it is pleasant to live. This is our attitude because we do not want a repetition of the situation in Sydney where young people cannot buy a block of land for less than $10,000 or $12,000. We want to see young people acquire a block of land without putting themselves in bond for the rest of their lives. 
-I made reference to the Tamar region during my ministerial speech on new cities. In that speech I said that $500,000 would be made available for Tasmania and that there would be further study in the Tamar Valley and other study areas in Tasmania. There will also be money made available to the Tamar Valley in our sewerage program. Also in regard to that valley there will be an examination by the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government as to whether land will be acquired by the Lands Commission. 
I do not want to talk about the church. I do not want to talk about the things the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  wanted to talk about. I do not want to talk about those issues that have dominated conservative parties since Queen Victoria's era. I want to 'talk about people and urban living. This Budget has begun the long term process of restructuring the Australian economy and reforming Australian society. Unlike the Budgets of our predecessors, it is not designed for short term political gains. Rather, it begins a process which the Australian people elected us to carry out. 
Last November we promised to re-create our nation. In opening the Australian Labor Party's campaign, the Leader of our Party said: 
It's time for a new team, a new program, a new drive for equality of opportunities; it's time to create new opportunities for Australians, time for a new vision of what we can achieve in this generation for our nation, and tide region in which we live. 
We as a Government are therefore committed to change. This Budget symbolises a first step in that commitment. It begins the long term restructuring that was so clearly necessary to the majority of voters in the last election. It should be seen as a first step in this long term process. Nowhere is this process better demonstrated than in my own area of urban and regional development. Under the heading of 'Cities', the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has announced an allocation of $136m for the next financial year. Most of the programs under this heading are historic for a national government in Australia. This is the first time they have been attempted or for which allocations have been made in a budgetary program such as this. 
I do not want to try to deal with the whole range of our program in the short time available to me. Rather, I want to concentrate on our policies relating to land and land commissions. There are 3 great principles which underlie our policies on the cities: Firstly, this Government believes that the national Government must involve itself directly in cities; secondly, this Government believes that we must bring about changes in our cities which will make them more efficient; and, thirdly, this Government believes that we must bring about changes in our cities which will give more equal opportunities for people to enjoy living in them. 
In Australia the pattern of urban growth has been determined largely by the accidents of history and the activities of the market-place. The development and growth of our cities has resulted in real income being transferred from the poor to the rich. In recent years, these income transfers have become massive. Only last week I read where it is claimed that Melbourne's land boom has made 30 people millionaires in the past year. This has been achieved through no effort of their own, but simply by being in a position to exploit people's basic need for shelter. An example could be given where this has happened in every State, particularly in the capitals of the States. The faster the population growth, the greater the fortunes amassed. This situation reminds me of a learned parliamentarian who once said: 
Unearned increments in land value are not the only form of undeserved profit but they are the principle form and they are derived from processes which are positively detrimental to the general public. 
And at last the land becomes ripe for sale, and that means the price becomes too tempting to be resisted any longer. 
And then . . . and not until then ... is it sold by the inch or by the yard at 10-50 times its true value. 
This evil process strikes at every form of activity. 
The more a municipality has improved the area, the more it will have to pay, for any land now required for future improvements. 
And no matter where you look or what examples you select, you will see that every form of enterprise, every step in material progress, is only undertaken after the land owner has skimmed the cream off for himself. 
And everywhere today the man or the public body who wishes to put the land to its highest use is forced to pay a preliminary fine to the man who is putting it to an inferior use and, in some cases, to no use at all. 
And  its  owner is able to levy toll upon all other forms of wealth and any other form of industry. 
Land which is a necessity of human existence, which is 'the urban source of wealth, but is strictly limited in extent, and which is fixed in geographic position, differs from all other forms of property. 
A land owner who happens to own a plot of land on the outskirts of a big city, watches the busy population around him making the city larger and more famous every, day and, all the while, he sits still and does nothing. 
Roads are made, services are improved and water is brought from reservoirs a hundred miles away. 
He renders no service to the community, he contributes nothing to the general welfare, he contributes nothing to the process from which his own enrichment is derived. 
The population of the city grows and keeps on growing. 
I have heard this learned parliamentarian quoted with great respect by members on the other side of the House. The words are those of  Sir Winston  Churchill. I ask the honourable members opposite: Do they disagree with this point of view? I believe his remarks are just as relevant in Australia today as when he made them in Britain over 50 years ago. 
For those who still question why the Government wants to be involved in urban development, the short answer is that Adam Smith died 183 years ago. The conditions for the success of the old laissez-faire doctrines have long since disappeared. Private enterprise no longer goes unchecked, nor does it go unaided. There is no going back on this. A classically competitive urban land market is inconceivable. The public sector must give leadership. It must play a leading role in determining how a metropolitan area should develop. The whole process of urban development involves location. Therefore land values and land use are key elements. The rapidly rising price of land in our capital cities is something which disturbs this Government and distresses the young people over the length and breadth of this country who are saving for a home. 
There is an alternative. That alternative was on show here in Canberra - until the Gorton.McEwen Government destroyed it in 1970 and 1971. Properly managed, we believe that the method of urban development used in Canberra is the most efficient and most equitable available in this nation. This is why the Government is negotiating with each State to establish land commissions which will buy substantial tracts of land needed for urban development. Land acquired by these commissions will be made available fully serviced at a fair price. South Australia and Western Australia have already introduced legislation to create land commissions. Our policies on land form part of our urban policies. What we have to do is to change the rules of the game. Urban development needs to be planned so that it does not take place simply as the consequence of pressure by major landholders for rezoning. 
One of the chief characteristics of the growth of our cities is that often the sequence of development is private initiative for profit followed by a harried and strained public investment in basic infrastructure. If the honourable member who has been interjecting wants an example of this, he should look at the Gold Coast of Queensland. In the Gold Coast, there is private affluence and public squalor. Over 84 per cent of that area is unsewered, yet private speculation still runs rife. So, there is a great need for governments to be able to co-ordinate the provision of services to developing areas. In order to get an efficient co-ordination and provision of services, governments ought to be able to identify specific areas for development. 
Before these areas are publicly identified, the price of land should be stabilised. Under the freehold system the present planning system is a blueprint for speculation. This is one of the major reasons why we in the Australian Government must change the rules of the game. Land commissions and the land price stabilisation legislation which we are encouraging the States to pass are the means by which we can achieve better co-ordination and better planning. Ultimately, they are the means by which we will enable young people to enter the land market at a cheaper price. This Government does not believe that speculative profits are just. 
The whole problem of land prices is one in which the States have the power to provide some of the solutions. Until now they have not chosen to do so. The Australian Government has no power to freeze land prices or even to stabilise land prices. However, the States have the power to do both. The Aus tralian Government is not asking the States to freeze land prices. The land price stabilisation legislation which we are urging the States to adopt should set out a formula for the price to be paid for land which is acquired within a designated site. 
There are 2 essential components of the acquisition price. The first component is the base value', that is, the value of the land at the date of the initial proclamation. Secondly there is a value increase factor which can be expressed as a percentage of the base value and should be tied to an index of inflation. The aim of land price stabilisation legislation therefore is to identify general areas where urban growth is being considered by a State government, apply land price stabilisation legislation for a specified period, conduct a study of the area and if the study is successful proclaim a designated site. This of course is being done in the Albury-Wodonga area and we hope that it is also being done in the Bathurst-Orange area by co-operation between the Australian Government and the governments of New South Wales and Victoria in the first instance, and co-operation between the Australian and New South Wales governments in the second instance. 
In this way we hope to reduce the high level of speculation which occurs in possible future growth areas. If this can be done, the average home seeker will have a much better chance of buying a block of land at a fair price. The land commissions program and the new cities program are joint Australian and State government programs. They are programs to provide the States with funds for land acquisition which they have never had before. This is the first Budget allocation to the States for this requirement. They now have no excuse to avoid taking positive action. In addition, there is much the State governments could have done towards meeting the problem of the high price of land for housing. If the States are really serious about the problem of inflation, if they are really serious about the problem of young people trying to buy a home, these are the sorts of policies they could adopt. Not only that, they could do it within a few months. 
Firstly, they should show what is happening in the land market. They can do this by simply publishing the appropriate statistics on land prices, on the rezoning of land and the subdivision of land. Secondly, they should identify to what extent the present inflation is caused by a real shortage of housing land relative to the volume of new housing commencements and to what extent the inflation is caused by excessive demand through land speculation. Thirdly, where the land price inflation is caused by a real shortage in housing land, the governments could adopt a number of measures to increase the effective supply of land. They can do this by streamlining their present machinery of planning, thereby reducing delays in the development process. They can do it by encouraging the land owners sitting on land suitable for subdivision actually to subdivide it and sell. Fourthly, . the States can assist in reducing the amount of trading in blocks of land. For example, one public-spirited developer has suggested curtailing the transfer of subdivided blocks until a home has been built on it. 
These are all examples of policies which the States could adopt where land price inflation is caused by a real shortage of housing land. These are State powers. They are not Federal powers. We do not possess them, but the States have ample powers to take such action. They are measures which any State which is serious about its concern for land price inflation can quickly bring to bear on the market. Where land price inflation is being caused by excessive demand through land speculation the State governments should adopt land price stabilisation legislation. 

 Mr Speaker, I have outlined the principles behind the policies which this Budget has set in train. Altogether the Budget provides for up to $8 8m for land acquisition alone in the current financial year. Through our negotiations with the States we are seeking a better way to develop our cities, old and new. We are also allocating $62m to catch up on the backlog of sewerage services, and improve urban public transport. The Australian Government seeks the co-operation of the States to work as a partnership in order to achieve a more efficient allocation of resources, and to achieve a more equitable form of urban development. It is the States which can make a real contribution. The States could do it in their own right. We, however, regard the problem as so serious and so urgent that we consider the best way of dealing with it is a partnership between the Australian Government and the State governments. 
Through the process of co-operative federalism the Australian and State governments together can solve these problems. Together, the Australian and State governments can achieve what all Australians would want them to achieve - to give Australian families access to land and housing at fair prices. The financial allocations of this Budget demonstrate the willingness of the Government to achieve this goal. What is now necessary is that State leaders act for people, not land developers. They must take an enlightened approach to the problem. The crisis we face in land prices requires that all responsible political leaders try to break down barriers of distrust and work together so that young people may have an opportunity to acquire a block of land on which to construct a home. 
The State governments have the opportunity of joining with the Australian Government in setting up land commissions and in the development of our new cities. There are no immediate solutions to the land crisis in Australia. The mishandling of 23 years cannot be corrected in 5 minutes. There are no 'instant coffee' solutions to any of our urban problems. But the land commissions and new cities programs are only a beginning. They are an alternative. There is another way. Let us begin through this Budget the other way - the way that is more efficient and fairer for all the people of our land. 
A decision was made by Cabinet approximately 2 months ago to acquire a site at Parramatta for an Australian Government centre. This will replace the Commonwealth centre that was to have been located at Woolloomooloo and, of course, it is in conformity with the policy of the Australian Labor Party, set out by our Leader before the last elections, that we would locate a major Australian Government centre at Parramatta. We took this decision in the early part of this Parliament. We had an investigation made and acquired that site. The decision is in line with our philosophy. For too long Australian governments have concentrated on the overcentralisation of Sydney's central business district. They permitted insurance companies and foreign investors to invest in the central business district. I instance the redevelopment of Woolloomooloo, Kings Cross, the Rocks area and North Sydney. This type of overcentralisation would create only greater prob lems in the sprawl of Sydney and therefore we decided as a matter of policy in the field or urban affairs to establish a rational transport system. We thought that by establishing a rational transport system we could use areas such as Parramatta, Penrith, Liverpool and Campbelltown as a catalyst to achieve a balanced development of the Sydney area. 
I have seen the newspaper reports referred to by the honourable member, but I have not been informed of the full details of the Queensland Government's proposed plans to try to bring land on to the market so that young people can obtain land at a fair price. My officers are seeking details from the Co-ordinator-General's Department in Queensland, and when I am in possession of the facts, I will be able to report to the Parliament. In regard to the matter of land being subdivided in the Townsville and Moreton areas, studies have been carried out by the Cities Commission. The reports in respect of those areas will be tabled late this month. We are seeking the co-operation of the Queensland Government by joining with us in a joint venture so that land can be acquired in the Townsville and Moreton areas and made available to people at a reasonable price. In the Brisbane City Council area the Australian Government has land which is under the administration of the Minister for Services and Property, and that land will be examined. Discussions in regard to land also have taken place with the Lord Mayor of Brisbane. Of course, the Brisbane City Council already is a large landholder. Further negotiations are going on with the Brisbane City Council to try to make land available to the people of Brisbane at a reasonable price. 
I am aware that the Berwick Council wants to create a metro-town with a population of something like 70,000 on the south-eastern corridor. Basically this is a good concept. Discussions have taken place between the Australian Government and the Victorian Government. We have sought a stabilisation of land prices before any decision is made. Unless this area, which is a rather beautiful area, is contained it will be badly ruptured by land speculators and by ad hoc development. Therefore we are seeking the co-operation of the Victorian Government. In the near future there will be discussions between the Minister for Local Government,  Mr Hunt,  and myself, and certain decisions will be made in regard to growth areas, whether they be systems cities - that means cities that will be developed on the fringes of Melbourne - or regional growth centres, which also will be discussed with the Minister for State Development and Decentralisation,  Mr Murray  Byrne. So I will be talking with 2 Ministers in Victoria. The prerequisite will be stabilisation of land prices before any major study is undertaken. When the study is completed a decision can be made in consultation between the 2 Governments on whether to develop these areas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prime Minister wrote to all the Premiers last December requesting information on the extent of Federal assistance required by the principal water and sewerage authorities to enable them to embark promptly and economically on an uninterrupted program to provide services to all the premises in their area by 1978. 
(a) 
The States generally requested assistance in overcoming the sewerage backlog (i.e. reducing the number of unsewered properties). However, the major problem, particularly in the capital cities, is the treatment of sewage, and all States require funds for this purpose. South Australia also faces a major problem, as the quality of its water supply continues to deteriorate, and a major part of any funds allocated by the Commonwealth to the State would be spent on water treatment. In all cases, sewerage cannot be looked at in isolation; water supply and drainage are essentially related factors in any attempts to reduce the sewerage backlog problem. 
In the replies received from the States, there was considerable variation in the requests for financial assistance. Some States restricted their requests to sewerage only, whilst others made allowance for both water supply and drainage in preparing their budget. Some States also made an allowance for cost escalation, whilst others did not. It appears that elimination of the sewerage backlog in the major urban areas (population 60,000 and over) will require funds of the order of $800m, rising to $ 1,000m if urban areas of less than 60,000 population are included. This is in addition to what the principal utilities authorities can provide from their likely resources. 
As there has been considerable variation in the replies received from the States, and time has not allowed more complete information to be obtained, emphasis has been placed on the first year (1973-74) of the period in mind. The Australian Government has offered the States assistance totalling $30m in 1973-74 towards elimination of the sewerage backlog in the principal urban areas. The funds will be provided for specific projects approved by the Australian Government. The distribution between States is as follows: 
I am aware of the criticism. When the Australian Government allocated funds for sewerage works it took into consideration the pressure on resources of both men and materials. Therefore we set a target of $30m for the whole of Australia but we also took into consideration that if both men and materials were available to carry out works at a cost in excess of $30m, more finance would be made available by the Australian Government. In Western Australia, $3. 8m was made available. Our objectives are that in the coming years there will be an upward trend in the allocation of money into such areas. We will try to meet the target date of 1978 set by the Prime Minister but the State authorities have agreed that probably it will take until 1980 or the early 1980s to achieve our aim because of the pressure on resources, both men and materials. 
There have been discussions between the Treasurer and myself in regard to the siting of the note printing plant for the Reserve Bank. A great deal of study was made previously in regard to locating it 15 miles north of Melbourne at a place called Craigieburn. This is, of course, on the main line corridor between Melbourne and Sydney. Another proposal has also been put forward for its siting at Warragul the gateway of the Latrobe Valley. The Government is still considering this matter. We believe that both sites are good sites. Until further investigation is made by the Government, the Government will not be making a statement on this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  01)(a) None, but an urban rehabilitation scheme is being considered in both Sydney and Melbourne and discussions are presently being conducted with the relevant authorities, (b), (c) and (d) At this stage we have not carried out a survey of renewal projects being conducted by State Governments, local governments and private enterprise. The information should therefore be sought from these bodies, (e) See 1 (a) above. 
See answer to (1) above. 
For the information of honourable members, pursuant to section 23 of the Cities Commission Act 1972-1973, I present the first annual report of the Cities commission for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Cities Commission Act 1972-1973, I present the report by the Cities Commission on matters relating to urban and regional development. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The acquisition procedures have been instigated following Government approval of the project on 21 August 1973. 
The anticipated completion date of the Dam is late 1976. The treated water from the reservoir is scheduled to be available to Canberra and Queanbeyan towards the end of 1977. 
Australian GovernmentDigest  (Question No. 850) 
My attention has been drawn to the statement made by the Minister for Decentralisation in New South Wales. He mentioned one case of a firm in Albury - Twin Disc. (Pacific) Pty Ltd. This company has not lodged an application to the Department of Secondary Industry following the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut. It could make such a request to the Department, which has informed me that it would examine the case. Might I state clearly, in regard to the broader statement by the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation that the policies of the Australian Government are directed against decentralisation, that the claim is completely false. 
Unlike the policy of the Parties sitting opposite when in government, our policies support decentralisation directly. In the past 25 years, for 23 years of which the Parties now in Opposition governed this country, the non-urban area population of Australia fell from 31 per cent of our total population to 14.7 per cent. The reason for this decline is that the former Government supported a policy of dispersed decentralisation - of spreading the icing thinly over the cake. The Labor Party has clearly identified its policy of support for the establishment of growth centres. 
The Leader of the Country Party interjects to state his attitude. The trouble with Country Party members is that they want their cake and want to eat it too. In the course of the consideration of the Cities Commission legalisation I asked the Leader of the Country Party whether he supported dispersed decentralisation. 
On the one hand he supports selected growth centres; on the other, he supports dispersed decentralisation. Unfortunately, he cannot have both. 
Country Party members - Rubbish! 
My attention has been drawn to the 'Newcastle Morning Herald' report. The interim report of the Bureau of Roads was tabled on 22 August this year. The attitude of the Bureau of Roads did differ slightly from that adopted by the Minister for Transport and me, but I have been informed verbally by officers of the Bureau of Roads that the full report will clarify their attitude and will clearly disclose that on environmental and social grounds they see no reason why freeways in inner city areas should be proceeded with. This applies particularly in Sydney and Melbourne. I might say that 1 wish  Sir Charles  would review his attitude to a dogma that was pronounced some 25 years ago. The plans that were made for the freeway systems in New South Wales, particularly in Sydney, were set something like a quarter of a century ago. The New South Wales Opposition, when it was then the Government, subscribed to that dogma, but has since changed its view. I hope that the New South Wales Government will change its view, because we believe that the money being spent on freeways in inner city areas is a misallocation of resources and we hope that the New South Wales Government will not continue to pour money into building huge freeways which will solve no problems but will create greater social and environmental problems in the future. 
 I ask the House to reject this motion. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has been making some personal accusations against the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply  (Mr Enderby)  who was formerly the Minister for the Northern Territory. Let me say that the submission to Cabinet was a joint submission by the present Minister for Secondary Industry, who at that time was the Minister for the Northern Territory, and myself as Minister for Urban and Regional Development, and it had the full support of the Federal Cabinet. 
There are sound reasons why we made the decision to acquire this land. The real purpose of the acquisition of this 32 square miles of land in the Darwin area is to provide for the future development of the city of Darwin. There are at least 4 reasons why we should acquire this land now. Firstly, on present projections the available urban land for Darwin will run out by 1977. Since 1966 the average annual rate of growth of the population in Darwin has been about 11 per cent. In order to cater for the expected future growth of Darwin in an orderly way, we must acquire land for comprehensive development now. Secondly, present land development in Darwin is becoming haphazard and extremely untidy. It is an uneconomic urban sprawl with no real amenities. 
I am criticising the present position in Darwin which has been brought about over the past 23 years by the actions of the Government the honourable member supported. If the honourable member does not. know what the position is in Darwin he should visit the area, where he will see that the conditions under which the people live are appalling. There is no reason why this Government should not change those living conditions. 
The third reason why we should acquire the land now is that land costs are spiralling as attractive land becomes relatively scarce and young people are finding it impossible to acquire land which they can afford. Fourthly, regardless of any possible decision to develop separate towns in other areas, there will be an increasing urban sprawl in the Darwin area. By providing for the orderly development of the growth of Darwin the Government is doing only what any responsible government would be expected to do in the interests of the people. It is a matter of extreme negligence that inefficiency and inequitable planning and development of Darwin have been allowed when at the same time a federal government has been able to create Canberra. One must ask why a government for 23 years was able to expend enormous amounts of money on the national capital of Canberra but was not able to develop Darwin? I might say that even before we became the Government we gave praise to the then Government for the action it was taking with respect to the development of Canberra. But why, when it had the constitutional powers and the financial resources available to it, did it allow this squalor to occur in the planning of Darwin? We have argued consistently that what has been done in Canberra should be done, in other areas of Australia, and particularly in Darwin. We say that it should be done particularly in Darwin and also in Alice springs because they come under the constitutional control of the Australian Government. There is no excuse at all for action not being taken by the previous Government to develop Darwin in the same way as Canberra was developed. 
We need this land so that we can create a city of beauty - a city in which people can draw on the best amenities available in the planning of cities. It was for this reason that the former Government at last was forced to act. I challenge the former Minister for the Interior, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who is seeking to interject, to speak on this matter. The Government of which he was a member was forced to act. I point out to the House that the Minister for the Interior in the previous Government sought the responsibility for this matter. It was a little late in the day, but he was forced to take action. Consultants were commissioned to report on the future growth of Darwin and they reported at the end of 1971. The report of the consultants to the previous Government recommended that the 32 square miles of land be acquired by the Commonwealth. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  knows that the then Minister for the Interior recommended to Cabinet that the 32 square miles of land proposed to be acquired by the present Government be acquired by the previous Government. 
Following the consultants' recommendations the Minister for the Interior in the previous Government made a Cabinet submission recommending the acquisition of 32 square miles of land. That is to say, a member of the Country Party, a Country Party Minister under the previous Government, recommended to the Government exactly the same proposal as has been adopted by this Government. The previous Government took no decision on the matter because it was swayed at that time by the objections from the then Office of the Environment that certain studies should be carried out before the previous Government acquired it. This Government has taken full account of the views of the Department of the Environment and Conservation, and agreement has been reached at the interdepartmental level that the Government acquire the land but that the overall urban development for the plan of the area be subject to later consideration. This consideration will be based upon reports and studies, at least one of which meets the points raised by the Department of the Environment and Conservation. 
The Cities Commission, which is under my Ministry, has commissioned a regional study by consultants on the long term future structure of urban development in the Darwin area. The Commission is also conducting an environmental impact study. The National Capital Development Commission is undertaking a de tailed study of the new development area. When these studies are completed and considered the Government will be in the best position to determine the best pattern of future growth for the Darwin area. So might I say that the principle we have adopted, to which the honourable member for the Northern Territory is objecting, is the same principle as a colleague of his in the same Party recommended to the previous Government. Might I also say that the principle of acquiring the total site and then developing it in a comprehensive way is the same principle as one State Liberal Party Government and one State Liberal-Country Party Government - namely, the Victorian and New South Wales governments^ - have adopted for the development of Albury-Wodonga. It is the same principle involved. The only way in which to acquire land orderly is under this proposal. The action taken by the Minister for the Northern Territory was the correct action. This principle ensures that urban development can be carried out in the most efficient and equitable way. 
I ask the House to reject the motion put forward by the honourable member for the Northern Territory and to support the Government's action in acquiring the 32 square miles so that we can get some orderly development, so that we can start to get some rational living in Darwin and not allow urban sprawl to occur. The procedure that is being followed in Darwin will be followed in other capital cities, country towns and provincial towns of Australia. The honourable member for New England knows that the only way to solve the problem of the urban land sprawl and spiralling land prices in this country is to take the action which this Government has taken. 
Therefore I ask the honourable members opposite at least to stop the spiralling land prices. It was their Government that was responsible for the spiralling land prices in Canberra when it changed the Canberra land tenure system. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party has been continually interjecting throughout this debate. I think that in view of his position he should try to set an example to the House. He is not setting it. I call upon him to stop interjecting. 
Unfortunately the honourable member for New England was a Minister in an incompetent government that never got on with the job and never made the final decisions. That is why Darwin, of all places, which a Country Party colleague of his represents, is a squalor. It is a badly planned city. It has an enormous number of urban problems that have to be rectified. Only this Government will take positive action towards town planning. In place of the urban sprawl that is going on in Darwin we will provide more amenities and better conditions to make Darwin a decent place for young people to be brought up in. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957-1960, I present the sixteenth annual report of the National Capital Development Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 711 may be found at page 1502 of Hansard of 25 September 1973. 
For the past 9 months officers of my Department have been negotiating with the States in regard to the Prime Minister's promise to set up land commissions. The land commissions will vary from State to State. It has been agreed now by the respective State Ministers that land commissions or their equivalent will be set up in each State. We hope that the matter will be finalised and legislation introduced before the end of this session. We hope that we will then be able to get under way with .the spending of some of the $30m that has been made available in this year's Budget. The States will be able to enter into contracts for up to $60m this year. 
There has been good understanding between the States and the Australian Government on this matter. At first there was a lot of confusion over the level at which we should stabilise land prices. The problem is - whether in respect to the land commissions or our new city development proposals - that once the Australian or State governments notify their intention to nominate an area for study land speculators are able to capitalise on this knowledge. All the State governments have now agreed that there will be a form of land price stabilisation. That does not mean price control. What it means, in the case of AlburyWodonga, is that we will stabilise land prices as agreed between the Australian Government and the 2 State governments as at 3 October 1972. The price increase that would otherwise follow from the announcements by those governments of their intention to enter into these growth areas will not foe taken into consideration. The Victorian Government has already introduced legislation into the Victorian Parliament. The New South Wales Government has notified its intention to do so in the cases of Albury, Bathurst-Orange, the Campbelltown corridor and Wyong-Gosford. There has even been good understanding between the Australian Government and the Queensland Government. Might I say that there has been a remarkable achievement by the Australian and State governments in respect to urban affairs. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report prepared for the Australian Government Cities Commission by John Paterson Urban Systems Pty Ltd, Melbourne, entitled 'A National Urban Framework'. As only a few copies of the report are available, I am arranging for a copy to be placed in the Library for use by honourable members. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
For the information of honourable members I present a suggested delimitation of regions for the purposes of section 17 of the Grants Commission Act 1973. It is proposed that the suggested regions be considered by local government authorities and State governments and that any comments be made to the Minister through the appropriate Minister in each State nominated in accordance with section 4 of the Act. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1973-74 In Committee 
Consideration resumed (vide page 2730). 
Cabinet has made a decision. The Government will enter into negotiations for the acquisition of the lands known as the Church Lands Act Glebe. There are 47 acres in all and 700 dwellings are involved. The suggestion to purchase the land arose out of Archbishop Loane appearing before the inquiry into poverty which was set up by the Minister for Social Services in the previous Government. At that inquiry Archbishop Loane said that the church would be prepared to enter into negotiations for the sale of the 47 acres with either the Australian Government or the New South Wales Government. Arising from this statement the Prime Minister approached me, and we asked a body of consultants to make an inquiry into the matter. An in depth inquiry was made. As a result, a joint submission by the Minister for Housing and myself was made to Cabinet which has approved the negotiations to commence with the Church of England. The pensioners who are already living in the area will be protected. 
Important principles are involved. We are trying to keep a mixed group of people living in Glebe. It is a unique area. The townscape should be retained. It is 100 years old. It could be destroyed if developers got into that area. Therefore a policy of rehabilitation of this area will be adopted by the Australian Government. We want to try to keep the general mix of population in the area and to retain the townscape. By doing this we can prevent a change of living pattern as occurred in Paddington. The people of lower incomes who once lived in Paddington have been moved out because of the rising cost of housing in that area. Terrace houses are bringing anything from $40,000 to $60,000 in Paddington. That is driving the lower income people out to the outer suburban areas and is creating great social problems. Therefore, I think that the negotiations by the Australian Government to acquire -is a progressive step. I am pleased that the church authorities are co-operating with the Australian Government in the negotiations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of the initial studies conducted by the Cities Commission are contained in its Report to the Australian Government which I tabled in Parliament on 27 September 1973. 
These studies of regional and metropolitan centres throughout Australia form part of the continuing programme of investigation by the Australian Government. 
The purpose of the studies is to obtain a wide range of data not previously available and to investigate deficiencies in urban infrastructure, as well as to identify potential growth centres. 
The inclusion of a regional centre in the study programme does not necessarily mean that it will be developed as a growth centre nor should it be assumed that exclusion of centres from the programme means that they will not be considered in the future. 
The regional centres, as distinct from the metropolitan growth centres, examined in the initial series of studies are shown below, together with the population statistics as at the 1971 Census. 
The calculation of projected population maxima for centres after accelerated development cannot be undertaken until further detailed studies have been carried out. Furthermore, the growth of population depends on the extent to which both private and public resources are committed to any centre. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
At this stage I do not intend to carry out a survey on urban renewal projects including the nature of capital funding on projects being undertaken by (a) State Governments, (b) local governments, (c) private enterprises and (d) any of the foregoing in conjoint cooperation but I may in the future as the need arises and in line with the Government's economic priorities. 
Australian Resource Projects: Japanese Equity Capital  (Question No. 1023)  Mr Lynch  asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: &lt;1) Has his attention been drawn to statements by the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for 
Secondary Industry, reported in The Austraiian on 19 September 1973, that the Government welcomes Japanese equity capital for Australian resource projects. 
If so, has the Minister made an offer to Japan, on behalf of the Government, to relocate its pollutionprone industries in Australia in exchange for increased purchase by Japan of Australian manufactured goods. 
Has he had consultations with the Minister on this matter; if so, when. 
As the honourable member would know, 4 studies have been carried out in Western Australia by the Cities Commission. Studies have been made of Salvado, north of Perth, and studies have also been made of 3 regional areas - Geraldton, Bunbury and Albany. The study is a continuing one and until such time as it is completed no decision will be made by the Government. Foreign investment in real estate in Australia is the joint responsibility of the Treasurer and myself and each case will be judged on its merits. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the submission of the Department of Urban and Regional Development to the Task Force on the National Estate. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
For the information of honourable members, I present 'Procedures for Australian Government Grants to Local Government', a joint paper presented by the Special Minister of State,  Senator Willesee,  and myself. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was replying to the pompous rhetoric and meaningless cliches of the Leader of the Opposition about centralism. When we talk about centralism we ought to be quite clear that it is the States themselves who are the great centralists in our nation. Does anyone doubt that the cities of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane completely dominate the economic and cultural life of their States? State governments have continued to build up the resources of their centres. They have centralised power in their capitals. Let us not be fooled by the charge of centralism. It is a worn out cliche, just as the cliche about communism which the former Government employed for 20-odd years has now become worn out because  President  Nixon has gone to China and the Soviet Union. We have now found a new cliche that seems to be a dirty expression - 'centralism'. If there is any real centralism, it is in the States, particularly Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, which centralise their power in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne. They are the centralists. Let us face the issue. Let us not be fooled by the charge of centralism. Not only did the Liberal and Country parties seek to hide their lack of policy behind such charges but they also want to hide the fact that they themselves are centralists. 
In our new Grants Commission Act we have proposed that grants be allocated to approved regional groupings. I would have thought that it should be perfectly clear that regionalism is not centralism. We propose to carry out regionalism in full co-operation with the State governments and local government authorities. Regionalism is the very opposite to centralism. It is not good enough to claim that every reform proposed by the Australian Labor Government is centralisation. The reforms we propose for local government bodies will enable them better to carry out their responsibilities. Some State governments appear to want local government bodies to stay exactly as they are now, 'but this Government does not believe that local government bodies are as conservative as the States which apparently believe that  a  federal system means a 2-tier system of government and an afterthought. This Government believes that federalism means 3 equal tiers of government. I stress that. If we are to have real progress in co-operative federalism we have to have equal power for the Australian Government, the State governments and local government authorities. 
The fear and jealousy which the State governments are exhibiting towards our policies for giving local government bodies some muscle only demonstrate the narrowness and backwardness of their approach to federalism. As far as these States and representatives of the Opposition parties are concerned, cooperative federalism is all right as long as only the State and national governments are involved. That is not a genuine partnership. The new regional groupings of local government authorities backed up by financial assistance from the Australian Government will be a means of allowing local government organisations to assume their proper role in the federal system. Can anyone doubt the strength of their case for more financial assistance? 
Some of the figures which are available on the financial situation of these bodies are quite disturbing. For example, as at June 1971 $77 1.4m in debts was outstanding to local government authorities in New South Wales alone. In Australia as a whole $ 1,730m in debts is outstanding to local government authorities. When you examine the percentage change in the public debt in Australia since 1949, the position is just as disturbing. Between 1949 and 1970 the public debt of the Commonwealth increased by 5.4 per cent, that of the States by 323 per cent, but that of local government authorities by 845 per cent. The interest liability of the Commonwealth increased by 54 per cent, that of the States by 571 per cent, but that of local government authorities by 1,931 per cent. These figures are for a period of time when Liberal-Country Party governments, which administered this country for 23 years, were in office. That is the record of the enormous debt burden that they placed on local government authorities. I repeat that during those years the interest liability of the Commonwealth increased by a little over 50 per cent but that of local government authorities by 1,931 per cent. That is why members of the Opposition do not want any change. They want to retain the old, worn out, hackneyed approach of 'business as usual'. 
Under the new Grants Commission legislation which this Government brought in last 
May some relief is in sight for local government authorities, but the Grants Commission operation will not be enough. We have never stressed that the Grants Commission is the solution of the problem of these authorities, financial or otherwise; it is only one step in their progress, but it is an important step. We need to provide the third tier of government in this country with the ability to borrow money from the Commonwealth and with the opportunity to receive direct financial assistance from the national government. I ask those in Opposition whether they deny that local government authorities need more money. If they do need more money, why did the former Government, which was in office for so long, not give it to them? After all the years of neglect, do honourable members opposite still believe that the States will provide this money? Will the States provide the solution to the problems of local government? That is the question we have to ask. 
Honourable members opposite are not being honest with themseilves if they claim that after years of a worsening financial position the States will suddenly change their colour and grant local government bodies the money they need. Why do those opposite not ask local government bodies themselves whether they want access to Federal finance? They are not game to ask because they know that on only Tuesday of this week the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, many of whose members are not members of the Labor Party but members who would normally support those of the Opposition ranks, unanimously said: 'We must support the present Australian Government in its claim to give local government a say at the Loan Council'. Honourable members opposite do not ask local government authorities because they already know the answer. The third tier of government in this country has waged a long and effective campaign to gain recognition at the national level and to gain access to national finance. The Liberal and Country parties continue to deny them that access. 
In all matters of urban and regional development there is a great need to cooperate with the State governments. I have stressed before and I stress over and over again that if we really want to make progress we must ensure that there is a genuine partnership of all 3 levels of government - the Aus- tralian Government, the State governments and local government - and they must have an equal say. My actions this year bear out that recognition. On 22 October I had a meeting with the Ministers from all States to discuss, amongst other things, land commissions. Let me quote from the communique we released after that meeting to demonstrate the collaborative approach between the Australian and State governments in urban and regional development. The communique stated: 
The State Ministers accepted- 
I stress that for the benefit of the mournful looking Leader of the Australian Country Party and add that two of them were members of the Australian Country Party - that there will be Australian Government co-operation in urban planning and research and there was agreement that continuing consultation between the Australian Government and the States, particularly at officer level, would be most welcome, would contribute to a sharing, exchange and understanding of views and problems and would be of long term mutual benefit. 
It suits Liberal and Country Party members to make public attacks on the Australian Labor Government, although in private they agree that the Government is doing the right thing. But when it comes to toeing the Party line, the old cliches, old worn out dogmas and the old negative attitudes are rolled out again. It suits honourable members opposite because they have no policies and no constructive alternatives to the Government's policies. I ask the Leader of the Opposition: What are his policies for reforming local government? I ask the leader of the Country Party, who is to follow me in this debate; what are his policies? Let us hear from the Leader of the Country Party what his policies are for local government. He was the Leader of the Country Party for a number of years and was a member of the Cabinet of the Liberal-Country Party Government. What did he do for local government? That is what we want to know. What are their policies? It is all very well for the Liberal Party to mouth pious statements about their concern, but where are the concrete policies? In its short period of office this Government has demonstrated its commitment to making local government an equal partner in our federal system. We believe that this is what local government wants. We believe that this is what the people whom local government serves also want. We are determined to meet our commitments to local government. We will be asking the people of this nation to carry this referendum so that local government can better carry out its responsibilities and be more responsive to the people it seeks to serve. Therefore, I ask that, when this referendum is presented, authority be given to the Australian Government to make direct financial arrangements with local government and to give direct representation to local government on the Australian Loan Council. The Government asks the people of Australia to give it that support so that the Government can give direct financial support to local government. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill represents an important step in the implementation of the Government's urban and regional development policy. Soon I expect to introduce three other Bills which together represent major initiatives in the Government's policy. This Government is committed to a direct and continuing involvement in cities, old and new. In the existing Australian cities, programs have been devised and expenditures set aside to overcome the sewerage backlog, purchase land for urban development, improve urban public transport, conduct area improvement programs and preserve and enhance the national estate. These initiatives are all designed to improve the life of ordinary Australians within our existing cities. 
Another major component of the Government's urban and regional policy is the new cities program. This program supplements and supports our policies in the existing cities. New cities are designed to reduce population pressure on existing cities and, at the same time, provide alternative living areas for future generations of Australians. There are two broad types of operation under the new cities program. The first is what we call regional growth centres. These comprise new city development at a substantial distance from existing metropolitan centres. 
Honourable members will have to be patient with me because I do not have sufficient time in which to reply to all of their comments. I have about 7 minutes in which to speak. In the next 10 days we will be debating in this House in full detail the proposed AlburyWodonga Development Corporation and the appropriation for the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. We also will be discussing a lands commission Bill and the allocation of money for the new cities or growth centres. 
The expenditure before the Committee is for the Department of Urban and Regional Development, the Cities Commission and the National Capital Development Commission. The National Capital Development Commission is a well established body. It was established by the previous Government in the late 1950s and it has done a remarkable job in the development of Canberra. It has made mistakes and it is not been without criticism. It is something which was set up as an example. In Opposition I always used to say to the then Government: 'If it can be done in Canberra why can it not be done elsewhere?' There seemed to be a refusal by the then Government to accept my proposition. The Labor Government has been the only Government to take action to try to duplicate the work that has been carried out in Canberra. 
Something happened at the last election. Frankly it is appalling to think that those who now sit on the Opposition benches are dumb during question time about the problems which confront them. Nobody opposite is asking questions without notice about those problems of urban and regional development. Eighty-five per cent of the people of Australia live in urban areas. The last election was determined in 2 cities. Something happened in them to bring about the change. One of those cities is Sydney. The outcome of the last election in Sydney was determined in the electorates of Phillip, Cook, Evans, Mitchell and Macarthur which includes the urban area of Campbelltown. In Melbourne, the decision for a change was made in the electorates of La Trobe, Diamond Valley, Casey and Holt. The change occurred in those 2 cities and yet the Opposition just sits dumb. It does not ask questions. It has no real policy as an alternative proposal on urban affairs, and that mystifies me. 
What really happened was that there was an over-centralisation of population in both Sydney and Melbourne and growth problems occurred with land, housing, sewerage, roads, urban public transport, the provision of new urban areas and, of course, the neglect of the national estate. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  spoke tonight about the national estate. For the 23 years that his party was in office, not one penny was offered to preserve the oldest building in Australia, the Elizabeth Farm cottage which was built in 1793 and which is in his electorate. Yet we this year have allocated $2. 5m for the restoration and enhancement of our national estate. We are already making an allocation of funds. The fact is that there has been over-centralisation and those people in the rural areas who talk about decentralisation now have allies in the city because the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and I are advocates against the over-centralisation of population in our major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. It is for this reason that we believe we must start to create new centres. 
This is why the Cities Commission has set up 12 new development areas throughout Australia and why in the first 10 months of office we have been able to achieve an agreement on the historic development of the Albury-Wodonga area. We believe that we must make our cities rational places in which to live and that areas like the central business districts of Melbourne and Sydney cannot go on as they are. We cannot continue with this megalomania of trying to over-centralise the cities. We must balance these metropolises. We have to make sure that the cities of Melbourne and Sydney become rational places in which to live and at the same time we believe we must establish new growth centres in other parts of the country. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $9m in 1973-74 for a growth centre at AlburyWodonga. In the Budget, the Government announced its intention to allocate $33m for the new cities program. The remaining $24m will be directed to other growth centres and related projects. 
On 23 October 1973 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria signed an Agreement on the development structure to be established for the Albury-Wodonga growth centre and the legal framework within which this will operate. This Bill is designed to provide financial assistance to these States on the basis of that Agreement. The moneys appropriated by this Bill will be applied in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill 1973 and the Albury-Wodonga Area Development Agreement which I introduced into the House yesterday. 
As the title of this Bill makes clear, its purpose is to provide financial assistance to New South Wales and Victoria in the current financial year for purposes connected with the development of Albury-Wodonga. Clause 4 of the Bill provides that when a State has incurred expenditure this financial year in accordance with an approved program, it is then entitled to financial assistance. Clause 8 of the Bill qualifies Clause 4 by providing that the States' entitlements to financial assistance is subject to conditions set out in the Bill and to such other conditions as are agreed between the 3 Governments. 
Clause 10 provides for financial assistance in respect of land for urban use by way of loans. Sub-clause (2) provides for interest to be at the long-term bond rate or at such other rate as the Treasurer, with the concurrence of the Minister, determines. This subclause therefore allows for some flexibility in financial arrangements. 
Each advance is repayable over 30 years by 60 half-yearly payments subject to sub-clause (3) of clause 10. Sub-clause (3) provides for a deferment period for the commencement of repayments of principal and payments of Interest. This deferment period is not to exceed 10 years. During this time, the interest is to compound half-yearly. When a deferment is granted, repayments will still be completed 30 years after the first advance. 
Under clause 11, financial assistance for the acquisition of land for buffer zones, conservation areas and major recreation space can be made by way of non-repayable, noninterest bearing grants. This is subject to a matching grant by the State of such proportion as the Minister, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, determines. 
Honourable members will recall that the Albury.Wodonga Development Bill, which I have already introduced into the House, has an attachment - the Albury-Wodonga Development Agreement. Part III of this Agreement sets out the basic financial arragements for the development of the growth complex. Clause 14 of this present Bill requires a copy of every future amending agreement to be tabled in the House. 
I need not delay honourable members any further with the provisions of this Bill as my second reading speech on the AlburyWodonga Development Bill yesterday fully covered the various aspects of this important growth centre project. I refer honourable members to the text of that speech and the explanatory memorandum of the Agreement which accompanied the Bill. I commend the Albury-Wodonga Development (Financial Assistance) Bill 1973 to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ian  Robinson) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate S24m in 1973-74 for the growth centres program announced in the Budget. The $24m is the balance of the appropriation for that program after subtracting the $9m approved for expenditure in Albury-Wodonga. This Bill is basically concerned with financial conditions. Funds will generally be made available to the States upon agreement to the terms of finance, and to conditions relating to development corporations, where appropriate, and the introduction of legislation permitting a system of land acquisition at fair prices. The Bill only sets out conditions relating to the terms of finance. Clause 9 (1) provides that other conditions may be agreed between the Australian and State governments. These other conditions will be set out in the financial agreementsClause 15 of the Bill requires these agreements to be tabled. 
Many of the detailed provisions in this Bill are the same as provisions for the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) Bill which is on the notice paper, and I shall speak on it later today in some detail. However, for the purposes of this Bill, I will outline some of the more important provisions. Clause 4 of the Bill provides for approved programs of urban and regional development which include land acquisition, development, other works, and studies. Sub-clause (3) requires that where land is to be acquired it should be identified as intended for urban use, or otherwise. This is because the terms of finance for these 2 categories are different. Clause 5 is the operative section. When a State has incurred expenditure this financial year in accordance with an approved program it is then entitled to financial assistance. Clause 9 qualifies clause 5 by providing that a State's entitlement to financial assistance is subject to conditions set out in the Bill and also to such other conditions as may be agreed upon between the Australian and State governments. Clause 10 provides that, in respect of land for urban use, financial assistance will be through loans. Under clause 11, financial assistance for the acquisition of land for buffer zones, conservation areas and major recreation space can be made by way of non-repayable grants. This is subject to a matching grant by the States. 

 Mr Speaker, I shall deal with the more detailed arrangements for this assistance in introducing the next Bill which is concerned with financial assistance for land commissions. In the schedule attached to this Bill is a list of the areas covered by the Bill. There are 3 areas in New South Wales: BathurstOrange, Holsworthy-Campbelltown and Gosford-Wyong. The Cities Commission has been working closely with the New South Wales authorities in their efforts in Bathurst-Orange. In Holsworthy-Campbelltown the Cities Commission has been conducting detailed investigations into the problems of unexploded munitions and now believes that these problems can be solved at reasonable cost with the aid of sophisticated techniques already in use in many European countries. Land to be publicly acquired with funds allocated for 1973-74 has already been defined. We are now considering proposals for the management of the first pilot stage of development in the Holsworthy area. In Gosford-Wyong, the Commission is conducting studies into land to be acquired in 1973-74. 
In Victoria 2 areas come into this Bill. In Geelong, we are commissioning studies for the development of a planning strategy. In Melbourne's south-east sector a task force has begun work, in co-operation with the appropriate State authorities, to define the land to be acquired with Federal finance in 1973-74. The land to be acquired in Melbourne's south-east sector is not for development, but to protect areas from development. The need for recreation land near Melbourne is particularly important. Moreover, the preservation of the Mornington Peninsula and the Dandenongs is a matter of some urgency. We are providing at least $3m in grant money this financial year for this task. We want to protect this area in co-operation with the Victorian State authorities. Together we can prevent this valuable area from being spoiled by over-development. 
Following discussions with Queensland officials, the Cities Commission has been able to draw up study programs in the Moreton, Townsville and Fitzroy regions. The South Australian Government has pushed ahead with legislation and planning for Monarto. We have reached agreement with the South Australian Government on major policy issues. Final negotiations are under way between the Australian and Western Australian governments on policies to be adopted in the Salvado growth centre. The land for which Federal assistance has been allocated has been defined. In addition, a major study of port location and water supply in the Salvado region has been prepared. 
Finally, good progress has been made in discussions between the Tasmanian authorities and the Cities Commission into future proposals for studies and land acquisition in Tasmania. We are examining particularly the Tamar region. Naturally, all these studies and negotiations on future land acquisition are being carried out in close co-operation with the appropriate State authorities. Apart from Canberra, this is the first time in the history of our nation that the Australian Government has made direct budgetary appropriations for a new city development. After studies by the Cities Commission, we have selected and are promoting a certain number of growth centres. We have committed $24m in this first year to our growth centres program. I stress again that that amount does not include our commitment to the development of Albury-Wodonga. Our growth centres program is only one part of our overall urban and regional development strategy but it is an essential part. The growth centres referred to in the Bill, and future growth centres, will help stabilise population pressure on existing cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. At the same time, growth centres will provide alternative living areas for future generations of Australians. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ian  Robinson) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $30m in 1973-74 for the Land Commissions program as allocated in the Budget. The rapidly rising price of land in our capital cities is something which disturbs this Government and distresses the young people saving for a home. Our policies on land form part of our urban policies. No-one can deny the need to change the haphazard system of urban development which has been carried out over the past 23 years. Urban development needs to be planned so that it does not take place simply as the consequence of .pressure by major landholders for rezoning. Australia's cities have grown tremendously in the past 20 years. Escalating land prices, inadequate urban services and transport facilities, poor urban design and under-privileged communities have all been the products of urban development of the post-war years. The Australian people face major expenditures to overcome the backlog in urban services in our major cities. In short, too often the product is poor, the price is too high and the bills have not been met. 
Let me give some figures with regard to Sydney in the period September 1970 to March 1973. The increase of the consumer price index in all groups was 18.2 per cent. Average weekly earnings rose 29.5 per cent. The wholesale price of building materials for houses rose 21.4 per cent. However, the minimum price for home sites in urban fringe areas in Sydney rose an astounding 157 per cent. What is happening in Sydney today and what will happen there in the remainder of this year is what will happen next year in Melbourne and in other capital cities. It is occurring already in the south eastern corridor of Melbourne. This is a national disgrace. It points to the need for action by the State governments as well as by the Australian Government. Might I add that the State governments have had the power in the past to carry out this action, if financial arrangements had been made. The first requirement was for the States to have the will to do this. The second need was for them to enter into financial arrangements wim the Federal Government. The State governments in the past did not act- in this direction; nor did the Federal Government. That is why we face this crisis situation now. 
Yet, throughout the whole development process of the last 2 decades, a number of individuals have amassed large fortunes from increases in the value of land. The investment of public funds in services and facilities such as highways, sewers, schools and hospitals increases the value of land, but the people as a whole recover little or none of the increases. Rezoning can, overnight, cause large increases in the value of land owned by those whose property lies within the path of urban development. Sometimes individual owners and, of course, speculators who are sitting on large tracts of land, withhold their land from the market in the hope of further land price increases. The result is many families today are unable to afford a house on their own block of land. 
One of the chief characteristics of the growth of our cities is that often the sequence of development is private initiative for profit followed by a harried and strained public investment in basic infrastructure. So, there is a great need for governments to be able to co-ordinate the provision of services to developing areas. In order to get an efficient co-ordination and provision of services, governments ought to be able to identify specific areas for development. These areas must then be acquired at prices which have not been forced up by the announcement of intended urban development. The present planning system is a blueprint for speculators. This is one major reason why we must change the rules of the game. Public acquisition defeats speculators who withhold large parcels of land from the market. Land Commissions and the legislation to enable acquisition at fair prices which we are encouraging the States to implement are essential if better co-ordination and better planning are to be achieved. Ultimately, they are the means by which we will enable young people to enter the land market at a cheaper price. Let there be no mistake about this: The present Australian Government believes that excessive profits have been made in land speculation and this should not continue. We need the co-operation of the States to stop this. If there is co-operation between the Australian Government and the State governments, this state of affairs can be stopped. Honourable members should have no doubt about that. 
There are three major objectives underlying the operations of the Land Commission structures. Firstly, we want to allow areas to be comprehensively planned and developed; secondly, we want to make land available at fair prices; thirdly, we want to retain, for the benefit of the whole community, some of the increase in value which results from the process of urban development. This Government believes that a great majority of Australians accept and welcome these objectives. Therefore, the Australian Government has encouraged the States to set up Land Commissions or to reorganise their existing structures so that these objectives can be achieved. 
The financial assistance offered to the States is subject to two main types of condition. The first type deals with the usual range of conditions on terms of finance. I will deal with these more fully in a moment when I am considering specific parts of the Bill. The second main type might broadly be called performance conditions. 
There are two major performance conditions: Firstly, each State should carry out its land acquisition programme through an organisation structure agreeable to the Australian Government; and secondly, the State should implement legislation to acquire the land at prices unaffected by announcements of intended urban development. 
Honourable members should know that the aim is not to freeze land prices. I hope that that really sinks into the minds of honourable members opposite. I repeat for their benefit those words: Honourable members should know that the aim is not to freeze land prices. Nor is the aim to reduce the capital value of the asset. Rather, the aim is to ensure that any inflation caused by the announcement of any government is not borne by the purchasers. I hope that this is perfectly clear to honourable members. There has been too much hysteria on the question of the stabilisation of land prices. We are not freezing land. We are trying to stabilise the price of land. There have also been some misunderstandings in regard to the question of land tenure. Let me make clear the process of urban development as we envisage it. Firstly, there is a decision by governments that a city will expand in a certain area. Secondly, and as soon as possible, there is an announcement that the price paid for land acquired in the general will set aside increases deriving solely from the Government decision. Thirdly, after studies have been carried out with full public knowledge and involvement, a decision is made on the exact area to be zoned urban. Fourthly, the land commission authority acquires that part of the new urban area where it is to supervise development. Fifthly, the area is physically developed. This operation would usually be undertaken by developers in accordance with reasonable conditions agreed upon with the Government. Sixthly, the land is disposed of to individuals, groups, companies and government authorities - for houses, flats, factories, shops, offices, schools, parks, roads and all the things which go to make up an attractive and complete community. I think we can draw on the experience of the development of new suburbs in Canberra. 
This is the end of the first phase of urban development. The question then to be answered is what form of tenure should be adopted for this disposal. There have been discussions with the States on this question and the Government is awaiting the report of the royal commission inquiry into land tenures. The Government is not dogmatic on this question of residential land tenure. I stress that I believe that all State governments understand this and that detailed questions of land tenure are not a barrier to commencing the process of land acquisition and development I have just described. 
I turn now to the detailed provisions of this Bill. The Bill provides in clause 4 for the Minister to approve programs of land acquisition and, in consultation with the Treasurer, to agree upon the amount and terms of financial assistance to be provided to carry out the program of land acquisition. In each case, negotiations will be with the appropriate Minister of the State defined in clause 3. This is a general Bill which allows for flexibility in the determination of programs of land acquisition and setting the terms of finance. Clause 15 of the Bill provides for the financial agreements to be tabled. Dealing first with the programs of land acquisition, clause 4 provides that the programs are for purposes connected with urban expansion. Clause 3 defines urban expansion to include redevelopment, and setting aside land in or near urban areas for public recreation purposes or for conservation. Subclause (1) of clause 4 requires that the programs be carried out by an approved authority. Clause 3 defines an approved authority as either the land commission of a particular State or an authority of that State approved by the Minister with the concurrence of the Treasurer. Under sub-clause (2) of clause 4, the land to be acquired will be specified as intended either for urban use or alternatively, for public recreation space, for buffer zones or for conservation areas. 
These latter areas of land will be large tracts returning relatively little income. 
Clause 11 provides that in these cases Australian Government assistance will be nonrepayable grants subject to a matching grant provision. Where land is intended for urban use, and this includes not only land for houses, offices and factories, but also land for schools, community facilities, transportation routes and urban parks, Australian Goverment assistance will be in the form of interest bearing loans. Clause 10 provides for these loans to be repayable over 30 years. Interest is to be payable half-yearly on the outstanding balance. The interest rate is to be the long-term bond rate or such lower rate as the 
Treasurer with my concurrence determines. I will return to the question of interest rates in a moment. Sub-clause (3) of clause 10 provides for a period of deferment of up to 10 years. This will be agreed with the State before payments in respect of a particular program commence. The deferment period is a period during which there are no repayments of principal or payments of interest. The outstanding principal will compound on half-yearly rests during the deferment period. After the deferment period, the principal and accrued interest are treated as a principal sum which is then repaid with interest over the balance of 30 years. The deferment period is offered so that States accepting financial assistance can ensure that the process of development of the land generates funds to service loan requirements. 
There will be a period after acquisition when the land is not returning any income to the approved authority which carried out the acquisition. The deferment period will allow the States to plan the cash flow for each project so that funds are available to service borrowings as required. The Australian Government has also decided that there will be a review of interest rates. I will propose to the States that the review should be carried out within 5 years and, in any event, before the end of the deferment period. The review will take into account the cash flows for each project or group of projects so that they can be self-financing as far as possible. The flexibility in the terms of finance allowed by the Bill will permit the Australian Government to tailor a program of urban development to suit conditions in each State and region. 
In describing the type of land involved in this program, I have referred to some of the terms and conditions under which financial assistance will be provided. As I said earlier, there are two types of conditions involved. There are the performance conditions relating to the operation of land commission structures and land price stabilisation legislation. There are also the conditions as to interest, terms and repayments and so forth which are set out in the Bill. The Bill contains other machinery conditions. There are provisions in clauses 6, 8 and 13 requiring the supply of information and in clause 14 there is a provision that the Australian Government's consent is to be given to any major change of land use. The clause in the Bill which connects the two types of conditions is clause 9. That clause provides that advances are to be subject to conditions set out in the Bill and to such other conditions as the Treasurer and I determine. Through that clause, the conditions relating to land commission structures and land price stabilisation legislation will be made effective. 
This Bill provides for $30m to be spent this financial year under our land commissions program. It is a first step in a continuing involvement by the Australian Government in order to provide more attractive and better planned communities. Land commissions are one part of an interconnected package of programs in urban and regional development. This Government recognises that the various investments which the Australian Government has made in the past coupled with the initiatives we are now taking are all inter-connected. These investments range over the whole field - land, housing, roads, sewerage, transport. These investments must increasingly be seen as an inter-connected parcel of policies, not as isolated programs. The Australian Government seeks the co-operation of the States to work as a partnership in this venture. Already the South Australian Government has established a Land Commission. Western Australia has introduced a Bill to establish a Land Commission. I have 'been engaged in detailed discussions with the Victorian Minister for Local Government for some months. Discussions are continuing with Ministers and officials in other States, particularly Queensland. We seek the co-operation of the States. 
Together the Australian and State governments can achieve a more efficient allocation of resources. Together the Australian and State governments can achieve a more equitable form of urban development. Together the Australian and State governments can achieve what all Australians would want them to achieve - to give Australian families access to land and housing at fair prices. There are no immediate solutions to our urban problems. There are no 'instant coffee' solutions to the land crisis. But the .Land Commissions are a beginning. They are an alternative. They provide an alternative method which will enable Australians to receive the benefits of more efficient and more equitable urban development. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
ENGINEERING SERVICES, MALAK AND KARAMA NEIGHBOURHOODS, darwin 
Approval of Work - Public Works Committee Act 
This matter has been brought to my attention first by the Treasurer, in whose electorate this area is located, and also by the honourable member for Melbourne and the South Melbourne Council which has made representations to my Department. An examination of this area has been made by officers of my Department and also by the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate. The Treasurer and I have conferred on financial arrangements with a view to supporting the South Melbourne Council's attempt to acquire this site for the public sector. It is a townscape which the national Government seeks to retain as such. I agree with the honourable member for Melbourne that as the townscape of Glebe in Sydney should be retained so should Emerald Hill. If the Victorian Government will co-operate, we will then co-operate with the State Government and the Council in order to acquire this unique townscape for the public sector. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the first annual report of the Department of Urban and Regional Development for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
I knew John Dedman for the past 15 years. He was a gentle and sincere man with an enlightened and progressive approach to politics. I had not realised the depth of his progressive thinking until I became Opposition spokesman for urban affairs and regional development some 4 years ago. It was then that I began examining some of the proposals John Dedman made when he was Minister for Post-war Reconstruction in 1948. Since being appointed to my portfolio I have delved further into the work which John Dedman initiated, and I have found that some of the principles which he espoused are valid today. As Minister for Post-war Reconstruction, soon after the war he said: 
Now that nearly all the factories built in war-time are in some way disposed of, the decentralisation movement must not stop. If we are to develop to the full a country the size of Australia, there should be the greatest possible balance in the distribution of population. 
Unfortunately for Australia, that did not occur. There was a change of government after the 1949 election. Following the great immigration intake, the great bulk of those immigrants went to the over-centralised cities of Sydney and Melbourne. We are now putting into effect some of the regional development policies of which John Dedman could rightly claim to be a pioneer. The present Government has taken some initiatives on regions. Apart from the report of my Department which was released recently, the only significant investigation on regions by a national government was the one undertaken by John Dedman's Department of Post-war Reconstruction. He was a pioneer in the development policies which are now being implemented. 
John Dedman has a place in our hearts and in Australian history because of his role in wartime and post-war Australian governments. He has a special place in the history which is now being written in the policies of the present Government concerning regions and growth centres. I wanted to place that on record on behalf of John Dedman. I express my sympathy to John Dedman's widow and family. 
The placement of migrants in this country is "within the role of the Minister for Immigration. I think it is generally accepted within the Government that we should be seeking to guide people away from the major cities such as Sydney and Melbourne. There has been over-centralisation in Sydney and Melbourne during the last 23 years and the area which the honourable member represents is suffering a great deal from this problem. Consequently this Government is trying to rectify that problem. 
There was a discussion with the relevant 6 State Ministers in Canberra last week. Several of the Ministers were unhappy with the conditions of this year's agreement with the Australian Government in regard to their sewerage programs. The terms of the agreement were that $30m was to be made available to all the States, repayable over 30 years at the long term Commonwealth bond interest rate. The best terms that were available under the previous Government to local government and sewerage authorities was the local government interest rate which is one-half per cent higher than the long term Commonwealth bond interest rate and normally the repayment of the loan was over the much shorter period, generally about 20 years. We examined the requests of the respective States and we have accepted the proposal of the Victorian Government that there be a foncier proposal in regard to the repayments. This of course would lower the repayments in the early years. The Australian Government has also acceded to the request of the States that the repayment of the loan be extended to a period of 40 years instead of 30 years. This proposal now is acceptable to the Victorian Government and other State governments have intimated that they wish to accept it. 
I stress that the sewerage program agreement is only for the term of this year. The problem has been that we have inherited one of the most serious social and environ mental problems in our urban affairs - the sewerage problem. We find that at least SO per cent of the people in Perth live in homes which are unsewered and that in Sydney and Melbourne approximately one out of every 6 families live in unsewered homes. When we examined the situation this year, we found that if we were to meet the backlog of sewerage requirements this year we would have had to make available something like $89m to the States. Cabinet examined the situation of the shortage of resources, both manpower and materials, and we thought that the most realistic figure to be provided in view of the inflationary pressures existing should be $30m. But I have stressed to the States that these proposals will apply only for this year's agreement, that it will relate only to the backlog. In future years there will be a long term sewerage program entered into with the States which will deal not only with loan moneys but also with interest-free grants. In future years, instead of dealing only with the questions of the sewerage backlog, we will also be opening up new areas, to try to reduce the cost of land, to provide sewerage and to improve the treatment of sewage under these programs. As is known in New South Wales the sewage discharged off Sydney beaches in many cases is untreated and, in fact, is creating grave environmental problems. The Australian Government will work with the State governments to try to overcome the sewerage works backlog in a new program as promised by the Prime Minister in his policy statement. 
In the earlier session of this Parliament we introduced an amending Bill relating to the Grants Commission. It was to bring about the equalisation of regions, as is the case with the Grants Commission dealing with the claimant States. There are some 900 local government authorities in Australia. One of the reasons for drawing them together into some 68 regions for the purpose of making applications for assistance was the enormous work force that would otherwise be created. As honourable members know, the debt of local government authorities created by the previous Government is enormous. The servicing debt of the previous Australian Government increased by about only 50 per cent during its 23 years in office, but during that time local government debt increased by something like 2,000 per cent and the debt of semi-government authorities by 2,800 per cent. So that local government authorities might get assistance we are asking them to come together as regional groups, to make applications to the Australian Government so that there can be a topping up process and an equalisation of regions within Australia. 

 Sir Charles Court has made some comments about the centralism of the Australian Government. I stress that the policy of the Australian Government is to build up and strengthen local government bodies. It is not seeking centralised power. Regionalisation is not centralisation. Our policy is unlike that of  Sir Charles  Court when he was  Deputy  Premier in Western Australia and that of some of the other States. Can anybody deny that in fact 70 per cent of the population of Western Australia lives in Perth and that centralisation has been created in that State or that centralisation has occurred in Melbourne, Sydney or Brisbane? Could we have any more centralisation than has occurred under State governments in Western Australia, Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland? We seek to strengthen the base of local government, and ons of the steps we are taking to strengthen local government is to allow local government authorities to make application to the Australian Government for aid through the Grants Commission. 
 My attention was drawn to the statement of  Mr Campbell,  the Chief General Manager of L. J. Hooker Ltd, that the price of land on the fringes of capital cities is levelling out and that this is due to the Government's economic policy. The Treasurer, the Minister for Housing and I have made early examinations of what is occurring to land holdings on the fringes of our cities. We are concerned that in Sydney during the period September 1970 to March 1973 though the consumer price index rose by 18 per cent, the wholesale price of building materials for housing rose by 21 per cent and the average weekly earnings rose by 29 per cent, the price of land located on the fringes of that city rose by 157 per cent. The Government is examining events particularly as they relate to the fringe banking institutions and land speculators who hold large tracts of land on the fringes of our capital cities and we are aware that they are now feeling the squeeze of the Government's economic policy. This is one action we are taking to lower the cost of land but the Government believes that the real solution to the present housing and land situation is for the establishment of land commissions or their equivalent to work in co-operation with State governments so that when land is rezoned from rural to urban it is acquired by a public authority and subsequently developed both by private enterprise and public authorities. 
 I have several amendments to move to clause 10 which in part reads as follows: 
the State shall repay to Australia each payment or advance (not being an advance repaid under section 6) by 60 equal payments, the first payment in each case to be made on15 June or15 December next occurring after the expiration of 12 months after the date on which the payment or advance was made to the State, and the subsequent payments to be made at half-yearly intervals thereafter. (3) Commencement of repayments of principal, and payments of interest, by a State in respect of payments and advances made to the State in relation to an approved program may be deferred for such period, not exceeding 10 years (in this section referred to as "the period of deferment"), as is agreed between Australia and the State before the first payment or advance to the State is made in relation to that program and, in that event, subsection (2) does not apply, but the loan is subject to the following conditions: - 
interest shall accrue in respect of each payment or advance, calculated from the date on which the payment or advance was made, on so much of the payment or advance as for the time being has not been repaid by the State; 
the amount of interest that has accrued under paragraph (a), together with interest that has accrued under paragraph (c), shall be calculated as at15 June and 15 December in each year; 
each amount calculated under paragraph (b) as at a date before the expiration of the period of deferment shall be payable by the State to Australia in accordance with paragraph (f) as if that amount had been a payment made to the State under section 4 on the date as at which it was calculated', and interest shall accrue in respect of that amount, calculated from that date, on so much of that amount as for the time being has not been paid by the State; 
the State shall repay to Australia each payment or advance (not being an advance repaid under section (6) by equal consecutive halfyearly payments, the first payment in each case to be made on15 June or15 December next occurring after the expiration of the period of deferment and the last payment in each case to be made on15 June or15 December next occurring after the expiration of 30 years after the date on which the first payment or advance was made to the State in relation to that program. 
I move: 
Omit paragraph (d) of sub-clause (2), substitute the following paragraph: - " (d) the State shall repay to Australia each payment or advance (not being an advance repaid under section 6) by instalments in such manner, and within such period, not exceeding 30 years, after the date on which the payment or advance is made to the State, as is agreed between Australia and the State, the first instalment in each case to be paid on15 June or 15 December next occurring after the expiration of 12 months after that date.". In sub-clause (3) omit " in relation to an approved program ". 
I have several amendments to move in respect of clause 10, which reads, in part: 
**** 
Subject to sub-section (3), the loan is subject to the following conditions: - 
interest shall accrue in respect of each payment or advance, calculated from the date on which the payment or advance was made, on so much of the payment or advance as for the time being repaid by the State; 
the rate at which interest shall accrue under paragraph (a) shall be the long-term bond rate or such lower rate as the Treasurer, with the concurrence of the Minister, determines; 
interest so accrued shall be paid by the State to Australia on15 June and15 December in each year; 
the State shall repay to Australia each payment or advance (not being an advance repaid under section 7) by 60 equal payments, the first payment in each case to be made on15 June or15 December next occurring after the expiration of 12 months after the date on which the payment or advance was made to the State, and the subsequent payments to be made at halfyearly intervals thereafter. 
Commencement of repayments of principal, and payments of interest, by a State in respect of payments and advances made to the States in relation to an approved program may be deferred for such period, not exceeding 10 years (in this section referred to as " the period of deferment "), as is agreed between Australia and the State before the first payment or advance to the State is made in relation to that program and, in that event, sub-section (2) does not apply, but the loan is subject to the following conditions: - «* o o o o o 
the State shall repay to Australia each payment or advance (not being an advance repaid under section 7) by equal consecutive half-yearly payments, the first payment in each case to be made on15 June or 15 December next occurring after the expiration of the period of deferment and the last payment in each case to be made on15 June or15 December next occurring after the expiration of 30 years after the date on which the first payment or advance was made to the State in relation to that program. 
* * 
I move: 
Omit paragraph (d) of sub-clause (2), substitute the following paragraph: - "(d) the State shall repay to Australia each payment or advance (not being an advance repaid under section 7) by instalments in such manner, and within such period, not exceeding 30 years, after the date on which the payment or advance is made to the State, as is agreed between Australia and the State, the first instalment in each case to be paid on15 June or15 December next occurring after the expiration of 12 months after that date.". 
In sub-clause (3), omit "before the first payment or advance to the State is made in relation to that program". 
In sub-clause (3), paragraph (c), omit "as at which it was calculated, and interest shall accrue in respect of that amount, calculated from that date,', substitute "on which the payment or advance was made, and interest shall accrue in respect of that amount, calculated from the date as at which that amount was calculated,". 
Omit paragraph (f) of sub-clause (3), substitute the following paragraph: -  "(0  the State shall repay to Australia each pay ment or advance (not being an advance repaid under section 7) by instalments in such manner, and within such period, not exceeding 30 years. after the date on which the payment or advance is made to the State, as is agreed between Australia and the State.". 
After sub-clause (3), insert the following subclause: - "(3a) An agreement fixing a period in accordance with this section may include provision for the variation of that period before the expiration of that period and for the consequential variation of other matters.". 
The aim of the amendments is to provide for flexibility in the term of each loan. The Bill as originally introduced provides for all loans to have a term of 30 years. The amendments allow the repayment term to be any period up to 30 years. Also the amendments correct some minor drafting errors. In respect of amendment No. 1, the original paragraph (d) required repayments by way of 60 equal halfyearly payments. The amendment provides for flexibility in the method of repayment subject to the proviso that the repayments must be completed within 30 years. 
Amendment No. 2 is necessary to ensure that the period of deferment can be reviewed in about 5 years time. Amendment No. 3 is a drafting amendment to ensure that the capitalised interest is repaid in the same way as the original advance. Amendment No. 4 is similar to amendment No. 1 and applies where there is a deferment period for the commencement of payments of interest and repayments of principle. Amendment No. 5 allows a review to cover incidental matters. 
I do not want to delay the Committee, but I want to reply to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  to put the record straight on this important and historic Bill. Firstly, the Australian Government has taken every precaution to safeguard the environmental standards of all growth centres. In passing, it is true that one of the comments on the water catchment area applies to Albury-Wodonga, which is not being discussed in the debate on this Bill. However, on the same water catchment as that which is being discussed, which would affect the South Australian border, is the BathurstOrange area. What has to be realised - and I hope that honourable members opposite really understand this - is that because AlburyWodonga is on the Murray River, it does not mean that that is the only centre that would affect the quality of water in South Australia. There is an interconnected relationship. All the water systems - whether it be the Murray River, Darling River, Mumimbidgee River or Lachlan River - are interconnected, and they will all affect the quality of water in South Australia. 
It so happens that in this debate we are discussing the allocation of $24m, and part of this amount will be allotted to the New South Wales growth area of Bathurst-Orange, which is also on the same catchment area as Albury-Wodonga. So we are being very careful, and we are concerned. Might I say again that it is not the experience of our Government that we are going to use. The Government of which the honourable member for Angas was a supporter had experience of the water quality of the Murrumbidgee River to which the Canberra water supply is linked. It is also in the catchment area that affects the quality of water in South Australia. We are continuing - and in fairness to honourable members opposite, the previous Government actually made the decision to improve the water quality of the lower Molonglo River - the plan to set up a water treatment works on the lower Molonglo River to treat the water for Canberra which comes from the Molonglo and Murrumbidgee Rivers. These works will treat the water to such an extent that they will take even the nutrients out of it, and the water will be pure to drink as it comes out of the water quality works. We intend to apply to Albury-Wodonga and BathurstOrange, and to any other growth centres in inland cities, the type of experience which we have applied in Canberra. I give that assurance to all honourable members opposite. It is collective experience gained from what the National Capital Development Commission did under the previous Government. We are going to draw on that experience when planning for the development of any cities near rivers in the future. 
I have several amendments to move to clause 10, which reads in part: 
Subject to sub-section (3), the loan is subject to the following conditions: - 
interest shall accrue in respect of each payment or advance, calculated from the date on which the payment or advance was made, on so much of the payment or advance as for the time being has not been repaid by the State; 
the rate at which interest shall accrue under paragraph (a) shall be a long-term bond rate or such lower rate as the Treasurer, with the concurrence of the Minister, determines; 
an amount calculated under paragraph (b) as at a date after the expiration of the period of deferment shall be paid by the State to Australia upon that date; 
Commencement of repayments of principal, and payments of interest, by a State in respect of payments and advances made to the State in relation to an approved program may be deferred for such period, not exceeding 10 years (in this section referred to as "the period of deferment"), as is agreed between Australia and the State before the first payment or advance to the State is made in relation to that program and, in that event, sub-section (2) does not apply, but the loan is subject to the following conditions: - 
interest shall accrue in respect of each payment or advance, calculated from the date on which the payment or advance was made, on so much of the payment or advance as for the time being has not been repaid by the State; 
the amount of interest that has accrued under paragraph (a), together with interest that has accrued under paragraph (c), shall be calculated as at 15 June and 15 December in each year; 
each amount calculated under paragraph (b) as at a date before the expiration of the period of deferment shall be payable by the State to Australia in accordance with paragraph (f) as if that amount had been a payment made to the State under section 5 on the date as at which it was calculated, and interest shall accrue in respect of that amount, calculated from that date, on so much of that amount as for the time being has not been paid by the State; 
I seek leave of the Committee to move the amendments together. 
by leave - Honourable members will recall the setting up of the Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenures earlier this year at the instigation of my colleague the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  and myself. The Commission, under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Else Mitchell, and comprising in addition Professor Russell Mathews and  Mr G.  J. Dusseldorp, has done a magnificent job in producing this its first report within the 6-month period asked by the Australian Government. I regard the report as an historic document. The report patently demonstrates the failure of all governments, Federal, State and local, over recent years to deal effectively with the problems arising out of Australia's existing systems of land tenure. It presents an unarguable case for a uniform system of land management and control. 
Whether the objectives as suggested by the Commission are to be achieved by implementing the Commission's recommendations or by other means, is ultimately not important. What is important,  Mr Speaker,  is that the objectives are achieved. The Commission reiterates what many of us have been saying for so long; that is, that most of the problems of our urban and rural environment are brought about by the inadequacies of our present systems of land control and land management. We should all recognise that. The Else-Mitchell report provides a formula for all governments to follow in overcoming the problems facing Australia today in rising land prices, inadequate supplies of land, destruction of our national estate, inequitable and inefficient distribution and management of land, and the enrichment of the few at the expense of the community. 
The Australian Government has not yet had the opportunity to consider the recommendations of the Commission in detail. However, the Government believed it was important that the report be made public as soon as possible. The solutions proposed by the Commission affect all Australians. All Australians should therefore be aware of the recommendations proposed by the Commission and be given the opportunity to consider their effect not only upon themselves but upon the country as a whole. I hope that not only individuals and organisations with a vested interest will comment on the report, but also a broad section of the Australian community, particularly the young. 
It is important to note that the Commission's report recommends that future development rights should from a base date be reserved to the Crown; that is, to the public. It is obvious that if the Government accepts this recommendation the determination of the -base date is crucial. For instance, if the base date was set at a future date it would be possible for landholders on the periphery of urban areas artificially to set the market value of their land at an unrealistically high level. This would most certainly be contrary to the community's interest, lt would be against fairer prices for urban land. If the Australian Government accepts the recommendation of the Commission that future development rights be reserved to the public, I propose to recommend to Cabinet that the base date be the date of presentation of this report to the Parliament, that is, 4 December 1973, or at the very least that the relevant legislation provide for transactions to be investigated back to that date to prevent any artificial inflation of prices. 
In this way, we can maintain the Commission's belief that the system of land tenure and control must be equitable in all respects. I urge that all State governments study the report closely. Except in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, the Australian community can reap the enormous benefits that will flow to them only upon the achievement of the objectives outlined by the 
Commission through separate action by each individual State Government. 
The attitude taken by each State Government towards the Commission's report will demonstrate just how responsible that State Government is. The Commission's report has implications that cover the whole of urban development. For instance, will the price of residential land be allowed to continue to rise, or will it be stabilised as the Commission recommends? Will a few speculators be allowed to continue to reap huge profits at the expense of many, particularly the young, or will the people be protected as the Commission's report recommends? That is the question that the Opposition has to answer because for too long it has permitted this to run havoc. Will development and redevelopment take place in a haphazard and inefficient way as presently occurs or will it take place when and where it is required at a price the individual can afford? 
The Australian Government has previously stated its commitment to the achievement of these objectives. For the sake of the Australian people, I sincerely hope that the State governments reach the same commitment. I commend the Else-Mitchell report to all honourable members. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 The matter of public importance proposed for discussion by the Opposition is as negative as the forces that sit behind the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The proposal is negative because of the 23 inactive years in which the Opposition parties ruled as the Government. Frankly, all honourable members opposite want to say to any proposal is no. They have no positive proposals of their own. They have not been prepared to put any positive proposals forward. The Government is seeking an alteration to the Constitution for this Parliament to be given authority over prices and incomes. 
In the short time available to me I wish to deal with prices and specifically with the price of land. Look at the historical situation of the price of land in the years in which the Opposition parties governed, particularly the years between 1950 and 1970. Although statistics were hard to obtain, I have been able to compile figures from the records of the War Service Homes Division. Let us take an index of 100 for both the price of land and average weekly earnings in that period. In New South Wales, in that period, the price of land rose from an index of 100 to an index of 1,209. Average weekly earnings in the same period rose from an index of 100 to an index of 369. The price of land actually rose 3.25 times faster than average weekly earnings in that period. 
I wish now to examine the figures for New South Wales for the period June 1970 to January 1973. I take as an example the price of land in the area of Sydney which is in the most advanced stage of land speculation. An examination of areas of land from inner Sydney to 5 miles from inner Sydney shows that in June 1970 prices for that land ranged between $20,000 a block and $35,000 a block. In January 1973 prices for land in that area ranged between $25,000 a block and $45,000 a block. In June 1970 land in an area 5 miles to 10 miles from the heart of Sydney ranged in cost from $7,000 a block to $20,000 a block. In January 1973 the price per block had risen to between $15,000 and $35,000. In the area from 10 miles to 15 miles from the centre of the city of Sydney the price of a block of land in June 1970 was between $6,000 and $15,000. In January 1973 the price of a block of land in that area ranged between $12,000 and $30,000. What happened in the areas on the outskirts of the cities - areas such as that represented by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)?  In June 1970 the price of land 15 miles and beyond ranged from $3,500 to $7,000 a block. In January 1973 the price had risen and ranged from $9,000 to $15,000 a block. 
Between September 1970 and January 1973 the price of land within 5 miles of the centre of Sydney had risen by 25 per cent; between 5 and 10 miles by 114 per cent, between 10 and 15 miles by 100 per cent and for land on the fringes of the city it had increased by 157 per cent. This is the spiralling cost of land. During the period from September 1970 to March 1973 the consumer price index rose by only 18 per cent, the wholesale price of building materials rose by 21 per cent and the average weekly earnings by 29 per cent. But land on the fringes of Sydney increased by 157 per cent. What we are asking the people to do is to vote Yes next Saturday. What would it mean if they did? It would mean that this Parliament would have the authority to pass legislation that would empower me as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, in consultation with the State Ministers to determine an area of future growth and development and to stabilise land prices in those areas. This would not be new. I instance the situation at AlburyWodonga, where an agreement was made that when the Government made an investment in the area it would stabilise land prices as at 3 October 1972. There has been a formula to cover any further increase, but only a normal rational increase, not a 157 per cent increase within a couple of years. Wherever growth occurs, land speculators move in. What we are seeking to do is to have the authority to stabilise land prices. 
When some of the progressive State Ministers with whom we may enter into agreements go back to their State Cabinets to get the authority to stabilise land prices, the conservative elements refuse to grant such an authority covering a given area. -Albury and Wodonga have had land prices stabilised. This has been done in agreement with Victoria and New South Wales. Apart from that area it has not been done. We seek to stabilise land prices. Stabilising land prices is not freezing land prices. All it means is that we will stabilise the price at a given time, after which there will be normal increases in price. The formula has already been worked out by the Victorian and New South Wales governments, but they did not go beyond the limited areas of Albury and Wodonga. 
When we develop land in the fringe areas, why should the greedy land speculators whom the Opposition members represent be allowed to make fortunes out of land. The land tenure report tabled today was compiled by a Supreme Court Judge from New South Wales, a private developer of some standing,  Mr Dusseldorf,  of Lend Lease Corporation Ltd, and Professor Russell Mathews, of the Australian National University. These gentlemen exposed the land exploitation of a few people against many, and I cannot understand a young person like the honourable member for Parramatta, who should have the interests of young people at heart, condoning the actions of the conservative forces he supports. What did the New South Wales Government do? It auctioned 26 blocks of land for $lm. What was the reserve price of one of the blocks of land? It was $34,000, and it sold for $50,000. How many young people could afford to pay such a price? 
The Government has a positive proposal. We have 2 ways of dealing with the problem. Firstly, there is the question of growth centres, of which we have already nominated AlburyWodonga. We have proposed other areas such as Bathurst-Orange, Wyong-Gosford and, of course, the Campbelltown corridor and Geelong in Victoria. What we are seeking to do is to stabilise land prices in those areas, to acquire the land, and to develop it under a public authority. The land will be developed on the basis set out in the principles of the Land Tenure Act. Regarding residential land, we will consider the recommendation of the Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenures. These recommendations would allow residential land to be held on freehold basis, except that the Government would retain the development rights. Commercial and industrial land would remain leasehold. 
These are the powers we are asking the people to give us. If they vote Yes on Saturday, we may be able to bring some rational development to our country and be able to make land available at a reasonable price to young people in the future. At present the cost of buying land and building a home is almost out of the reach of most people, particularly on the western fringes of the city. Young people are paying $12,000 for land 25 miles west of Sydney. This must stop. We cannot afford to allow land to rise 3i times faster than the average weekly earnings have risen. We must stabilise land prices. We ;an do that if the people vote Yes and give this Parliament the authority to control land prices. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for an agreement between the Australian Government and the States for a program to eliminate the backlog of sewerage. The Bill will appropriate funds for loans to the States for carrying out this program during 1973-74. The details of the program are set out in the agreement which is contained in the Schedule attached to this Bill. On 16 December last year, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to each Premier seeking information from each State sewerage authority. 
Replies from the States showed that 17 per cent or one in six of the population of Australia's major cities are without adequate sewerage services. In addition, every city has deficiencies in sewerage treatment facilities. As honourable members would realise, the number of people without adequate services and the standard of treatment varies considerably from region to region. Different starting times for sewerage construction, different rates of growth, different priorities within State programs and different geological conditions - all these complex factors need to be taken into account in formulating an agreement. Following these replies, officers of my Department held discussions with State authorities. The various State submissions, together with these discussions, clearly indicated that the formulation of a long-term agreement was not possible in the time officers had available to them. So the agreement which is attached to this Bill provides for the year 1973-74 only. 
In the recent Budget, the Government allocated $30m for a beginning to the sewerage backlog program. I would like to stress that this allocation is only the first step in our program to overcome the sewerage backlog in our major cities. In setting the level of assistance, the Government was fully aware of the pressures on resources, both men and materials, this year. There are 10 cities which will receive moneys this year under the program. They are: Sydney, Wollongong, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, the Gold Coast, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart and Launceston. The amount of financial assistance for each State is as follows: 
Moneys will be made available  by way of  repayable loans for a period up to 40 years. The rate of interest to be charged is the longterm bond rate at the time payments and advances are made. Under the agreement, a State can repay equal 6-monthly repayments of capital together with interest on the reducing balance. Alternatively, the State can elect to pay under credit foncier terms which provide for equal 6-monthly instalments. Under this alternative, payments would be lower in earlier years. Part III of the agreement details the conditions of financial assistance. Honourable members will be aware that in the past sewerage authorities have normally paid the local government interest rates which are generally one half per cent higher than the long-term bond rate, Also, the repayment period has normally been much shorter than 40 years. For example, in New South Wales the authority there has borrowed at one half per cent above the long-term Commonwealth bond rate and repaid normally over 20 years. I have been aware of the criticism from some quarters concerning the Government's decision to make this year's allocation on an interest bearing loan basis. Sewerage authorities are considered as business undertakings which should generally rely on loan funds. However, no one is more aware than I of the difficult position many sewerage authorities find themselves in today. Sydney, Newcastle and Perth are generally paying 50c in every dollar to service their debts. The Melbourne Board of Works is paying 58c in every dollar. I would point out that this situation was not created by the present Australian Government. It was created in the main by the previous Australian Government and conservative State governments. It would be irresponsible of this Government to start giving away money this year without full awareness of the complex matters I have already mentioned. The present Australian Government does not intend to bail out these authorities without conducting a proper analysis of their indebtedness and future programs and the way these programs relate to each other. 
The Department of Urban and Regional Development is ultimately responsible for formulating the national sewerage program. It has enlisted the assistance of the Cities Commission. In addition, a steering committee has been established to help formulate the program. This committee consists of experts from the Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board, the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, the Australian Department of Housing and Construction and the Cities Commission. Members of this committee sit on it because of their expertise and not because of their various State origins. A long-term program will be worked out in close co-operation with the States. No one should underestimate the magnitude of the task that the various officers face in formulating this long-term program. In the first instance, there is the question of the inter-connected nature of this Government's policies in urban and regional development. 
Provision of funds for sewerage works is only one part of the Government's overall program for improvement of the environment and living conditions in cities throughout Australia. The sewerage program must be integrated with Australian Government policies and programs in land commissions, housing, urban public transport, area improvement programs and growth centres - both regional centres and system cities. I predict that it will be increasingly recognised that one of the great strengths of this Government's policies for the cities is its willingness and ability to see the various investments which the Australian Government has made in the past coupled with the initiatives we are now taking, as being interconnected. These investments must increasingly be seen as an interconnected parcel of policies, not as isolated programs. Secondly, neither the Australian Government nor the various State governments will be able to fulfil their duties to relate these investments unless we are served with better data or better information than has been given in the past. The paucity of data' is a major problem. It is through co-operation in this sewerage program that more data can be made available to all governments about the basic conditions underlying this problem. 
This initial allocation represents the historic step in the continuing involvement by the national Government in one of the major problems of our cities. It was the present Prime Minister who had to endure the misplaced mockery and disregard of honourable members opposite and the disdain of some editorial writers when he sought to involve the previous Government in assisting the States to overcome this problem in our major cities. This present Bill is a tribute to his persistence. 
With the co-operation and assistance of the States, I am confident that we can now formulate a long-term agreement. Such an agreement will both overcome the backlog in sewerage services and provide improved treatment facilities at modern environmental standards. Together with allied programs for other urban services, this Government will overcome the results of 23 years of under-investment in our cities which has produced so many inefficiencies and inequalities. I commend this Bill to the House. 
No. The usual practice is to adjourn the debate. 
The normal procedure is to move the adjournment of the debate. 
-I have read the report. If a Yes vote is recorded at the referendum on Saturday and control over prices is given to this Parliament, it will mean that after legislation has been passed there will be authority to nominate any area with a view to stabilising land prices. There has been a precedent already. The Prime Minister met with the Premiers of Victoria and New South Wales. They were able to reach an agreement to stabilise land prices in an agreed area in Albury-Wodonga as at 3 October 1972. A formula has been worked out to take account of the increase in the price of land after the stabilisation date has been announced. The Managing Director of Parkes Development Pty Ltd talked about a future black market. Important matters have been brought before this Parliament during the last week. The first was the tabling of the report on the Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenures. One of the recommendations in that report was that when land is rezoned from rural to urban any capital gain that may be made should accrue to the Crown or to the community but not the person, the land speculator or the land developer who has the land. Secondly, legislation was passed by this House for the setting up of land commissions and new growth centres. 
This year the Australian Government has made available almost $10Om for the purpose of improving the supply of serviced land, which is an important element in the price of land. We have made available $33m to create new growth centres, $30m for land commissions and $30m to overcome sewerage backlogs. It is my responsibility to nominate growth areas. If the people vote Yes on Saturday, I believe that it will be a great step forward in stabilising land prices. I stress the word 'stabilising'. It will not mean a freezing of land prices. I assure honourable members that I believe that the report presented by those 3 prominent men -  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell of the New South Wales Supreme Court, Professor Russell Mathews of the Australian National University and that progressive and enlightened developer  Mr Dusseldorp  - is a social landmark in this country. As the Minister responsible, I will be proposing to Cabinet that it give support to their proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Lighting in the car parks located in two areas on the northern side of Queen Victoria Terrace is provided by adjacent street lights. Earlier this year additional lighting was provided in the car park adjacent to West Block. 
There is also an undeveloped area on Camp Hill where people at Parliament House park. It is not proposed to turn this area into a car park and there are no plans to provide lighting there. 
and (3) For some time there has been concern for the safety of persons, particularly womenfolk, walking to their cars in the late hours of the night. However, I believe that, to the extent adequate lighting can secure their safety, all that can reasonably be done in this regard has been done. It is suggested that the other arrangements for staff safety you raised should be taken up with the Presiding Officers of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The concern expressed by Local Government Authorities about the proposed Perth North West Corridor, named 'Salvado' by the W.A. Government, is premature and unfounded. 
Development proposals for 'Salvado' are linked with the prospect of a deep water port being constructed in the Northern end of the corridor and several other crucial questions still are waiting investigation. Feasibility studies for this port and other aspects of the proposal are now being prepared. 
At any rate the Shire of Wanneroo, one of the Shires to be affected by eventual development in this corridor has expressed basic agreement with the objectives of development in the area. Its concern is about the establishment of a Land Commission and presumably a Development Corporation if the Australian Government and the Government of Western Australia reach agreement on the 'Salvado' development. 
Land Commissions and Development Corporations form an integral part of this Government's urban development policies, aimed at eliminating land speculation and achieving orderly and efficient growth in centres outside the metropolitan areas. 
Development Corporations have to be seen in the context of the Australian Government's overall decentralisation policy which is based on concentrating new urban development in a restricted number of growth centres. 
The long list of failures in attempting to establish individual manufacturing establishments in widely scattered rural areas shows that successful decentralisation must be based on a policy of selected growth centres. 
 The planning, construction and development of a modern city requires a comprehensive planning and development authority. Such corporations have been a fundamental feature of the British new town program. 
There are several established Australian parallels to the proposed development corporations, e.g., the National Capital Development Commission, the Sydney Cove Redevelopment Authority, the South Australian Housing Trust. 
I have also invited representatives of Local Government Authorities in the region affected by the Salvado' proposal  to  meet with me and  to  discuss likely problem areas. 
See part (2) above. 
See part (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is no specific, formal study, but as part of normal planning, the NCDC is continuing its assessment of parking space requirements in Canberra to cope with future needs including the requirements of the next two years in the Civic area. 
Changes in the control of existing parking space have been publicised widely as part of the introduction of pay parking by the Minister for the Capital Territory, The joint policy of the Commission and the Department is to ensure adequate short-stay parking is available to maintain the vitality and convenience of the shopping and professional segments of the city. 
This means that an increasing proportion of the existing parking space will be allocated for short-stay purposes rather than for use by commuters. As further development of the city takes place on the existing temporary parking areas, the provision of parking structures for shoppers and visitors will be considered. However, it should not be expected that the full demand for commuter parking can be met. 
Statements are being prepared on transport and parking policy with special reference to the City Centre and will be made public as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The average daily traffic volume on this part of Canberra Avenue for the years 1967 to 1973 is set out below. No figures are available for 1965 and 1966. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Set out in the table hereunder are particulars of staff appointed to the Department and to my personal staff who are in receipt of salaries in excess of $10,000 per annum. 
In circumstances where such, staff were officers of the Public Service prior to their appointments their previous designation and classification is also shown. 
Where the appointee was not a member of the Public Service prior to appointment, details of remuneration are not furnished because such information is personal and confidential to the individual. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Development plans in respect of the land referred to by the honourable member are under consideration by the Australian Government Departments concerned. 
A statement will be issued as soon as that consideration has been completed and any necessary discussions with State and local government have been held. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Interdepartmental Committees (Question No. 1081) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 

The Committee comprised representatives of the Departments of: Urban and Regional Development; Treasury; Services and Property; Works; Prime Minister and Cabinet; Transport; Environment and Conservation; and of the Public Service Board and the Cities Commission. 
Thee Committee was established by a Cabinet Decision of 16 January 1973. It presented its report to Cabinet on 28 November 1973. 
The Committee's terms of reference were: to bring up to date the report of the interdepartmental committee established in 1968 to investigate the problems associated with the provision of office space for Commonwealth purposes; and to consider the implications for the office construction program of the attitude adopted by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works towards the proposal for development of the Sydney Street, Melbourne, project beyond the first phase. 
The  answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government established a task force to enquire into the National Estate on 16 April 1973. Its report is awaited. 
My Department has made submissions to the enquiry and in thecourse of preparing its submissions has drawn advice from a number of areas. No formal committee was, however, established. 
The  answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
See (1) above. 
See (1) above. 
The answer to the right honourable minister's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am unaware of the number of such groups and do not have a complete list of their names. 
The Information Service of the Department of Urban and Regional Development is in the process of compiling lists of many different types of groups interested in urban and regional development, including resident action groups and progress associations together with, for example, local government associations, academics and developers. 
No. 
Department of Urban and Regional Development and Department of Transport: Intel-departmental Committees (Question  No.  1556) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Three inter-departmental Committees established since 2 December 1972 are concerned with matters of interest to the Departments of Urban and Regional Development and Transport. 
The purposes of these committees are: 
to initiate joint studies into urban, inter-urban and regional passenger and freight movements; 
to ensure consultation on urban public transport assistance; and 
to consider urban and regional development issues including transport questions. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
By Cabinet Decision an inter-departmental Committee on Australian Capital Territory Housing Policy was established in July 1973. The Committee comprises officers from the Departments of the Capital Territory (chair), Urban and Regional Development, Housing and The Treasury, as well as occasional attendance from the Public Service Board. 
The Committee considered the Australian Capital Territory housing loan scheme and other Government housing policy matters, such as eligibility for Government housing, level of rentals on Government houses, revision of the rental rebate scheme foi needy tenants and the effects on the Canberra housing market of housing subsidies to transferred public servants. 
 Mr Speaker,  I suppose that one could describe the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  more aptly as  Mr Negative'.  He has been negative because he wants no change in the Constitution. Everybody in this Parliament knows that the Constitution which was created in 1901 needs alteration. Every Government that has governed this country and every parliamentarian that has sat in this place knows that the Constitution as it was drafted in 1901 is not suitable for the needs of government and the people in this country today. It needs alteration. That is why before the House today there are 5 Bills seeking to alter the Constitution. 
The first of the 4 Bills being debated cognately is the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974 (No. 2). Does anybody deny that we should change the procedure by which a Senate election is held one year, 18 months later an election for the House of Representatives is held and some 18 months thereafter a further election for the Senate is held? Of course simultaneous elections need to be held so that government can be continuous. Too many elections are held in this country and therefore the Constitution should be altered to enable simultaneous elections to be held for the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with that alteration. 
Let us consider next the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill 1974 (No. 2). I ask honourable members on the opposite side who sit behind the Leader of the Opposition to examine the figures for Queensland to see whether there are not gerrymanders and whether there is no necessity for democratic elections. A government led by the Country Party in Queensland governs with approximately 19 per cent of the vote, yet the Liberal Party which in fact received a greater percentage of the votes but fewer seats cannot govern the State because of the gerrymander. Normally, simple arithmetic shows that the procedure is that a government needs at least 51 per cent of the votes. But we find that a government in Queensland led by the Country Party governs with 19 per cent. Other parties make up the remainder of the votes but have not got the majority of seats. The Liberal Party of Queensland with approximately 30 per cent of the votes has fewer seats than the Country Party. So do not let us talk about democratic elections. For a time a Liberal Party government governed in South Australia with 32 per cent of the votes because of a gerrymander. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
He should know. He has been warned before. This is after the dinner adjournment. 
 Mr Speaker,  did you hear what the honourable member said? 
I am glad the House has come to order because it is about time it did so. I was talking about this so-called democratic structure. I gave 2 instances of 'Lower Houses in this country which have governed for many years by gerrmanders. I think the time is overdue that the people of Australia should see all houses of parliament elected in a democratic way. 
This cognate debate covers the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill, the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill, the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill and the Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill. Tonight I want to deal specifically with the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill. There can be no doubt that at the last election this Government received a mandate to carry out, to formulate and to implement policies for our cities both old and new. Equally, there can be no doubt that the Government received a mandate to implement certain policies for local government. The Australian Labor Party's policy stated its determination to make local government a genuine partner in the federal system. At last year's Constitution Convention the national Government proposed to bring local government representatives onto the Loan Council. This proposal was blocked by certain States. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  then determined that the national Government would still try to involve local government as an equal partner in the federal system by proposing this alteration to the Constitution. We have pledged ourselves to this reform and we are seeking to make this reform in our democratic way. We have a mandate from the people to carry it out. 
This Bill dealing with local government bodies will enable the Government to fulfil its responsibility. The way in which the Opposition parties carry on demonstrates clearly that they are interested only in cliches and worn out dogma. They are interested only in 'busi ness as usual'. The Leader of the Opposition said: 'Just business as usual. Let us not make any alterations at all'. Could one be any more negative? The Opposition did not offer anything to local government. For 23 years honourable members opposite allowed the position of local government in this country to deteriorate. They condoned the States' action in negating local government. Local government is a creature of the States. We all recognise that. The States have repeatedly downgraded the position of local government. They have done it in 2 ways. On the one hand they have passed increasing responsibility to local government, such as for child care centres, assistance for aged persons and environmental protection. On the other hand they have failed to match this increase in responsibility with an increase in financial assistance to local government. Local governments are so poor that in many cases they cannot even afford to police their litter laws let alone to expand and police the environmental laws to -protect the environment which becomes a more important responsibility of local government each day. Whenever the 'Labor Party proposed to do something about this position the same State governments could only cry 'centralism'. 
Members of the Liberal and Country Parties in the national Parliament share responsibility with the States for downgrading the position of local government. Not only did they condone the States' actions but they also condoned the States' cliches. They, too, rely on cliches to hide their lack of positive policies. When we talk about centralism we ought to be quite clear about it. What greater centralism is there than the centralism of Brisbane over the whole State of Queensland, of Sydney over the State of New South Wales and of Melbourne over the State of Victoria? What greater concentration of power and what greater centralisation could there be in those 3 cities? Yet the States are talking about centralism. Let us stop talking this rubbish about centralism. In fact the Whitlam Government has been the most decentralising government in the history of this nation. It wants to create responsibilities within regions and to give power back to the people, where it should lie. The reforms we are proposing for local government will enable it better to carry out its responsibilities. 
Some State governments appear to want local government to stay exactly as it is now. But this Government does not believe that local government bodies are as conservative as those States. 
Whatever the Liberal and Country Parties may say, I am confident that local government itself supports our proposal to alter the Constitution. I could quote ample evidence for the support which is gathering for the proposal to enable local government to receive direct financial assistance from the national Government. Let me confine myself to an instance which occurred in Hobart in November of last year. At a meeting of the Australian Council of Local Government Organisations it was decided to unite in a public campaign in support for local government representation on the Australian Loan Council. The delegate from New South Wales, the Honourable Harold Coates, M.L.A. - every honourable member opposite knows that he is an independent member who has supported the Libera] Party in New South Wales in 95 per cent of its actions - said: 
Local government has 'been battling for a long time for assistance, and for the first time the Commonwealth had come to the party. 
He was talking about the Whitlam Labor Government which had come to the party with financial support for local government, which had been struggling for so long. I emphasise the words: 'For the first time, the Commonwealth had come to the party.' He went on to say: 
It should be a backward step if local government did not show support for the Commonwealth in what it was trying to do. 
That is the voice of the Australian Council of Local Government Organisations which met in Hobart last November. This body is the elected leadership of the local government authorities throughout Australia. This body said that it wants to support the Australian Labor Government even though many members of the local governments involved are normally not Labor Party supporters. They may be normally non-Labor supporters. But they know that the new Whitlam Labor Government will give a new deal to local government. The Council clearly expressed support for the Australian Government's initiative. 
This Government believes that federalism means 3 equal tiers of government. The fear and jealousy which some State governments and the Federal Opposition parties are exhibiting towards our policies for giving local government some muscle only demonstrates the narrowness and backwardness of their approach to federalism. As far as these States and representatives of the Opposition parties are concerned, co-operative federalism is all right as long as only the States and the national government are involved. But that is not a genuine partnership. Can anyone doubt the strength of local government's case for more financial assistance? Some of the figures which are available on the financial situation of local government are quite disturbing. I might say that it is fitting that a former Federal Treasurer, now the Leader of the Opposition who followed disastrous financial policies in the field of local government, should be here to listen to some of the figures. For example, in January 1971 local government authorities in New South Wales alone were $77 lm in debt. In Australia as a whole local government authorities had $l,730m outstanding in debt. When we examine the percentage change in the public debt position in Australia since 1949 we find that the position is just as disturbing. Between 1949 and 1970 the public debt of the Commonwealth increased by 5.4 per cent, the States by 323 per cent but that of local government by 845 per cent. 
The figures relating to the interest liability during that period of time also are interesting. The Commonwealth's debt increased each year by 54 per cent, the States by 571 per cent but that of local government by 1,931 per cent. 
So one can see why local government wants to support the Labor Party. Even though the debt of the Commonwealth has remained at a static level and the debts of the States have increased greatly the debts of local government have increased astronomically. Do members of the Opposition deny that local government needs more money? Do those opposite still believe after all these years of neglect that the States will provide this money? They are not being honest with themselves if they claim after years of a worsening financial position that the States will suddenly change their colour and grant local government the money which it needs. When he was the Prime Minister of this country a few years ago, John Gorton tried to assist the States which had incurred certain financial debt. But at no time did the States pass on some of that assistance, which was provided to ease their debt burden, to local government. The debt of local government has continued to spiral and no assistance has been given although more and more responsibility has been thrown onto local government. Why do not those opposite ask local government itself whether it wants access to Federal finance? They do not ask local government because they already know the answer. 
The third tier of government in this country has waged a long and effective campaign to gain recognition at the national level and to gain access to national finance. The Liberal and Country parties continue to deny them that access. Why do the Liberal and the Country parties object to equality between the 3 levels of government? It is because they want feudal kings in feudal State castles to preserve the present system of keeping local government as the poor relation in our federal system. Why are the critics of this Bill so reluctant to see local government authorities have access to national financial resources? The amendment that we propose to the Constitution will enable local government to get on with the jobs for which it is best suited. 
The referendum goes even further than merely providing money. Its real basis is the place of local government in our system. We need co-operative federalism in which there are 3 equal partners in which each have the right of a say and the right of a vote. But unless it is equal partnership we will not be able to solve our problems. Honourable members opposite cannot say that they want a strong and vigorous local government and then vote against this Bill. This Government believes that local government wants to be an equal partner in our federal system. This Government believes that that is what the people want. This Government is determined to meet the legitimate demands of local government and it will ask the people to give it the support and power under the Constitution to do so. I ask honourable members to support this Bill. 
I am aware of the report. It was a confused report. The decision to develop the Gosford-Wyong area was taken in conformity with the broad policy of trying to develop rationally and at the same time slow the growth of both Sydney and Melbourne. As the honourable member knows, in the dying days of the previous Government a decision had to be made in relation to certain regional growth areas as well as what the former Government called sub-metropolitan centres and what we now call system cities. 
Unfortunately, as the right honourable member who is interjecting knows, the Liberal-Country Party Government was divided. On the one hand the Australian Country Party supported regional growth centres and on the other hand the Liberal Party supported the sub-metropolitan centres. As far as we are concerned as a government, we want to develop both what we call systems cities that will be rational cities built on the fringes of our major cities, and regional growth centres such as Albury-Wodonga, Geelong, BathurstOrange and other regional growth centres in other States. In relation to WyongGosford, about which the honourable member is concerned, this Government, in co-operation with the New. South Wales State Planning Authority, as it was then known - this is now under the Environmental and Planning Department - is working on 5 studies. The first study is on the future growth of Gosford up until the year 1981. The second study is to determine future transport development in that area. The third is an hydrology study to identify flood plains and the badly drained areas. The fourth study is on conservation, to try to identify certain coastal land that should be retained for that area, and to restrict development on the tops of the mountains and in rain forests. This is a very delicate area. Unfortunately, because of the previous federal Government's not supporting the New South Wales State Planning Authority, which had this same plan under way since 1968, there has been enormous land speculation in that area. The fifth study is an economic base study to determine future growth and job opportunities in those areas. Yes, we will be supporting the development of the Wyong-Gosford area. We will be developing it in a rational way jointly with the New South Wales authorities. 
I am aware of this rare species of bird. I am aware that a request has been made for 850 acres to be purchased jointly by the Victorian and Australian Governments. A letter has been forwarded by  Mr Hamer  to the Prime Minister containing this request. Prior to this, discussions had taken place between the Victorian Minister for Local Government,  Mr Alan  Hunt, and me and later between the Premier of Victoria and me on matters relating to this area. Preliminary discussions have taken place on the financing of the purchase of this area. It has been suggested that the land be acquired through the national estate funds, the suggestion being that the ratio of contribution should be $2 by the Australian Government, $1 by the Victorian Government and $1 by public subscription. This money will not come from this year's National Estate allocations. 
It must be clearly understood that the area, particularly the south-east area, surrounding Melbourne is a very delicate area environmentally. Already in this year's allocation, following a special study by the Cities Commission, a $3m interest-free non-repayable grant has been made available to the Victorian Government to acquire land in the Dandenong Ranges, 
Westernport and Mornington Peninsula areas. This area is environmentally delicate and requires action now to acquire open space. 
I am not blaming the present Victorian Government for the lack of public open space around Melbourne. However, Melbourne has very limited open space area in the form of urban and national parks, unlike Sydney which has something like 4 national parks surrounding it such as the Royal National Park, the Ku-ring-Gai Chase National Park, the Lane Cove National Park and the Blue Mountains National Park. Even in New South Wales we are working in cooperation with the New South Wales Government to acquire land under the western sector of Sydney program. We have acquired land on the escarpment of the Blue Mountains to ensure preservation of that escarpment. So, it is a part of the general overall policy of the Whitlam Labor Government to acquire open space areas surrounding our capital cities. In regard to the area in Victoria which is the habitat of this unique bird, we hope that in the. coming year the joint co-operation between the Australian Government and the Victorian State Government with probably some public subscription will result in the acquisition of this land which will cost something like $2m. 
We have received a letter from the Premier of South Australia in regard to the development of the petro-chemical complex at Redcliffs. We are examining the question of the infrastructure to ensure that an overstraining of services does not develop in that area as had developed in the Gladstone area in the mid-1960s. We can assist the South Australian Government in 2 ways in what it calls the 'iron triangle'. Firstly, the region can make an application to the Grants Commission for assistance. Secondly, we are examining the action which might be taken in what is known as an area improvement program, of a kind that this Government has initiated in respect of the western sector of Sydney and the western sector of Melbourne. After a thorough examination of the matter has been made by the officers of the Cities Commission and my Department a report will be presented to me. 
It is regrettable that a nian of such standing as  Mr Dodds  should make such a public statement. I have read the statement this morning in which he said that the Housing Commission in his State - New South Wales - is working on a very limited budget because it cannot get funds from the Federal Government. That is, of course, a completely false statement. The Australian Government has increased the allocation for housing commission funds in all States this year from $167m to $2 18m. That represents an increase of 26 per cent in one year. The amount has been increased to such an extent that I predict that the funds that have been made available by the Australian Government to the New South Wales Government for housing commission purposes will not be spent this year. 
Secondly, it is regrettable that the New South Wales Government has not taken more positive action to stabilise land prices in the Bathurst-Orange area. -When the New South Wales Government determined in October 1972 that Bathurst-Orange would be a growth centre, the Federal government of the day, particularly the Leader of the Australian Country Party, objected to and opposed the proposal. I was then the federal spokesman for the Opposition on decentralisation. I said that because Bathurst-Orange was a major transport corridor I saw no reason to oppose it. On 23 October 1973 in Albury-Wodonga the Prime Minister gave full support to the New South Wales Government's proposal to develop Bathurst-Orange as a growth centre. In the last Budget we allocated $2m for acquiring land in Bathurst-Orange but with a stipulation. I might say that since 3 October 1972 when a decision was made to stabilise land prices in Bathurst-Orange, action was long delayed by the New South Wales Government to make this a fact of life. When that action is completed by the New South Wales Government we will make $2m available in order to acquire land in that area in this financial year. 
There is one regrettable detail about growth areas. When either the Australian Government or the respective State government determines that an area will be a growth area, there is accelerated growth in the area - maybe because of private greed - and there always seems to be a housing shortage in the area in the short term. The same problem exists in Albury-Wodonga. So there are problems in the short-term. But we have made $2m available this year for Albury-Wodonga in order to try to upgrade sewerage services and to overcome the backlog in the provision of other services which occurred under the previous Federal Government. Once we get that land serviced we will be able to develop housing in AlburyWodonga. A similar pattern will be followed in Bathurst-Orange if positive action is taken by the New South Wales Government. 
I saw the statement made by the right honourable gentleman and was con cerned as to how he could curtail expenditure on the cities. 
As I was saying,  Mr Speaker,  in examining the statement by the right honourable gentleman 1 was concerned with how expenditure could be curtailed. The 2 major cities of Sydney and Melbourne are involved because of chaotic conditions that have accrued in those cities over a period of 23 years. Allocation of funds to cities is a major priority to the present Government and the amount of money allocated to my Department was one of the largest allocations to any Australian Government department. An amount equal to at least 50 per cent of the money allocated for urban projects had never been allocated before. If there is to be a cutback on government expenditure I am concerned with where that cutback should occur. If the development of Sydney and Melbourne is to be rational the growth of those cities must be slowed and co-ordinated. If there is to be a curtailment of expenditure the question is should such curtailment apply to areas like Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange or Geelong? Was there to be a curtailment of expenditure on sewerage programs? Or was there to be a curtailment of expenditure on urban public transport programs? 

 Mi UREN- At all times I have dealt with what would be the situation if our Government had to curtail expenditure. My Department has received a substantial increase in its allocation. I am trying to examine where, in fact, my Department could curtail expenditure. The Government has an enormous commitment in overcoming the service backlog in our cities. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  In making an examination of the expenditure of moneys I am trying to point out how our Government can overcome the great chaos in the cities that was caused by the previous Government's 23 years of maladministration. Should we curtail expenditure on the national estate which is designed to overcome the problems caused by the bulldozer mentality of the past which permitted historic buildings and areas of great natural beauty to be destroyed? Was I to curtail the increased expenditure? 
Or were we to curtail expenditure by the National Capital Development Commission on the development of Canberra? We know that the previous Government, under its credit restrictions between 1970 and 1972, restricted the amount of money being made available for servicing land in Canberra, which caused a spiralling of land prices in Canberra. This year our Government has made additional money available in order to overcome the backlog in the development of land in the Australian Capital Territory in order to make land available at a reasonable price. We have made extra money available in order to try to catch up with the housing backlog. We also have made extra money available through the Commonwealth Housing Agreement. We have attempted to increase expenditure in all fields of urban development. In fact, as the Prime Minister said previously, $137m was made available for urban development this year. Such an amount has never before been made available for this purpose in a Federal Budget. Do any honourable members opposite say that those allocations of money should not be made? If they do they should check with their respective State governments, because although we have already made $30m available this year in order to catch up with the sewerage backlog, the Western Australian Government has sought another $3m, the Victorian Government is seeking another $3. 9m and the Queensland Government is seeking another $2m. I say that this expression from the Opposition ranks about cutting Government expenditure is complete humbug and hypocrisy. 
Following on what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said during question time, for the information of honourable members I wish to advise that I have arranged for 2 copies of the report entitled Bunbury: Town and Regional Development Study: Review of Growth Potential' to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
In regard to the site at Parramatta proposed for an office development, the original site known as Meggitts was purchased by the Department of Services and Property some 6 months ago. There were 2 further sites to be purchased - the baby health centre and a service station which is on the corner of George Street and O'Connell Street. There have been further discussions between the Department of Services and Property and my Department as to whether further lands should be acquired. Those discussions are still going on. In fact the matter is now before Cabinet which is discussing the type of development that is to be carried out in Parramatta. When a decision is made by Cabinet on the matter the House will be informed of it. 
 The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who proposed for discussion this matter of public importance and those who support it, particularly the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who spoke previously, deserve the severest censure for the hypocrisy and their attempt to mislead the Australian people. It is those who sit on the other side of the chamber who are responsible for the present quagmire in which the building industry finds itself. Who should bear that responsibility more than the former Minister for Labour and National Service who should have been prepared to prevent the shortage of men and material in the building industry? It is those who sit opposite who cry centralism whenever the Australian Government takes an initiative in this area. It is those who sit opposite who would like the Australian people to believe that the States should have the powers but the Australian Government should have the responsibility. 
It is the philosophy of the Liberal-Country Party coalition that matters of urban development and housing are the responsibility of the States. Do members of those parties deny that? I challenge them to do so. They state this philosophy all the time. When it comes to national economic policy, those who sit opposite believe that what they claim is the States responsibility somehow has no effect on the national economy. When they were in government they never accepted the proposition that a policy for cities was something very close in scope to national economic policy. In 1971 Australia's 10 Largest cities held 68 per cent of the national population, and the 120 cities and towns of 5,000 persons or more held 82 per cent of the national population. Moreover, this concentration is rapidly increasing. Between 1961 and 1971, almost 90 per cent of the national population growth occurred in the 10 largest cities. The economy of the cities comprises most of the national economy. Inefficiencies in cities are reflected as national inefficiencies. National inefficiencies were inherited by the Australian Labor Party. That is what we have to accept. We inherited this quagmire. The former Government left us a building industry which was greatly overstrained, which had very limited supplies of building materials and which lacked the necessary skilled manpower. 
But the construction of a house is only one part of the overall cost. The great inflationary component in the cost of housing lies in the cost of the land on which the house is to be built. Let me cite some figures. In Sydney the percentage of the cost of land, as a component of the total cost of the land plus the average cost of a private house, in 1968 was 34 per cent; in 1971 it was 41 per cent; in 1973 it was 47 per cent. In New South Wales, the most critical area of all, nearly 50 per cent of housing cost is represented by the cost of land. In Melbourne the percentage rose from 29 per cent in 1968 to 31 per cent in 1971 and 32 per cent in 1973. I ask leave of th,: House to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the cost of land as a percentage of the total cost of housing in Australia's major cities so that the House can really see the story in full. 

<graphic href="088131197404025_22_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="088131197404025_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. I have spoken about the legacy left to us by the previous Government in the building industry and about the legacy of inflationary land prices. The third great legacy the previous Government left us was its failure to accept any responsibility for catching up on the backlog of essential services in our major cities. The most obvious one of these was the provision of sewerage. The previous Government refused to provide money to catch up on the sewerage backlog. Does anyone here suggest that we should allow communities to be formed and that we should allow houses to be constructed without at the same time providing water and sewerage as essential services for those new communities? Yet the previous Government failed to do anything about this critical problem. In Sydney over 15 per cent of the population lives in unsewered areas. In Melbourne the figure is roughly 16 per cent and in Perth it is 50 per cent. I might say for those smug Queenslanders on the back benches that 84 per cent of that so-called affluent society on the Gold Coast live in unsewered areas. One in six of the people of our cities in Australia do not have sewerage services. 
In our first Budget we began the great task of making up this backlog by providing$30m to the States for this purpose. It was only the first step. Is this matter not interconnected with housing? Do honourable members opposite still want to put their heads in the sand and think that they can deal with housing in isolation? Unlike our predecessors in government we do not equate housing with shelter. It is not enough to erect acres of houses in social and environmental wastelands. We must recognise that if we are to put houses, and therefore people, into an area we must also have the responsibility to provide all the facilities and social opportunities along with the original development. That is why this Government's policy recognises the interconnection amongst urban investments. That is why this Government is seeking the co-operation of each State Government to establish land commissions. 
Under these commissions large tracts of land can be acquired ahead of development. Before the area is rezoned from non-urban to urban the land should be acquired by a public authority. This land could then be made available at fair prices for comprehensive development to developers, individuals and housing commissions. I personally favour the Else-Mitchell report which recommends that residential land should be freehold with the development rights maintained by the development authority or the State, but in the case of commercial or industrial land it should be leasehold as it is here in Canberra. 
In our first Budget we set aside$30m to the States for land commissions to invest in land. We set aside$33m for our new cities alone. Most of that money was to acquire land. Under the policies proposed by the Australian Government we would no longer need to build new suburbs without jobs, transport, shops, schools, parks and social and community centres. We are offering the States the opportunity through the land commissions not only to improve dramatically the standard of urban living. Through our related policies on roads, on making up the sewerage backlog, on urban public transport investment, on the environment, on education, on social welfare programmes and on health we are also seeking to bring an end to the isolated and incomplete development of new urban areas. We want to involve people in our planning and in our new communities so that the people themselves know what they want. Personally, 1 do not believe there can be any push button solutions to urban problems from Canberra. We need the skill, awareness, concern and courage of men and women of goodwill if we are to succeed in overcoming our urban problems. We need the involvement of people. We need men and women of goodwill to work in the spirit of partnership and co-operation. 
Our initiatives in urban and regional development are designed to create a new and improved working urban relationship amongst all levels of government and amongst all levels of people. What is the new trendy or untrendy approach of the Opposition? It is arguing in its narrow concept as it has been arguing year after year after year. It has found no solution to the problem, particularly the former Minister who preceded me in this discussion. There was no preparation of the building and construction industry which is now so short of supply of both men and materials. It ls not unusual for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to advocate inefficient policies. The previous Government was notorious for such policies. 

 Mr Speaker, I say that we are aware of the problems, the grave problems, in the housing construction industry. We are aware that the have-nots' have suffered for too long. We are seeking by an interconnected policy to reverse this pattern of development. 
For the information of honourable members I present the following report prepared by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads: 
In March last year I requested the  Chairman  of the Bureau of Roads to make an assessment on the need for the freeway systems currently proposed or being pursued in the capital cities of Australia. Members of the House will be well aware that for some time now I have been a strong critic of the inner city freeway schemes, particularly those of Sydney and Melbourne. Prior to the last election I found it difficult to discover any in depth review of the freeway schemes which were causing concern to so many people. Accordingly, when I became a Minister, I initiated several studies. The report before the House today is a result of one of these studies. 
I was concerned to initiate this assessment because it seemed to me that the priorities on which the designs for many freeways had been prepared were contrary to the priorities of  the present Australian Government. This Government does not want to see a continuing build-up of the central business district in our major capital cities. This Government wants to use urban transport patterns to encourage the growth of new sub-centres within the existing metropolitan areas. This Government is opposed to the destruction of large parts of the inner city where there remains good housing stock. I will leave the statement there because I have little voice, but plenty of heart. I present the following paper: 
It was not my instruction that the letter be delivered by hand. I will make inquiries as to who gave the instruction. I think it was a waste of taxpayers' money. In regard to the allocation of the amount of money to the Bacchus Marsh Shire Council, a broader public statement will be made on that matter at a later date. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report to the Department of Urban and Regional Development on the Church of England lands in Glebe, New South Wales. The Australian Government has decided to purchase these lands. Because only a limited number of copies of the report are available a copy has been placed in the Parliamentary Library for use by honourable members. 
Is is regrettable that the honourable member for Bennelong used persons' names and attacked them in a question that will probably be his last question after many years service in this Parliament. 
Well, it is regrettable that the honourable member made some allegations. The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads is probably the most independent of all statutory authorities under Commonwealth administration. It has done a very fine job for the Australian people as a whole. It is very widely respected within the States. An independent authority is already looking at the aspects of inner city, mid city and outer city freeways. That authority has drawn on the experience of advisers from overseas and it has been found that whenever freeways have been used in inner city areas, they have solved the problems only on a temporary basis and that in the long term they have aggravated the traffic problem. Therefore, I believe that the assessment made by the Bureau of Roads is actually in line with the assessment of the Victorian Hamer Government. It is unfortunate that the conservative elements in New South Wales still want to stand by outmoded dogma set down some 30 years ago. I ask all honourable members to study in some detail the report of the Bureau of Roads because it is important that money allocated to freeways does not distort the overall provision of resources to urban development. If we misspend a great deal of money on inner city freeways, that will be money we cannot spend on other aspects of urban affairs. It is the policy of this Government to stop the over-centralisation of central business districts which occurred during the 23 years of the previous Government's administration. What we are trying to do is to bring about a rational growth of the major cities of Australia and to oppose the inner city freeways as an intelligent approach in an effort not to over-centralise but to rationalise the development of our major cities. 
For the information of honourable members I present an information booklet entitled 'Australian Government Assistance to Local Government Projects'. This is a guide to sources of funds and how to apply for them. It was compiled at the request of the Lord Mayors of the 6 capital cities to the Prime Minister at a meeting at the Lodge earlier this year. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'Development of Albury-Wodonga' dated June 1974. This report is about the initial policies and plans of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation for the growth of the city. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  The purpose of this Bill is to provide Parliamentary approval for construction of the Googong Dam and associated works in New South Wales as the next major water supply for Canberra and Queanbeyan. The existing water supply for the Canberra-Queanbeyan region will cater for a population of 225,000 people. There is a need for an immediate start to this project, as current population projections indicate that a population of 225,000 is likely to be reached in the Canberra-Queanbeyan area as early as 1975-76. The Googong project, in conjunction with the existing Cotter system, will meet the requirements of a population of 450,000 people. This population is expected to be reached in the region between 1982-85. The urgency of this project was recognised by the Government in August 1973. At that time Cabinet agreed that enabling legislation should be introduced which would authorise the project to be carried out by the National Capital 
Development Commission. Due to the dissolution of Parliament it was not possible to introduce this urgent Bill as had been intended and it is therefore now introduced as a matter of priority. 
The Googong project will be completed in 2 stages. It will include a regulating dam, pumping station, a treatment works near the dam, bulk supply mains to Canberra, a power supply 'and an access road to the site. When the project is complete, it will impound approximately 26,000 million gallons of water. This compares with 20,000 million gallons which is the capacity of the present Cotter system. The latest estimate available for the first stage of the Googong project, which is the major part, is $26. 5m. The second stage of the work involves augmenting the water treatment works and pumping station. The dam site is located on a short gorge of the Queanbeyan River approximately 5.5 miles from the main road bridge in the city of Queanbeyan. Five alternative schemes were carefully evaluated. A report on these alternatives prepared by the Department of Housing and Construction recommended that the Queanbeyan River should be developed as the next major step and that the dam should be built at Googong. 
The report concluded that the Googong proposal had a marked economic advantage over the other proposals examined, took advantage of a separate rainfall pattern, and provided water for irrigation and maintaining the water level in Lake Burley Griffin during drought periods. The preparation of this Bill has required contributions from numerous New South Wales and Australian government officials. This demonstrates that major public works projects can be successfully coordinated across Federal and State boundaries. The Seat of Government Acceptance Art 1909-1973 gives the Australian government paramount rights over the waters of the Queanbeyan and Molonglo Rivers and the right to undertake such construction works as are required for the use of these waters. 
The proposed works will be located within the State of New South Wales. This Bill, as well as adding the planning and provision of the Googong Dam project to the existing functions of the National Capital Development Commission, will also extend the Commission's charter to enable it to operate within the Googong Dam area for the purposes of this project. Direct negotiations between the relevant Australian and State authorities have focussed upon the important matters of land acquisition, provision of future water supply for Queanbeyan, regulations for control of the catchment areas and the interests of owners and occupiers of land downstream of the dam. It was necessary for the Australian government to acquire an area of approximately 4,900 hectares, or 12,000 acres, in New South Wales. This acquired area will include the reservoir, dam and building sites, and an area about a half-mile in width around the top water level of the reservoir and extending about 4 miles upstream on the Queanbeyan River and Burra Creek. The land was formally acquired and gazetted on 17 October 1973. 
Although the water from the Googong Dam area is intended primarily for the Australian Capital Territory, this Bill allows the Australian Government to provide water to Queanbeyan and other places in New South Wales. I might mention that the future growth of the Canberra region will mean that much more consideration will need to be given to regional water supply systems. Ownership of land in the catchment other than the acquired area will remain with current landholders under New South Wales State law. Catchment regulations have been developed by New South Wales authorities in consultation with Australian Government officials. These regulations will be enacted by New South Wales. While these regulations will apply at the outset, the Australian Government will retain the right under the Bill to make its own catchment regulations within the acquired area. The main catchment area consists of 81,000 hectares, or 200,000 acres of land. It has been largely devoted to grazing and cropping. The circumstances in which compensation for owners or occupiers of land who suffer loss or damage as a result of this project may be paid is explicitly defined by this Bill, particularly in section 13. 
The basic purpose of this project is to ensure an adequate supply of high quality water to meet the needs of a rapidly increasing population in the Canberra-Queanbeyan region. The passage of this enabling legislation is urgent so that tenders may be called for the project as soon as possible. This will ensure that impounding of water starts not later than May 1977. It will also reduce the possibility of water restrictions in the region during drought. The project has been developed with careful consideration for the protection and enhancement of the natural environment. 
Measures designed to protect the natural environment will include a soil conservation program to reduce erosion in the catchment area and sediment deposit in Lake Burley Griffin; the preservation of permanent geological features including the London Bridge; a natural limestone bridge over Burra Creek which is a geological feature with tourist potential; and the undergrounding of pipelines. 
The project will provide the opportunity of making available additional recreational, picnic and scenic areas close to the growing cities of Canberra and Queanbeyan. Undoubtedly, the creation of this large new expanse of inland water will present an opportunity for public enjoyment of it. A comprehensive environmental impact statement was prepared to consider the main environmental effects of the Googong Water Supply Project. I have emphasised a wide variety of positive results which will be derived from this project. However, the environmental impact statement identifies a number of areas which will require careful attention during the development of the project. 
Two areas which should be mentioned are the mine waste pollution from Captains Flat and the sewerage effluent from Queanbeyan. In this area, the Minister for Mines and Power, representing New South Wales, and myself as Minister for Urban and Regional Development, representing the Australian Government, convened a Joint Technical Committee on Mine Waste Pollution of the Molonglo River. A report of that Committee has stated that unless remedial work is undertaken at the mines there will be increased pollution from the waste dumps and that this could effect the usefulness of Lake Burley Griffin. 
In addition, the report has concluded that the construction of the Googong Dam could marginally increase the concentration of mine waste products in the lake under some circumstances. It should be stressed, however, that the basic source of the pollution is the abandoned mine workings and is not due to the construction of the dam. The report recommended remedial works to improve the water quality of the Molonglo River. The Committee estimated the cost of these works at $2.5m. In May of this year, the New South Wales Minister for Mines and Power agreed with me that the Committee should proceed to tender readiness for the implementation of the works as recommended by the Committee. I will shortly be discussing with him the method of financing these works. 
The problem of sewerage effluent from Queanbeyan has also been carefully considered. Possible solutions to this problem include the construction of a more advanced waste water treatment plant for Queanbeyan, or the acceptance of Queanbeyan effluent into the Canberra sewerage system. This problem will have to be faced irrespective of the Googong Dam project. I am awaiting a report resulting from the Canberra-Queanbeyan investigation set up by my Ministry which has been carried out by the National Capital Development Commission in association with the Queanbeyan City Council and the Yarrowlumla Shire Council. The effects of both the mine waste pollution and the sewage pollution will be lessened if necessary by releasing water storage reserves from Googong. Such releases are possible only until such time as the regional population of 450,000 is reached. However, both problems must be resolved at their source. My previous remarks should make it clear that the Australian Government is concerned to achieve this. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, early passage of this Bill is necessary to ensure that an adequate water supply is continuously available for the rapidly developing Canberra-Queanbeyan region. Tenders will be called in September 1974. In this way advantage can be taken of seasonal conditions to raise the dam embankment through its critical levels during the expected dry season between September 1976 and March 1977. Impounding of water will then start in May 1977. The Googong Dam project is acknowledged by both the Australian and New South Wales Governments as essential to the future development of the Australian Capital Territory and the surrounding regions. The building of this dam shows what can be achieved through co-operation between New South Wales Government and Australian Government Ministers and New South Wales and Australian officials. As the nation's foremost growth centre, the Canberra region is in a position to draw off population from the major urban areas of Sydney and Melbourne. The construction of the Googong Dam is an essential condition for the adequate water supply of this region for the next decade. J commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $15,750,000 for the purchase of certain lands at Glebe in Sydney, New South Wales. (Quorum formed.) The land is presently owned by the Glebe Administration Board of the Church of England. It is known as the Bishopthorpe and St Phillip estates in Glebe. It covers approximately 19 hectares, or 47 acres, on which stand more than 700 dwellings. 
 The church itself, the Leichhardt Municipal Council and resident groups have all asked the Australian Government to ensure that this unique leasehold estate should not be fragmented in ownership but should be retained in single ownership. The present Government is unlike the previous negative Government of which the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  who interjected earlier, was a member. It was negative for so many years. It would not act to acquire land, out of consideration for people. The opportunity to purchase this land came about in April 1973 when the Church of England suggested in its submissions to the poverty inquiry that it would be willing to sell the property to a public authority. My Department employed consultants to carry out a feasibility study for purchasing and rehabilitating the property. My Department also carried out an economic evaluation of the proposal. Originally, the land was subdivided and leased for 99 years, mainly for residential purposes. As these leases have recently been reverting to the Church, the houses have been sold, particularly to private enterprise, which honourable members opposite so readily represent. If this process had continued, the inevitable result would have been fragmented ownership of the estates and this would have meant the further loss of low income housing close to the city centre. Public acquisition of the property and rehabilitation of a large number of dwellings presents a viable method of providing housing in the inner city for low income earners and aged people. 
The main objectives of the purchase of the estate are to avoid the sudden displacing of the existing population and to avoid any disruption to existing community networks, and to retain the opportunity for low income earners and families and aged people to live close to the city as part of the wider community. The present Government is unlike the previous Government. When we came to office we found that in Sydney and Melbourne the people on middle class and upper class incomes were purchasing the terraced dwellings in the inner suburbs and of course booting the elderly people out to the outer suburbs. The Government has a real understanding of the problem. This is one of the reasons why we have purchased these lands. We wish to protect the residents that are now living within this area. I wish that the honourable member for Kooyong, who is interjecting, would have some real understanding of this, but of course he has never really had any understanding of people who really suffer. The other main objectives are to improve environmental conditions and social conditions of residents of the estate and surrounding area and to preserve the townscape and sympathetically rehabilitate it. 
The Australian Government has decided to buy these estates as a unit and so prevent private sale which could lead directly to the displacing of low income tenants. The buildings on the estate have substantial economic value and their retention represents an overall conservation of the community's resources. After a period of detailed evaluations and negotiations with the Glebe Administration Board, contracts were exchanged in May this year. I would like to express my appreciation to the Board for the co-operation it gave to officials of the Australian Government. The total purchase price is $ 17.5m, of which $1,750,000 was paid as a deposit in May. This Bill now seeks approval to appropriate the remaining $15,750,000. 
As honourable members would know, the inner suburbs of our cities have long provided a substantial part of the housing stock available to the lower income residents of the cities. During the last 25 years, however - of course, during 23 of these years the country was governed by the conservative reactionary forces that now reside on the Opposition side - this accommodation has been steadily whittled away. Houses have been torn down to make way for offices and other commercial premises, for freeway routes, and for a variety of public institutions. Low income earners have often been displaced to outlying areas far removed from their places of employment and from their traditional community ties. In addition, low income earners and aged people have in recent years faced increasing competition from middle and upper income groups for the reduced amount of housing accommodation. The return of wealthier groups to the inner suburbs of our great cities, particularly the younger professional groups well represented by certain rather selfish elements on the Opposition side, has been a marked trend in recent years. 
This trend has had some very good effects in some respects. As a result of it, many areas have been extensively rehabilitated; a greater degree of social mix has been introduced to the inner suburbs; and inner suburban communities have become better organised and more vocal in standing up for their rights against the many forces which threaten their homes. However, a continuation of the present trends will mean that soon very few low income people will be left in the inner suburbs to enjoy the improved conditions. 
There have been many efforts to find solutions to these problems in other countries. There has, for example, been the practice of building high-rise accommodation close to the city centre. Experience would suggest that this is not the ideal solution and in some cases may be a harmful practice. We should not be too willing, on the one hand, to adopt overseas solutions, nor too reluctant, on the other hand, to develop our own solutions to these problems. The purchase of these estates offers this Government, the State Government and the local Council the opportunity to cooperate in the rehabilitation of a unique area in the inner part of one of our great cities. 
This is a pilot project. The Glebe project is not simply an exercise in the renovation and construction of housing. It is also an exercise in community rehabilitation. It requires knowledge of the Glebe community. Our people must involve themselves at the local level in order to understand the problems of the Glebe community. It will require the application of a very great number of professional skills - planning, architectural, building trades, social work. These professional skills should blend with the environment of the Glebe both in its landscape and its community. The Govern ment is approaching the exercise in a spirit of exploration. While the Government has formulated certain objectives, which I outlined earlier, we remain open-minded on the ways and means of achieving these objectives. My Ministry will be working together with the Department of Housing and Construction on this project and my colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction and I will be jointly responsible for it. 
As well as working towards definite objectives another critical aspect of the Glebe project is the day to day management of the estate. The Government will become involved almost immediately with the problems of the tenants, many of whom need support from various social services. As well as the physical aspects of the project, then, there are also the more human aspects and I can assure honourable members that the Government will be concerned to look after the individual needs of the residents of this area. The Government intends to establish an information centre on the estates; later it is expected that this will become useful as a community planning centre. 
There is no doubt in my mind that this project offers governments the opportunity to develop policies for the inner city which have not previously been explored in Australia. As with a similar project at Emerald Hill in Melbourne, I am confident that in a co-operative way, we can advance the interest of inner city residents and of these 2 cities in general. 
In conclusion, I would like to correct the misrepresentation of the circumstances surrounding the purchase of this property. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! I would like to address a few remarks to the Opposition front bench. The level of conversation is too high and there are too many interjections. I have been fairly tolerant. The Minister is particularly sensitive. When he was in Opposition he was never known to interject. He was always very orderly. The interjections are obviously upsetting him. I would suggest that those honourable members sitting on the Opposition front bench keep the level of conversation down. 
In an address given to a gathering of the New South Wales Division of the Urban Development Institute of Australia on 20 June 1974, the honourable member for 
Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  stated that the Australian Government had purchased the Glebe lands 'without consultation with State Government or local government'. This is certainly not the case. I wish that honourable members opposite would check their facts. It is indicative of the Opposition's lack of interest in the problems of inner city areas that the honourable member did not make the effort to ascertain the facts, as I said. In considering the purchase, I wrote to the New South Wales Minister for Local Government and Highways,  Sir Charles  Cutler, and to the Mayor of Leichhardt Municipal Council, and I had discussions with the aldermen and the mayor of the Leichhardt Municipal Council. Officers of my Department and its consultants discussed the project with officers and aldermen of the Council and officers of the New South Wales Housing Commission. I can assure the honourable member that close liaison and cooperation with State and local government authorities and agencies will continue. It is of prime importance for the success of this project. Not only that but also the Glebe exercise will attempt to develop mechanisms of participation so that the people of Glebe and the wider community can have their say in how the project develops. 

 Mr Speaker, I believe that the lessons that will be learnt from the Glebe project, the detailed understanding of the problems of low income earners living in the inner city, and the solutions which emerge towards providing an effective way for the community to participate in shaping their environment will be of immense benefit to Governments, professional people and to all those concerned with improving the quality of life in our cities. We purchased the Glebe land to protect the people. We will seek their views on its future. We will enter into dialogue with them. We hope we can draw from each other. The Glebe project marks the commencement of a new spirit of co-operation with people, with people's organisations, with local government and with State agencies. This is the spirit with which the Australian Government entered into the purchase of the Glebe lands. I commend the Bill to the House. 
The. Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, has not communicated with the Prime Minister accepting proposals for land commissioner or land boards in New South Wales. I read in the Press this morning that  Sir Robert  had indicated that the New South Wales Government would be accepting the Commonwealth's proposal. The position is that in the last Budget an allocation of $28m was set aside for the acquisition of land through land commissions and in growth centres in New South Wales. The New South Wales Government did not agree to our proposals. In fact, it was not very co-operative in its discussions with us. It was only after the Government of Victoria, through the Premier,  Mr Hamer,  agreed to the proposal to establish a land board in Victoria that the Premier of New South Wales started to change his tune. Prior to the elections an agreement was made between the  Deputy  Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Charles  Cutler, and myself that we would enter into negotiations to try to alleviate the situation of spiralling land prices, particularly urban land prices, in New South Wales. The New South Wales Cabinet decided that  Sir John  Fuller would enter into negotiations with me. We have had two 3-hour discussions at which we have set down our policy and our program. The program is similar to the program we suggested 1 8 months ago and again prior to the elections. To date there has been no reply from the New South Wales Government. 
It is true that the average price of a block of land in Adelaide is $5,000. We have entered into an agreement with the South Australian Government concerning land commissions. We have also entered into an agreement with respect to Monarto. Last financial year alone we made available $8.2m for Monarto and $8m for land commissions in South Australia. The average price of land in Sydney is $20,000. The Australian Government believes that the only way- 
By way of interjection, the Leader of the Country Party asks: 'Why do you not compare it with Canberra?' The situation is that the average price at which land is being sold in Canberra at present is $5,400. I use the figures contained in the report of April 1970 presented by the National Capital Development Commission. The figures show that as a result of the progressive attitude that the National Capital Development Commission was then taking in developing land, the average price at which it was able to sell an unrestricted block in Canberra was $3,000. The price of land had been reduced from the 1962 level of $4,500 a block to $3,000 a block. This was a reduction of one third while the price of land in New South Wales rose by 150 per cent. 
The trouble was that the then Government, under Prime Minister Gorton, changed its policy. Not only was that policy changed but also in the credit squeeze of 1970 that Government restricted finance for servicing land in Canberra. Consequently, the price of land in Canberra sky rocketed until this Government came to power. In only 2 places in Australia is the price of land being stabilised. The first is South Australia as the result of co-operation between the State Labor Government and the Australian Government, and the second is the Australian Capital Territory where land prices have been stabilised under the administration of the Department of the Capital Territory. 
In regard to the Campbelltown corridor, discussions have been held with the New South Wales Government. As honourable members know, we propose to develop the land at Holsworthy and we wish to do so in co-operation with the New South Wales Government as part of the Campbelltown corridor. As a parcel deal, what we have sought is to acquire the whole of the Camden estate. That would be part of the development of the Campbelltown corridor. We have said also that if the New South Wales Government is to enter into an agreement to set up a development corporation - I might say that a great deal of progress has been made in discussions with the New South Wales Government on this aspect - we would require that Government to acquire all land which is now non-urban, before it is re-zoned. If the New South Wales Government agrees to that proposal, we will set up a development corporation for the Campbelltown corridor. As far as I am concerned,  Sir Robert  Askin is just using his statement as a gimmick for the 2 by-elections to be held in New South Wales next Saturday. Until such time as he communicates his comments to the Prime Minister, we will take not much notice of the New South Wales Government. 
Of course, the honourable gentleman wants to make this matter a mixed grill. I was dealing with the question of land prices in the Australian Capital Territory and with the record of the previous government. I might say that the record in regard to the Australian Capital Territory between 1962 and May 1970 was creditable. Actually, I gave the figures only for unrestricted land in Canberra and these fell between 1962 and May 1970. In 1962 the average price of a block of unrestricted land was $4,500. By May 1970 this had been reduced to $3,000. 
In the case of restricted land, in May 1970 the average price of a block of land was S900. Land at group sales was selling at $1,500 to SI, 700. That was the record. Unfortunately, a couple of important things went wrong when the previous Government was in office. The firing from the hip decision of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  during a by-election campaign changed the system of land tenure in Canberra. As a result of the credit squeeze of 1970 and the subsequent Budget, the resources of the National Capital Development Commission were restricted. 
Consequently between that period and 1972 the price of land in Canberra started to spiral. We inherited a very difficult situation. The former Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Enderby,  took certain action to try to rationalise the situation because the price was skyrocketing. Urban problems cannot be solved overnight. The decision made in April 1970 and the restricting of resources in the Budget of 1970 to the National Capital Development Commission created a problem. We will solve that problem within the next year or two in Canberra. In the meantime land will be made available. At present the average price of land made available in Canberra is $5,400, unlike New South Wales where, in Sydney alone,' the average price is $20,000. 
I have seen the statements made by the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin. Unfortunately,  Sir Robert  lias told only part of the story. So let me make the situation perfectly clear. The Australian Government, in setting up land commissions to make land available  to young people, does not want to sink into the subsidy quagmire of the previous Government. We are trying to make the land commissions business undertakings. Wc have said that the money will be made available at the long term Commonwealth bond rate and will be repayable over 30 years. We have said that for the first 10 years no capital or interest repayment will be required. We have said that the interest will be capitalised and become repayable in the latter 20 years of the loan, thus giving the land commissions the opportunity during the first 10 years to get off the ground and to get functioning without any debt burden. We have also said that representatives of the Treasury and the Department of Urban and Regional Development would have discussions with the respective State governments after 5 years for the purpose of keeping a watch on their cash flows and to see whether there should be any change in interest rates. A decision would then be made by the Australian Cabinet. 

 Sir Robert does not mention also that the purchase of open space land, such as land at the foothills of the Blue Mountains, on the Mornington Peninsula in the Dandenongs in Victoria will be subsidised by the Australian Government through its land commissions policy on the basis of $2 being provided by the Australian Government for every $1 provided by the State governments. So, although  Sir Robert  is trying to make some political capital out of these financial arrangements for the purpose of the Coogee and Goulburn byelections, these are very generous financial arrangements with the States and are designed to try to solve very difficult social problems. 
 in reply - I will be brief. The spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  did seek from me answers to certain criticisms. This project was commenced by the Liberal and Country Party Government, but there was a little procrastination in making certain political decisions and the project could have been under way a little earlier than this. I am not trying to score political points for the present Government. Basically, this project has been a remarkable achievement of the National Capital Development Commission which has worked' patiently with the New South Wales authorities to bring it about. As has been said, this project not only will protect the population of Canberra in the future but also will protect the people of Queanbeyan. This is important, because this dam is an alternative to the present catchment areas. Unless we have an alternative catchment area to take advantage of seasonal rains we could have real problems here in Canberra. This has been known for some time and the project should have been under way earlier than this. 
I also want to comment on the matter of the environmental impact statement. My colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  and his Department were also directly involved in the planning. In February 1973 Cabinet made a decision on these environmental impact statements. I regret that the statement was not tabled in Parliament, although it was made public and 300 copies were distributed. I apologise to the spokesman on the other side of the House. For the information of honourable members, I will make copies available in the Parliamentary Library. If I table the statement about 300 copies of it will have to be made available immediately; so I will make it available in the Library so that honourable members can look at it. If they have any criticisms of it, those criticisms can be raised in another place. I give the Opposition an undertaking that in respect of any project which comes under my administration an environmental impact statement will be tabled in this Parliament. 
Forward planning based on the reports developed for the Googong project will proceed immediately in respect of the next water supply project for the Queanbeyan and Canberra areas. In regard to Captains Flat, a joint governmental committee considered the effect of the polluted mine waters emerging from the mine, at Captains Flat and proposes work to divert the surface water which would other wise pick up pollution from the mine. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  and I have already had discussions with the New South Wales Minister for Mines and the New South Wales Minister for Public Works, and we have given a commitment that if the New South Wales Government does not carry out the required works under the terms of the Seat of Government Act the Australian Government will carry them out. Let me say this without any sarcasm: It took 23 years for the Opposition when in government to do anything about this matter, whereas within our first 18 months in government we made a decision that if the New South Wales Government would not meet its commitments under the Seat of Government Act the Australian Government would undertake the work that was required at Captains Flat. 
The cost of the Googong water supply project will be borne by the water supply consumers of Canberra and Queanbeyan. I stress again that the Government has considered sympathetically the situation of Queanbeyan. We treat the problems of Queanbeyan similarly to the problems of the fringe areas of our major capital cities. Canberra has probably one of the fastest growth rates of any city in Australia. Many of the problems are over the border in Queanbeyan and, because it is not Commonwealth territory, are thrown on to the New South Wales Government which in some cases has not the money to meet the commitment that needs to be met in those areas. So the Australian Government has committed itself to trying to do something about those matters. I hope to be making an announcement in the coming Budget session that further commitments will be made to the people of Queanbeyan because of the fringe problems they have due to the population growth of Canberra. Many people do not realise that the rate of growth of Canberra is nearly as fast as that of Sydney, and Canberra is absorbing increased population nearly as fast. Each year Canberra absorbs 6 per cent of the Australian population increase. That is done in an orderly, rational way. It has been carried out under the National Capital Development Commission. As the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  knows, I used to praise the Government on its achievements with the NCDC. The only thing that used to mystify me was: Why in heaven's name could such things be done in Canberra and nowhere else? Now we are doing such things not only in Canberra but also in Albury-Wodonga. We will work together with the New South Wales Government in Bathurst-Orange. We will do similar things in Geelong in Victoria and in Monarto in South Australia. If we are given any other opportunities we will meet with any State Government and do such things in other places of Australia. We cannot be criticised in that regard. The method of financing will be worked out to spread the cost over a reasonable length of time. 
The estimated cost of the Googong water to consumers, based on 1972 design report, is 50c per thousand gallons of water need. Of course assessments will be made when the dam is finished and in about 1982 the cost will have to be assessed on current prices at that time. The sale of water to Queanbeyan will be arranged by my colleague, the Minister for the Capital Territory. The question of compensation will be dealt with by the Department of Services and Property in the normal way. I hear a cackle from the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  He may cackle as much as he likes, but we have a policy which is not only an isolated policy for Queanbeyan. We have a policy for an Australia-wide position because we are moving, in co-operation with the State Governments, into a very large land acquisition program. The policy of both me and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  and the Government's policy, will be that of a gentle hand. We want to see landholders get a fair deal. If they want to sell their properties out quickly we will try to meet commitments as soon as possible. That is our policy. It has been our policy in AlburyWodonga where, together with the Victorian and New South Wales Governments we have acquired a great deal of land this year. 
I turn now to the matter of warrants to enter. We would always first seek the owner's consent before entering upon his land. The power is required only for temporary access. I do not want to speak at much further length but I stress that our attitude will be a rational one. We realise that this project is under the administration of the NCDC. It was commenced under another Administration. It was delayed because of procrastination. We have made a great deal of progress in a very short time. Be that as it may, the dam will be in the interests of this region and I think that the House should support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Just briefly let me say that the Department of Environment and Conservation has laid down guidelines for all Departments for the preparation of environmental impact statements. We do not want to build a monolithic Department of the Environment and Conservation but to encourage departments to work with due regard to effects on the environment. If the staff in the separate departments could function in this way we could avoid creating an enormous bureaucracy in the Department of Environment and Conservation. But that Department at any time can seek a public hearing on an environmental impact statement, as was the case with the report on the Molonglo Parkway. A public inquiry was held at the request of the Department of Environment and Conservation, even though the environmental impact statement was prepared by the National Capital Development Commission. 
Question resolved inthe affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Australian Government, in co-operation with the Victorian Government, has determined that 2 growth centres should be undertaken as joint projects in Victoria; that is, Wodonga as part of the Albury- Wodonga complex and Geelong. As to the other areas of Victoria, a study is being carried out at the present time jointly by the Department of State Development and Decentralisation and the Department of Local Government in Victoria and the Cities Commission to determine other growth centres. When further growth centres are to be determined an announcement will be made jointly by the Victorian Minister for State Development and Decentralisation and myself, after discussion with my cabinet Colleagues. 
In reply - I do not have time to reply in detail. Some question was raised about the purchase price of the property at Glebe as compared with its value. The Department of Services and Property valued it at more than $17. 5m. In other words we purchased at a price below the Commonwealth authority's valuation. I wish that honourable members opposite would do a little more homework. Apart from the 710 dwellings, 12 shops and 25 commercial sites, there is another area on which to construct 250 new dwellings. 
Frankly, I believe that history will prove that the decision to purchase this property is a very important decision. I hope that we can rehabilitate the area and get a general mix of people in the area, unlike Paddington and inner suburbs of Melbourne from which people on low incomes are being gradually forced out. I ask the House to support this decision because this is in fact an historic Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  I know that this will give you a great deal of pleasure because this property is in your electorate. I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
For the information of honourable members, I present an agreement between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia, the Government of the State of New South Wales and the Government of the State of Victoria in relation to the financial assistance for the development of the Albury-Wodonga area. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  said that I was an avowed supporter of zero population growth. That is false. What I have continually stated, both in writing and in speech, is that over the past 23 years Australia's growth in population has been 1.9 per cent - that is, 1.1 per cent natural growth and 0.8 per- cent growth from immigration. If that rate of growth continues till the turn of the century we will have a population of 23 million, which is an increase of 10 million. Most of these people would be absorbed in our existing cities. I have said that that is madness. I have advocated that we should work towards a 1 per cent increase in population which will include both immigration and natural growth. That is what I have said and that is what I have advocated. I will continue to advocate it. I do not want to be misquoted. I ask the honourable member for Warringah to quote me correctly. What I have said is on the record. 
Pursuant to section 15 of the Growth Centres (Financial Assistance) Act 1973, I present the reports of the agreement between the Australian Government and the South Australian Government in relation to the City of Monarto and the agreement between the Australian Government and the Government of Victoria in relation to the south-east area of Melbourne. 
Pursuant to section 15 of the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) Act 1973 I also present the agreement between the Australian Government and the South Australian Government and the agreement between the Australian Government and the Government of Victoria in relation to Emerald Hill, South Melbourne. 
I also present the following statements of principles which are attached to the various agreements: 
Land price stabilisation legislation. 
Urban land council. 
Statement of the purpose, structure and functions of a land commission to operate in South Australia. 
 The 3 Bills before the House, namely, the Roads Grants Bill, the National Roads Bill and the Transport (Planning and Research) Bill, transform the planning of Australian transport. The National Roads Bill will provide a 30 per cent increase in funds over those provided in the last 3 years. For the first time an Australian Government is giving national leadership to the basic problems of road transport. In doing this it recognises that transport decisions must be taken in a broader social and economic context than simple mobility. The theme of our transport planning must be to put people first - to take account of the impact of transport and other urban programs on the daily life of the people who live in our cities. 
I have in mind a White Paper presented to the British Government 2 years ago which stated this theme. It is titled 'Development and Compensation - Putting People First*. This paper is very relevant to the activities of Australian governments in planning our cities without dislocating the lives of individual citizens. I should like to state a few principles of this paper before turning to transport planning and its part in urban development. In this very progressive paper the point is made that all involved in development must aim to achieve a better balance between providing for the community as a whole and reducing harmful effects on individuals. The paper continues: 
In recent years this balance in too many cases h:is been tipped  aganist  the interests of the individual. A better deal is now required for those who suffer from desirable community developments. 
The truth of this statement applies just as strongly to the planning of urban change in 
Australian cities. Far too many times in Australia we have gone ahead with community developments that have caused disruption and disturbance to the lives of tens of thousands of people. We do not want to stop community development whose net effect is to make life more comfortable, convenient and pleasant. But we do insist that disturbance in the day to day lives of people should be kept to a minimum and that compensation be given for any remaining distress. It is against this broad general principle of concern for people that I want to consider transport policy. In total these Bills will give grants to the States of $ 1,126m over the next 3 years. They provide money for national highways, urban and rural roads and research into roads and urban public transport. 
In my remarks on these 3 Bills I shall concentrate on freeways which come within the span of urban arterial roads. For many years I have been depicted as an anti-freeway man. Because I have expressed doubts about freeways at times when the popular belief was that freeways would cure all our traffic ills I was also depicted as an anti-car man. I want to stress that I have never condemned freeways and cars as such. What I have condemned is the short sighted attitude that freeways will solve all our transport problems. It is a common belief that because car travel is increasing we need greater road space to absorb the extra cars. It is my belief that this sort of approach is founded on a fallacy. Car travel increases so we build more and bigger roads. This leads to more travel, more cars and calls for still more road space. This means that we are trapped on a treadmill off which we cannot jump. Encouraging an ever-increasing use of the car can only end in social and economic chaos. 
I believe that the basic fault has been to give too much attention to the supply side; that is to the vehicles, roads and tracks which provide our transport. We should be looking more at the demand side of the transport model; in other words, at the needs of people and of communities. The transport plans and programs developed in our cities during the 1950s and the 1960s are now being questioned in a very serious way. The root cause of this questioning is the neglect of social and environmental needs and failure to provide for the participation of the community in vital decisions. This sort of questioning has come from people who want to look at transport in  a  broader way than the professionals look at it. We have to ask 2 basic questions. Firstly, what are the essentials of a transport system which gives the users what they really want? Secondly, what sort of transport system will accord with the sort of community in which people want to live? 
What we want is a transport system which people can use and which will not disrupt their day to day life. There are many examples of this sort of intolerable disruption and displacement. We have only to look at the experience of inner city dwellers in Carlton and Collingwood in Melbourne and in Glebe in Sydney in recent years to see the evil social effects of this process. Even in more privileged areas freeways have a harmful effect on dwindling resources of open space in our cities. An example here is the loss of open space that freeway proposals would cause to residents of Greenwich and Lane Cove in Sydney. Of course we know that the New South Wales Government wants to expand freeways indiscriminately, particularly the north western freeway. We know that it wants to extend the north-western freeway through Lane Cove and Beecroft, through the electorate of the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  He must find it a confused situation. On one hand he finds that he is advocating and agitating for one line but on the other hand the bureaucrats and the New South Wales Government are tied to a dogma of some 24 years and they want to stand by that dogma. This is a question which every honourable member in this House has to ask. 
By far the most damaging effects are felt by social and ethnic groups displaced from the inner city. What happens to the old people who have lived - some of them for all their lives - in the area? They often have to move many miles to the outer areas of the city away from their friends, their local shopkeepers, their doctors and chemists and their familiar surroundings. For an elderly person the mere fact of having to change a doctor or a familiar storekeeper such as a butcher can be a very deep personal loss. Many people who are dislocated from that way of life find that the whole fabric of their life has been destroyed when they move to the outer suburbs of a metropolis. The value of compensation paid for old homes in the inner city often does not allow them to buy comparable space in the suburbs. 
What of those who rent a home? They cannot get a replacement and, if they can, at what price? This is the sort of massive displacement with intolerable social costs which I believe no government can support, particularly this Government. For the first time in this Parliament a national government has given leadership in relation to these priorities. Earlier I quoted from a paper delivered by the British Conservative Government. It sets down principles which are in line with what we are doing. So our proposals are not too radical. But the conservative elements on the other side of the House are so conservative that it takes them a long time to catch up with the progressive attitudes which are taken by the British Conservative Party. 
Governments have a duty to protect the delicate fabric of our society. It is people who make up society and it is people, especially old people, who suffer so much from displacement. Achieving the sort of balance which protects people and which allows desirable, urban change to be made is a problem which has afflicted all the major cities of the world in recent years. As a Government we do not pretend to have all the answers. We do acknowledge that the problem exists and that we must try to achieve a solution. For this reason I welcome the money which is given for research in the Bills which are before the House and in the urban transport Bills which were discussed earlier this week. I stress that this money should not be directed to transport research pure and simple. We cannot detach transport from the whole range of urban policies, so research into transport must be integrated with the whole field of urban research. Within our urban communities in this day and age we have to accept the principle of the inter-connection or inter-relationship of one aspect with another. We need an alternative to road transport. That alternative is provided for in the Bills which were introduced earlier into this Parliament by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and which dealt with means of upgrading public transport in the cities of Australia. 
Turning to the inner city freeways, it is important that State plans be viewed in a broad social perspective. The principles on which designs for many freeways have been based are completely opposed to the principles applied by the Australian Government. We do not want to continue the build-up of central business districts in our major cities. This is the end result of radial freeways. The Government wants to use its urban transport programs to encourage the growth of new sub- centres of employment, culture and commerce within existing metropolitan areas. 
'The honourable member for Gippsland who was Minister for Transport in the last Liberal-Country Party Government cannot really understand why we should upgrade rapid public transport and direct it away from the central business district. This has been done in Sydney. The central business district of Sydney has been over-built. The Rocks, North Sydney, Woolloomooloo and Kings Cross have been redeveloped. The whole metropolis of Sydney which stretches some 20 miles north, 20 miles south, 35 miles west and 35 miles south-west is geared to a peak load system. Irrespective of how efficient the transport system is, if it is geared to a peak load system, all the transport goes out empty early in the morning and comes back packed with workers. At night there is the reverse situation. A radial system, whether it is road or rail, cannot solve that problem. This Government has planned so that in our cities we will develop sub-centres along the transport corridor. 
In Sydney for the first time we have developed areas such as Parramatta, Penrith, Liverpool and Campbelltown, unlike the previous Government which put all its eggs into the one basket. The previous Government wanted to develop the area of Woolloomooloo with 15,000 Commonwealth public servants and it wanted to develop Spring Street in Melbourne with another 20,000 Commonwealth public servants. We said that was not for us. We decided that the first development in Sydney should be Parramatta and the next area should be Ringwood near Melbourne. Therefore, this Government rejects any concept that would destroy large parts of the existing inner city areas where there is good housing. It will resist any concept that destroys parts of existing cities where thriving communities and groups have their own homes. 
For these reasons we oppose the radial freeway system. The building of radial freeways encourages a far flung dispersal of a city's population, as I have already explained. People believe that they can live a long way from the central business district and still get to work quickly. This sort of belief is usually based on an illusion. Too many people are lured to the outer suburbs by radial freeways. The roads become congested and the clotting of traffic brings a demand for more roads. If these roads are built, the same cycle starts all over again. In the process, more and more inner city houses are demolished and more and more lower income people and older people are forced out of the inner suburbs, breaking the delicate fabric of their lives. A system based only on radial freeways is not the answer. It is more sensible to use a grid pattern of planning the road systems of our cities. This allows freeways to be balanced by ring roads and other types of arterial roads in a mix which preserves the inner suburbs yet provides for proper mobility based on the car. I hope that the Bills before the House will encourage grid roads and discourage mindless attitudes which drive radial freeways through inner city areas. 
It is the policy of my Department to work in co-operation with skilled State and local government officials. If honourable member: read the Bill they will find that there are certain responsibilities for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Department of Urban and Regional Development. We are involved in the national highways, we are involved in urban arterial roads which deal with freeway system and we are involved in other urban roads. For the first time under the Commonwealth Aid Road Agreement, other urban roads have been introduced, and an amount of $30m will be spent over the next 3 years. Through a partnership approach we may avoid succumbing to the outmoded dogma of some 24 years ago that is used by State authorities, particularly by the Main Roads Department of New South Wales, and causes them to build inner city freeways. Provisions are contained in the Roads Grants Bill for the national government to protect the national interest and to prevent moneys being spent on certain roads. But I repeat that with a co-operative approach - an intelligent approach - between officials and Ministers at the Federal, State and local government levels, we can not only avoid confrontation but we can plan better transport systems. In the area of urban and regional development, for which I am responsible, when ever I am dealing with State Ministers, State officials or local government officials I seek their co-operation to try to work in a way that is beneficial to all. The Bills before the House are a major step towards giving Australians the transport systems that will allow them to move about quickly, efficiently and reasonably cheaply. They are an attempt to fit transport planning into an overall urban and regional policy. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Pursuant to section 15 of the Growth Centres (Financial Assistance) Act 1 973I present for the information of honourable members a copy of an agreement between the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government relating to a study program based on the proposed strategic development study for Tasmania. 
The Committee is debating a message from the Senate which seeks certain amendments to the Australian Government's National Roads Bill. I believe that this Government is making a genuine effort to meet the views of the Opposition as expressed in the amendments sought by the Senate. The Government is prepared to make concessions and to compromise in an effort to get the funds allocated by these Bills to the States, the shires and the councils. The Government does not want to see this legislation- and therefore the provision of funds- delayed or jammed any longer in this Parliament. 
This is a genuine approach. We have been responsible in our approach and as responsible men we want to see the immediate flow of funds to the States for urgent road works and we ask those reasonable men on the Opposition side to have the same spirit. 
I am pleased about that. All right, let us get on with the business. Is the honourable member for Parramatta intending to rise? 
If an Opposition member does not rise, the Government agrees not to speak either. I just want to join with my colleague and stress one thing. This is an important step that we are making. The control and administration of programs for inner city freeway systems and all other freeways that must be judged on their merits under the urban arterial roads programs are no different - 
-Well, the principle here is that - 

 - Mr Chairman, I wish to clarify the situation. The determination of future growth centres will be a joint decision by the responsible Ministers in the respective States and by me as Federal Minister for Urban and Regional Development. So there will not be any problem in that regard. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones)  will clarify his position. There will be a consultative role with the States and I have made my position clear in this regard. There may be some technical details to be sorted out. The administrative arrangements within the Australian Parliament and with regard to the Australian Government are clear on our side. The Minister for Transport and myself, together with our departments, work in very close co-operation, unlike what was probably the chauvinism that existed under the previous Government. The situation that the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  forgets is that there has been a revolution in urban and regional affairs. Nothing was done in that field by the former Government for 23 years. We believe that you cannot deal with matters of transport, housing and land use without taking into account their inter-relationship and inter-connection. That is why the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in our Government, and their departments, have worked particularly closely together. I want to remind the honourable member for Gippsland, who was the Minister for Shipping and Transport in the previous Government, of what  Mr Jones,  the present Minister for Transport, stated on this matter during the last discussion at the Committee stage. He said that when Ministers in the previous Government produced legislation, including measures relating to beef roads, they permitted concurrence. Of course, our predecessors had no policy on urban and regional affairs. Therefore, they would not want any such legislation, could not understand any such legislation or any reasonable position when we introduced such legislation. But we will not delay the passage of this legislation just because the role I was to play has been deleted from it. As Ministers, we have agreed to work together as a team and we have our guidelines set down. We are not unhappy at all with our position. 
Briefly, the point made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  was that whilst this Bill was being debated in another place we made a statement clarifying the proposed authority of the Minister for Transport. This amendment conforms with that statement. The important principle that we are standing by is contained in clause 4(1) and clause 1 1 of the original Bill. We have accepted the clarification by the Opposition spokesman on transport matters, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  but we are concerned basically with urban arterial roads and urban sub-arterial roads because it is on those highways where major traffic congestion and other problems have occurred. Both the Minister for Transport and I when in Opposition continually pointed out the social, economic and environmental aspects of the destruction of many areas through the upgrading of arterial roads and the building of freeways. For many years we have condemned the radial road systems of the States. They have destroyed many inner suburbs of both Sydney and Melbourne. This has been a consistent policy adopted by the Minister for Transport and me. 
When we came into power we sought from the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads information as to whether there had been any study of the environmental, social and economic aspects of freeways. No study at all had been carried out during 23 years of mismanagement by honourable members opposite. From the Bureau's report we formulated our policies. The previous Government made money available to the States for projects which, in fact, destroyed completely some inner suburbs, particularly Carlton and Collingwood in Melbourne and Glebe and Leichhardt in Sydney. Now we are finding that even the middle class supporters of the Liberal Party in the northern suburbs of Sydney are opposing the extension of the Warringah Expressway. This legislation gives the Minister for Transport and the Australian Government authority over investment not only on inner city freeways but also on all freeways because each freeway must be judged on its merits. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  was concerned that we should ever have the legislative power to do this; now he says that we have to do it by persuasion. But how can we persuade some people who are committed to dogma that was set down a quarter of a century ago? There are engineers who want to create monuments to themselves. It is for this reason that we have to determine a sane policy. We have to take into account the social, economic and environmental aspects of freeways. 
I welcome the rather regressive attitude of the Opposition in the past to inner city freeways and freeways generally. In some cases freeways are an asset to our transport system, but they have to be integrated into our overall transport pattern. Thank goodness that at last after so many years those dull brains on the Opposition benches are now recognising that we must control investment on inner city freeways and selected freeways in other parts of our cities. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to provide extra funds for sewerage backlog programs in Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. Honourable gentlemen will be familiar with the vast national sewerage program introduced by the Australian Government to tackle the backlog in Australian sewerage programs. The Government regards the removal of the sewerage backlog and the ability of State and local government authorities to keep pace with the demand for new services as a yardstick of social progress in Australia. 
If we cannot provide the most basic of all services then quite clearly the structure of government in this country has failed the people it purports to serve. We have no cause for pride in the quality of services when millions of gallons of raw sewage is pumped each week into the seas off our coast, bays and inlets and into metropolitan rivers and creeks. A warning is sounded for future generations when we find that our rivers are recording a level of pollution from sewage which is alarmingly high. 
The experience of other countries reinforces this message. We do not want to see our oceans and waterways converted into running cesspools in the way that the great rivers of Europe have been polluted. The tragic experience of the Mediterranean and the Rhine, Elbe and Danube Rivers is a reminder to us of what can happen to our own seas, streams and rivers which are still untainted. For these reasons we have stressed the importance of this scheme and our determination to remove the sewerage backlog over the next 8 years. In particular the national sewerage program gives expression to our concern that all new land subdivisions should be given adequate sewerage treatment facilities. We also insist that these treatment facilities should meet standards which safeguard our environment. No house now being built should have to wait for long to be connected to a complete sewerage system. 
Beating the sewerage backlog breaks down into 2 parts- connection to a reticulated sewerage system, and overcoming inadequate trunk sewers and treatment standards. About one-sixth of the main urban areas of Australia were unsewered at December 1972 when this Government took office. They are the last figures available. There are many examples of the inadequacy of urban trunk sewerage mains and treatment works. I do not want to list them here. I have given details of them previously. I have touched on their existence to indicate the size of the problem and the level of capital spending that will be required to overcome them. They reinforce the point that these great problems will not be solved without heavy capital spending. Spending on sewerage works soaks up an enormous amount of capital, both for the expansion of services to meet growing populations and to chop out the backlog in services which now exists. It means that the States and local government cannot tackle the backlog and at the same time keep up with new services without strong support from the Australian Government. Without that support it is not possible, and it has not been possible in the past Unfortunately the sad thing was that previous Australian Governments would not become involved in the problems of urban areas. 
Provision of sewerage is often made difficult because of the existence of hilly, rocky and swampy country in many of the new areas developed around our cities. Septic tanks can provide a substitute in sparsely settled and relatively flat areas but it is at best a poor substitute. In fact in some cases, such as on the Gold Coast, a septic tank system in times of flood may become more dangerous than a system without septic tanks. In densely settled areas which have high water tables or are rocky or swampy the septic tank is no substitute for reticulated sewerage. We concede these difficulties but we are determined to overcome them and to provide the strongest possible lead for State and local government authorities to give the Australian people proper sewerage. 
It is appalling to have to record that the sewerage from 400,000 people in Brisbane is still discharged untreated into Moreton Bay at the mouth of the Brisbane River. The Melbourne Press in the past year has been studded with report of high levels of pollution from sewage on the beaches and bays of Melbourne. Quite often in Melbourne heavy rains force overflows of sewage into the city's stormwater drainage systems. This noxious waste is then transmitted through the suburbs of Melbourne. Most metropolitan streams in Australia record levels of E.coli which are completely unacceptable to this Government. These are examples of the social evils the extra assistance given by this Bill is designed to remove from our cities and countryside. 
The Sewerage Agreements Act 1973 appropriated $30m of loan funds at the long term bond rate to the States for sewerage backlog works for 1973-74. This was in this year only. In the new program which will be announced tonight will be a different arrangement which will be explained by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  I stress that this is additional to the normal allocation of loan money each year to the States for sewerage works. This program was tailored to fit the ability of the State sewerage authorities to speed up their works programs after this allocation was made. With one exception, the initial allocations to the States in 1973-74 have been spent. The total program for 1973-74 included 81 reticulation projects, 35 main, sub-main and carrier sewer projects, 6 pumping stations and 10 treatment plants. In the course of the 1973-74 financial year, it became clear that Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia needed further financial assistance. This was necessary to keep up the existing rate of progress of works throughout the whole of the year. It is important that the momentum built up by this program should be maintained so that the sewerage backlog in the main urban areas disappears in the shortest possible time. The Government's advisers reviewed the programs and we decided on agreements with the 3 State Governments for the extra works and extra moneys. These agreements will be effective once this Bill is passed. But for the double dissolution it would have been introduced in the autumn session of Parliament. 
Turning to the assistance sought by the States, Victoria asked for $3.95m, Queensland $2m, and Western Australia $3m. We have agreed to these allocations except for Queensland, where $lm will be made available. This means that the total allocation of financial assistance for sewerage backlog in 1973-74- the first year of administration of this Government- will be $37.95m. It will be distributed between the States in this way: New South Wales, $ 11.2m; Victoria, $ 13.25m; Queensland, $4.1m; South Australia, $1.6m; Western Australia, $6.8m; and Tasmania, $lm. The extra money will be made available on the same terms and conditions as in the Sewerage Agreements Act 1973. We have carefully assessed the impact of these programs on manpower and material resources. Most of the works have already been completed and therefore will involve no significant pressure on resources. Where works will not be completed for some months we have ensured that our allocations will not impose a strain on resources of both men and materials. 
I turn now to the programs for each of the States. The program in Victoria is important because good progress has already been made and the extra money will enable greater inroads into the sewerage backlog to be made. I am convinced that the additional funds will accelerate the strong drive the Melbourne authorities have started against pollution in metropolitan streams and along the bay-side beaches. It is only in such a co-operative manner that we can solve the problem 
In Queensland, the extra assistance will be concentrated on projects designed to remove the backlog of poor sewerage services in Brisbane. It will include the start of the Luggage Point treatment plant which will treat sewage from the main sewerage area of Brisbane to comply with Water Quality Council standards. This will bring important benefits to the environment in central Brisbane and in the outer suburbs of the city. 
In Western Australia, the extra assistance will mean that existing programs will be maintained at peak level. Without this assistance, the Perth Metropolitan Water Board would have to cut back its accelerated works program, and this would mean a reduction in contract staff. With regard to longer term programs, in the Budget session the Government will announce details of the form and level of finance to be provided. We have to solve these problems together. It has to be a co-operative effort between the Australian and State governments and local authorities. We intend to set out to work together in a cooperative way in what we call a spirit of cooperative federalism to try to solve these problems. The level of financial assistance under this Bill now before the House has been taken into account in preparing the long-term program. I ask honourable members to note that the form and level of finance proposed under the longterm program cannot be anticipated from the financial arrangements under this Bill. 
In summary, this Bill provides extra amounts of up to $3m to Western Australia, $3. 95m to Victoria and $lm to Queensland in the 1974-75 fiscal year as part of the program to cut out the sewerage backlog. The extra money will allow the level of activity reached under the existing accelerated program to be maintained. The funds will be provided under the same terms and conditions as in the Sewerage Agreements Act of 1973, a matter which I drew to the attention of the House earlier. This arrangement applied to that year only and a new arrangement will be announced tonight by the Treasurer. This was the first real drive of an Australian government to work together with the States and local authorities to overtake the backlog of sewerage, to protect the environment and to give every person living in an urban community the right to sewerage and better environmental conditions. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
-Minister for Urban and Regional Development) (10.34)- The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  is a great jar.gonist 
-Jargonist! He does not really understand the interconnection in environmental matters. I have dealt with him time and time again in regard to the Albury-Wodonga complex. I have said before in regard to the environment that everything is connected to everything else. The Albury-Wodonga complex is connected to the River Murray system which, if the waters or the environment be polluted, will affect the water system of South Australia, as would the water system of Canberra as Canberra is on the Molonglo River which in due course runs into the Murrumbidgee, which runs into the Murray River system. The same can be said of the Bathurst-Orange system. But thiss jargonist keeps resorting to jargon because, he says, he wants to make some criticism of the Albury-Wodonga complex, when in fact it appears that he does not want to look at any of the facts in relation to any of the other towns which are on the same river system. 
-Well, the sad thing about these men who do not understand the interconnection of the various facets of the environment is that they want to make criticism before they have really studied the situation. I have tried not on one occasion but at least on several occasions to try to educate this dull man from the other side of the Parliament. Action was taken by this Government to try to create some form of decentralisation in this nation. In the 23 years in which the Government of the Party which the honourable gentleman opposite, who represents a rural seat, supports was in office, the proportion of the Australian population resident in non-urban areas fell from 31 per cent to 14.7 per cent. This Government is trying to reverse that situation. To try to make our decentralisation policy work, we will draw greatly from the experience that has been gained in Canberra in seeking not to pollute our water systems. At present under constructionit will be in operation in about 2 years- is a water treatment works at the junction of the Molonglo and Murrumbidgee Rivers which will purify water to such an extent that one can drink the water as it is released after treatment of the sewage. Even the nutrients are taken out of the water. The same systems will be used in the development of the Albury-Wodonga scheme. 
Dealing with the question of the environment, I point out that no government in Australia's history has really tried to look at the problems of the environment as this Government has done. Tomorrow I will be tabling the report of the inquiry conducted by  Mr Justice  Hope of the Supreme Court of New South Wales into the national estate. That report is quite revealing. It is damning and critical of the previous Government for allowing the human environment of this nation to go into decay in the way in which it has. May I say in regard to appointments to the Cities Commission that there was already a wellknown environmentalist, unknown to the - 
-Unknown - 

-Dr Walsh is a well-known environmentalist.  His  appointment was not known at the time of the earlier debate. The honourable member can look at the debate which took place then and can prove to me if the name of  Dr Walsh  is mentioned that this fact was known at that time. The other environmentalist who was appointed was Jack Mundey. Frankly, I know of no other individual in Australia who has made a greater contribution to the physical environment in Australia than Jack Mundey. Not only do I say that, but such a great Australian as Patrick White, when asked to nominate the man he thought was the greatest Australian, said that in his view Jack Mundey was that person. He has taken positive action on many occasions to save many beautiful things in Australia. We find people from all walks of life, people from the middle class, from the wealthy sector of the community, when they cannot stop a building being destroyed, saying that they will have to connect with Jack Mundey and the Builders Labourers Federation. Why do we find such reputable organisations as the National Trust of Australia agreeing with and aligning themselves with such people as Jack Mundey, or find members of the conservation groups, whether they live in Hunters Hill or on the North Shore of Sydney or in remote sections even of Brisbane or in other places doing the same thing? When they cannot stop their sometimes regressive governments the clarion call goes out to try to get union action. I am not speaking out of turn when I say that I can name honourable members opposite who have made representations to me seeking to save certain historic buildings or theatres, if you want to get closer to home. When they could not get the developers to stop they said: 'Thank goodness we have been able to get Jack Mundey to stop the action'. 
One of those honourable members was a Minister in the Country Party and in fact that is the action they wanted to take. So let us drop this hypocrisy. The whole point is that the honourable member who has just sat down knows he is a humbug. 
-I will just say that they are a bunch of humbugs. 
-I withdraw the word 'humbug' as applied to an individual. All I can say is that they are a group of humbugs on the other side of the House. It is sad that the debate has fallen to this level, but the policies of the Opposition are so negative that it cannot find any positive policies to put forward. Jack Mundey resigned of his own accord from the Cities Commission. That is his business. I might say that he disappointed me personally when he resigned, but that is his business. I appointed him on a basis of goodwill, thinking he would make some constructive contribution to the environmental issue, but he resigned without notification 

 Mr GILES (Angas)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Uren) would reply to, was that although Parliament authorised, in fact instructed, the Minister to appoint 2 people, competent and trained in the field of environment and conservation, he has not done so. 
A point of order,  Mr Speaker.  What could any honourable member say are the qualifications for an environmentalist? Again, it just shows the hypocrisy of honourable members on the other side. 
A point of order,  Mr Speaker.  Hansard has taken a record of this discussion. The honourable member opposite has no right to make false accusations, which is what he is doing now. I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr UREN (Reid-Minister for Urban and Regional Development)- Yes, I do. It is recorded in Hansard that I said there was already one environmentalist on the advisory committee,  Dr Walsh.  I said at that time it was not recognised by honourable members opposite that there was an environmentalist on the Cities Commission. Because a request was made to have at least 2 environmentalists on the advisory committee, I appointed Jack Mundey, who became the second environmentalist on that committee. That is what I said, and you will see it clearly recorded in Hansard. Actually,  Dr Walsh  was not appointed in May. He was appointed by the previous Government, not in May. The previous Government in its dying days, in its last fortnight, suddenly became decentralisation minded. In the last fortnight of its 23 years of government it wanted to create a decentralisation policy. 
by leave- I join with my colleague the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  in tabling the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate. 
Before outlining to the House the noble concept of the National Estate which is enshrined in the report, I want to express my personal pride and satisfaction in its contents. It was a concept which I devised and publicised in the days when I was the spokesman on the environment and urban and regional affairs for the Labor Party in opposition. During the years between 1969 and 1972, 1 put particular stress on ^identifying the National Estate and promoting it as a key part of Labor Party policy. In the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in December 1972, he promised that a Labor Government would enhance and preserve the concept of the national estate. As a Government, we have acted swiftly to discharge the mandate given to us to identify, conserve and preserve the National Estate. 
In April last year,  Dr Cass  and I announced the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate, with  Mr Justice  Hope as  Chairman.  The other members of the Committee were Reginald Walker, the Federal Executive Member of the National Trust; Milo Dunphy of the conservation groups; Judith WrightMcKinney, a poetess and a great environmentalist;  Mr Len  Webb, of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation;  Mr David  Yencken, a progressive builder from Melbourne;  Mr Keith  Vallance, a Tasmanian businessman; and Judith Mary Brine, a university lecturer from South Australia. 
The Committee began its work at the end of May last year. It considered more than 650 submissions from Government, community and professional bodies, and from individuals. The Committee travelled widely, looking at important parts of our national heritage and so enriching its insights into the concept of the National Estate and how it should be identified and preserved. Its report was received by us in April this year, and its findings and recommendations were announced by the Prime Minister at the end of April. Now the full report has been printed and we are glad to be able to put it before members of the Parliament. The central theme of the report on the National Estate is set out in this extract from its findings and recommendations: 
The Australian Government has inherited a National Estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. All previous priorities accepted at various levels of Government and authority have been directed by a concept that uncontrolled development, economic growth and 'progress', and the encouragement of private as against public interest in land use, use of waters, and indeed in every part of the National Estate, was paramount 
The report goes on to confirm that this Government is the first Administration to make a commitment to charting the National Estate and conserving it, particularly for younger people and Australians of the future. I cannot stress too strongly that the Australian Government is determined that our National Estate will no longer be degraded and despoiled 
The Committee has devoted a great deal of work to defining with precision the things that make up the National Estate. It has opted for a very wide ranging definition of the National Estate which can be summed up in this way: Elements of such outstanding world value that they need to be conserved, managed and presented as part of the heritage of the world; elements of such outstanding national value that they must be conserved, managed and presented as part of the nation as a whole; and elements of such artistic, social, historical, cultural or other special value to the nation or any part of it that it should be conserved, managed and presented for the benefit of the community as a whole. This very broad definition of the National Estate includes elements of remarkable diversity and richness. The range of the National Estate extends from great national parks and awesome rain forests to a simple stand of trees or patch of coastline. It includes the remaining treasures of our colonial architecture and such homely parts of the national heritage as paddlesteamers and even a Chinese joss house. 
A pleasing feature of the report is its rejection of the widely held notion that conservation and preservation of the environment are a 'middle class ' issue. The Committee affirms this is just not true and that preserving the National Estate concerns us all. It shatters once and for all the illusion that the national estate is the preserve of the better-off members of the community. The forces which threaten our National Estate often bear most heavily on the less privileged. Poorer people suffer more intensely from the loss of parkland, familiar city and country scapes, and even dwellings. Deprived community groups have not the same access as the wealthy to other sources of personal enjoyment and fulfilment. That is why it is often the less affluent who are most active in working to protect the best features of our heritage. That is why the trade union movement has been active in trying to protect and enhance our National Estate. The pillage and neglect of the National Estate diminishes us all in equal measure. I also want to make it plain that I seek the support of people of goodwill whatever their background in protecting the National Estate and passing it intact to future generations. We will work with all those who want to protect those parts of our heritage that have been created by man or nature and are unique or are things of beauty. 
I want to make it clear that the Government has not been idle while it waited for the report of the Committee of Inquiry. In the last financial year more than $2m was provided to help the State governments and other organisations preserve the National Estate. In the Budget now before the Parliament, for 1974-75, this has been lifted to $8m. We have also announced our intention to establish a National Heritage Commission to administer our policy on the National Estate. This was one of the more important recommendations of the Committee. This Commission will be responsible to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and myself. We expect that legislation to set up the Commission will be put to the Parliament in this session or early in 1975. In the meantime a 17 member interim committee has been set up to help bridge the gap between the Committee of Inquiry and the proposed Heritage Commission. The Committee is headed by  Mr David  Yencken who performed valuable services as a member of the Committee of Inquiry. 
I refer honourable members to the attention given by the report to the role of the Australian Government in fostering the national estate. A number of new roles have been suggested for the 
Government. The Committee's broad recommendations cover land use planning, conservation and reservation techniques and the principles of national parks. They extend to the impact of mining, forestry and coastal development on the national estate. The report also proposes a national register of sites of historic and scientific interest, and measures to protect and preserve important Aboriginal sites. No future Government will be able to ignore the impact of the report and its implications for the careful planning of future public policy to safeguard the national estate. The work of  Mr Justice  Hope and his Committee deserves the highest praise of this Parliament and all Australians. We are also grateful for the help and co-operation given by State and local government authorities, by a host of voluntary organisations, and by hundreds of individuals. All have helped in the great task of developing and refining the concept of the National Estate. The report of the Committee is a symbol of the great physical and cultural heritage we have been fortunate enough to inherit. Now we must act with firmness and vision to ensure that future generations will not lead their lives satisfied with a National Estate which we have spoilt. 
Finally, it gives me some personal pride that an idea drawn from my own philosophy and personal feelings, and reflecting the ideals of great socialists of the tradition of William Morris, should bear fruit in this noble concept and this fine report. In the spirit of the report we will strive to create and preserve things and places of great beauty for all Australians and for the Australians that follow us. Such a great sharing of beauty and culture among all of our people is firmly based on the contents of this outstanding report. I urge honourable members to give it detailed study and assure them that the Government will act positively on its recommendations. 
As honourable members are aware, the sewerage backlog in our major urban areas in Australia was a major social problem when we came to power. In fact, 50 per cent of Perth homes were unsewered and in Sydney and Melbourne one-sixth of the people lived in unsewered homes. Honourable members will also be aware that most of the sewerage authorities had an enormous debt burden. In Perth, for every $ 1 collected they had to pay at least 50c in servicing charges to meet their interest debts. In Melbourne the figure was 58c in the $1, in Sydney 52c and in Newcastle 53c. In our first year of office we made $3 8m available at the long term Commonwealth bond rate, repayable over a period of 40 years. Although these financial terms were better than previously, if we were to solve the States' problems we had to try to improve the financial arrangements so that the State governments, together with the Australian Government, could alleviate the enormous backlog of sewerage problems in urban areas. Therefore the Australian Cabinet decided that this year it would make available approximately $100m to the sewerage authorities and State authorities to try to overtake the sewerage backlog. Of the $100m made available, 30 per cent would be interest-free non-repayable grant money and the remainder would be at the long term Commonwealth bond rate. 
For the information of honourable members I present Occasional Paper No. 1 by the Cities Commission entitled 'Overseas Experts ' Reports 1 973 '. 
in reply- In summing up the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill I would like to point out that this is the end of the allocation for the first year's program. The legislation would have been carried through to finality if the double dissolution had not been brought about. Requests were made by each of the States. Actually if we had made available the expenditure that was required to meet our commitments we would have had to make available $83m in the first financial year. The situation is that in discussions with the State governments and the sewerage authorities we found out that both men and material were not available. So we had set up before Cabinet a program for a $50m expenditure and a $30m expenditure. We took die lower figure in the first year because we were concerned about the problems that were being caused in the construction industry due to the pressure for both men and material. 
We stated quite clearly to the States that if they could carry out programs in excess of that figure we would do our best to meet their requests. Consequently in relation to environmental matters in connection with Port Phillip Bay the Premier of Victoria sought a further $3.95m. We agreed to that program. That clarifies the situation in relation to Victoria. Perth had set up its program in anticipation. Because it was said that unless a further $3m was made available last year- that amount was requested last year by the Minister for Works in the former Labor Government,  Mr Jamieson  unemployment would occur in that sector, the money requested was made available. From Queensland there was a request for $2m. This proposal was discussed and an agreement reached with the Queensland authorities. Enormous pressure had been imposed on men and materials in clearing up the flood problem in Queensland. The Australian Government made more than $50m available for work in the Moreton region. This money enabled works and repairs to be carried out and compensation to be paid. 
Our discussions in Queensland were with the Co-ordinator-General's Department. If honourable members were aware of the discussions that took place with the States they would realise that in the proposed program and in other programs to overcome urban problems there has been a spirit of co-operation and coordination. Sewerage is an enormous problem. The first spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  said it would cost $ 1,000m to catch up with the sewerage backlog in Victoria. The present estimate of the total cost of a works program to attain the objective of sewerage of all urban areas of Australia is $3,800m at June 1974 prices. The contribution required from the Australian Government is likely to be about 40 per cent of that amount. The Australian Government will be making available approximately $ 1,500m. I announced this morning that there will be new financial agreements. 
Criticism has been made of the financial arrangements. I stress that in most cases an antiLabor administration was responsible for the current need for the proposed sewerage programs. It was during the 23 years of mismanagement by previous Liberal-Country Party governments in the Federal sphere that the enormous State debt burden was created. I ask honourable members to bear in mind that it will cost $3,800m on June 1974 prices to catch up with the urban sewerage backlog in this nation. 
This morning I explained that for every $ 1 collected by the Perth authority 50c must be paid to service the debt charge. In Sydney the cost is 52c in every $1; in Newcastle 53c, and in Melbourne, where there has been a non-Labor administration since 1 955, it will cost 58c in every $ 1 to service the debt charge. Since 1955 Victoria has been administered by Liberal-Country Party forces and, until 1972, in the Federal arena there were anti-Labor administrations led, firstly, by  Sir Robert  Menzies, then by  Mr Holt,  followed by  Mr Gorton  and  Mr McMahon.  In the Federal arena we had a musical chairs government. The internal debt of the Federal Government hardly changed between 1950 and 1973 but the debt of semi-government authorities- sewerage charges play an important part- increased by 2,800 per cent. So let Opposition members not criticise the present Government. It was the Whitlam Government that said it would try to solve the sewerage problem as part of an overall urban problem. 
The honourable member for Boothby referred to inflationary pressures. One of the major objectives of this Government is to curb inflation. Inflation was created by private enterprise and it commenced in 1971. In the 2 years from 1971 Australia's overall liquidity increased by some $2,000m because in that period our exports exceeded our imports. However some $3, 000m of foreign capital flowed into Australia. Men and materials were in short supply in that period. A further $2,000m was released by the fringe banking institutions without any control by the then Federal Government. On the question of liquidity I point out that in 1970-71 the private banks liquidity was $4,500m, in 1971-72 it was $4,900m and in 1972-73, $5,900m. In May 1974 there was $8,900m or an increase of $2,000m between May 1973 and May 1974. One-third of this was triggered off by the Reserve Bank's expression of opinion that we were in for a massive withdrawal of capital after the December and February appreciations of the Australian dollar. 
If one examines sanely where inflationary pressures were created, one appreciates that when an enormous amount of capital is infused into the economy in such a way that money is chasing too few goods and too few men and materials, one has an understanding of the real situation. We, as a national Government, are trying to solve these problems. It is incredible to think that in 1974 50 per cent of a city of the magnitude of Perth is unsewered. An anti-Labor Administration has the financial resources to sewer Perth much earlier. It is utterly stupid to think that in this day and age when we can put men on the moon one in every 6 families in Sydney and Melbourne are still living in unsewered areas. From an environmental viewpoint we not only want to sewer all urban areas but also to make sure that there is environmental protection of all areas, such as Port Phillip Bay. Perth is concerned about its water supply because in the future it might have to rely on subterranean water. We can no longer permit areas to be unsewered. We must take account of the possible long term consequences if areas are not sewered. In Brisbane at present what is almost raw sewage is being poured into Moreton Bay. 
AU Australians must be sane about these matters. The Australian Government has a national responsibility as part of its interconnected policy It believes that everything is connected to everything else in urban living and it is taking upon itself a responsibility to work with State and local authorities in providing sewerage works and in ensuring proper environmental standards for our nation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. As I announced this morning, the money to be made available in the first year of the program will be made available at the long term Commonwealth bond rate and will be repayable over 40 years. These are the best financial terms given to any sewerage authority. The sewerage authorities usually have to pay at least one-half per cent to three-quarters per cent more than the long term Commonwealth bond rate, and instead of being able to repay the loan in 40 years they usually have to repay within 1 5 to 20 years. 
When my State colleagues and I entered into an agreement for the 1973-74 financial year only, I said that when we had more facts and details and more information available I would then put a submission to my Cabinet colleagues for a better financial deal for the States. Having done that, I announced this morning that my colleagues supported the attitude of my Department and I and had made grants available. The money we are making available is all by way of grant, because it is above the normal loan allocation that is made each year at the Australian Loan Council. All this money is being made available by way of grant under section 96 of the Constitution. In future 30 per cent of it will be provided as an interest free non-repayable grant and the remaining 70 per cent will be provided at the long term Commonwealth bond rate. Those terms will assist the sewerage authorities to improve their environmental levels and lower their debt burden, and will assist the States, local sewerage authorities and local government authorities to get on with the job of sewering all our urban communities. I hope that all honourable members Will support the principles as set out for the 1973-74 period of our new on-going 3-year program. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
BUI read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The Australian Government has a commitment to the purification of the Adelaide water scheme as part of a plan to improve the quality of urban living in all our cities. For some time now the quality of water in Adelaide has been very poor. We have committed ourselves to supporting the South Australian Government in establishing purification plants throughout Adelaide at a cost of some $73m on present day prices. Our commitment this year was $4.4m. The terms will be made up of a 30 per cent grant from the Australian Government- interest free and non-repayable- and a further 70 per cent will be paid for in loan money at the long term Commonwealth bond rate. I stress to honourable members, particularly those Opposition members from South Australia, that we are concerned not only with the purification of the water in Adelaide but also with trying to purify the water of the Murray River which was neglected for so long. There are people who criticise the development of Albury-Wodonga, saying that it will aggravate the quality of the water in the Murray. We are concerned with the Murray 
River system catchment, whether it is AlburyWodonga, Bathurst-Orange or Canberra, all of which are in the same water catchment areas. The water from all these areas finishes up in the Murray River system. We are concerned with the quality of the water and the environmental approach in the same way as we are concerned with purification, which will cost us enormous amounts of money because of neglect in the past. 
For the information of honourable members I present 2 Ministerial Council communiques entitled: 'Official announcement of the planning strategy for Albury-Wodonga, 29 June 1974' and meeting of Ministerial Council for Albury-Wodonga Development held at Hotel Canberra, 23 April 1974. 
I move: 
After 'Parliament House' add: and buildings and works associated therewith. 
I explained the reason for this amendment in my speech on the second reading of the Bill. It is an administrative matter. The National Capital Development Commission cannot clearly identify the area to enable work to be carried out in association with the proposed committee which I have suggested should be set up by both Houses of the Parliament. 
I welcome this move by my colleague, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Les Johnson)  to decide once and for all the site of the new and permanent Parliament House. There is no reason why there should be any further delay in confirming a site and getting on with the work of this great national project. Both Houses of Parliament have made it perfectly clear that their firm preference for the site is Capital Hill. I accept the decision of a clear majority in both Houses. As the Minister responsible for the National Capital Development Commission, which is the planning and constructing authority for Canberra, I want to get on with the job of building a fine new and permanent Parliament House. It is true that on the last occasion when the question of the new and permanent Parliament House was before Parliament, I pressed strongly for the choice of Camp Hill as the site. This contradicted my long held and often stated belief that Capital Hill was the best site for both practical and symbolic reasons. Members of Parliament were not slow to point out my apparent lack of consistency and that was fair enough. I argued strongly for Camp Hill during the debates last year in a spirit of compromise because I thought it was the best way of getting a quick start to this building which has so long been delayed. I do not now believe that I took the right course, but I do not regret putting a compromise case for Camp Hill at that time. It was done in the belief that this question of the new and permanent Parliament House should be approached in a spirit of idealism tempered by commonsense. The decision of both Houses that the new Parliament House should be on Capital Hill relieves me of any further responsibility to push Camp Hill, so we can get on with the job. 
There is no doubt that the building which we are in today is worn out and outmoded. It was built in 1927 as a temporary building and those who built it expected it to last not much longer than 25 years. The building has a certain grace and a distinct flavour of political history, but for every day use it is grossly inadequate, both for staff and for the parliamentarians themselves. In recent years this has produced a series of expedient and inefficient alterations that have been extremely costly and yet have not stopped the rapid erosion of the accommodation facilities of members. Despite the constant facelifts, the building is hopelessly inadequate for any of us to perform properly our tasks on behalf of the Australian people. The staff and the functions of Parliament House have multiplied while the accommodation facilities have deteriorated. It is now a matter of considerable urgency that we resolve the question of a site once and for all and start immediately on the planning of a building for a new and permanent Parliament House. 
After the debate in the Parliament in the latter half of 1973, I asked officers of the NCDC to make an urgent study of the consequences of putting the new Parliament House on Capital Hill. I accepted the decision then of the majority of both Houses of Parliament, and I asked my officers to start working then so they have not been waiting for a further decision of this Parliament. They have accepted the majority decision then set down by both Houses of Parliament that the new building would be on Capital Hill. Therefore, they have been planning since that time according to what they believe to have been a sensible decision by the majority of members of Parliament in both Houses. I am pleased to tell the Parliament that my officers have concluded that Capital Hill provides an excellent site for a fine parliamentary building. In every way the site of the building would enhance the national capital. Before we resume this debate after its adjournment today, I intend giving members a brochure outlining the work done on assessing the Capital Hill site in relation to planning and building a new and permanent Parliament House. I will also approach the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and the  President  of the Senate for permission to mount an exhibition in King's Hall which will present these matters in visual form. The Commission and I are anxious to present to Parliament all the information it needs to speed up the preparation of the Capital Hill site. 
The Bill put to the House by my colleague is a simple one. There are some practical matters which I think should be incorporated in the Bill. I foreshadow that I will move amendments in the Committee stage. I first want to identify more clearly the respective areas of Capital Hill and Camp Hill. Another aim of the amendments will be to widen the definition of 'Parliament House' to include buildings and works associated with it. There are machinery problems in getting a resolution of both Houses of this Parliament for minor changes and alterations to plans. For this reason I will suggest that there should be scope for incidental and minor alterations and that for these purposes a resolution be not required. 
This Bill gives the Parliament a chance to make a final decision on the site. It also gives the Parliament the right to veto design proposals for the new Parliament. The Bill does not give Parliament the opportunity to play a creative role in the design and building of a new and permanent Parliament House. I would like to state some firm principles which I strongly support. The design of the building is the responsibility of an architect, who must be given every chance to exercise creative talents without undue contraints. The great buildings of all ages have been the work of gifted individuals who have been allowed to work in a way which gives their creative impulses scope for fulfilment. While conceding this sort of licence to the forces of imagination and creativeness, I also believe that if an architect is to design a great building the functions of that building must be defined for him with the utmost clarity. 
Accordingly, I recommend to the Parliament that a joint parliamentary committee be established. The aim of this committee will be to work in the name of the Parliament, in cooperation with the National Capital Development Commission, to write a detailed brief for the architect who will design the new and permanent parliament house. I would expect that this parliamentary committee and the Commission would work closely on a day to day basis in prescribing the requirements of the building and ensuring that the designer met those requirements. I am confident that, with this sort of joint approach, we can create an outstanding building which truly reflects the aspirations of our people, our parliament and our Constitution. 
I want to stress one point to those honourable members who talk about inflationary pressures and the pressures on building and construction, and who refer to the cost involved. As the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  has said, the actual expenditure in the next few years will be little. In fact, I have been informed by my officers that very little money will be required in the next 3 years when only major planning programs will be going on; there will be no actual construction at all. One must realise that this project will take time. I propose to distribute to honourable members a brochure setting out what the accommodation arrangements will be over the years of construction, the possible alterations to the existing Parliament House and how much we can extend it to make further office accommodation available to members, officers, and the parliamentary staff. So, I do not want any hysterics as to the enormous costs involved. I believe that a nation with the potential for expansion and development that Australia has must make this decision. We must make that decision soon and it would be better if it were made as soon as possible. This must be done to determine the site. Then we can get on with the planning and create in our time a building that will be worthy of all Australia. 
I rise to answer briefly a few of the words of criticism directed by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  at the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  Firstly, I think it can be said quite clearly that no Minister in the history of this Parliament has brought more real social justice to the administration of the portfolio of social services or social security than has the present Minister. In fact, the Minister for Social Security has lifted the rate of the single pension from a little above 20 per cent of average weekly earnings to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, and he has done so in the 20 months that he has held office. No other Minister has been able to achieve that in his period of office. 
The present Minister for Social Security has feeling and compassion. He has a real commitment to people. In fact, he realises the great difficulties facing nursing homes, the problems facing this Government and the problems created by the previous Government. Therefore, I think that one has to give credit to the role that the present Minister has played. He is a young man, comparatively speaking in political years, who has made a great impression not only on this Parliament but also on the nation as a whole through his contribution in the administration of his portfolio. I see in the House at present 2 members who formerly held the portfolio of social services. One is a former Country Party Minister for whom I have little respect. 
I have due respect for the honourable member. I am talking about his administration of the portfolio he held. I have respect generally for the honourable member. 
I have little respect for your lack of compassion in your role as Minister for Social Services. You were a miserable failure because you were a hard-hearted man. The world knows it. This Parliament knows it. The position is a little different when I refer to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I disregard the differing attitudes on certain foreign affairs matters that the honourable member for Mackellar and I held. On matters of some internal politics, the honourable member has always shown a deep consideration, particularly in the administration of social security. I know that he worked particularly hard with a rather regressive government which could not understand the priorities he wanted to bring forward in the social security field. He cannot deny the fact that in the short period of 20 months in which he has held the portfolio, the present Minister for Social Security, in a very difficult inflationary time, has been able to lift the rate of the single pension to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. That is an important principle. Average weekly earnings have been rising, but the Minister has been able, despite these great difficulties, still to raise the pension to that level. 
The result is that the single pensioners in particular will not really feel the pressures of inflation to the same extent as they did in former years. Even though the honourable member for Mackellar fought in the same way for social justice in his own Cabinet, he was not able to gain, I might say, the support of the Treasury or of his Prime Minister to introduce such benefits. He most certainly wished to give the benefits of a revolutionary change, if I can use that term, to those people who had been treated so badly for so long. He knew the injustices. He knew how badly they were treated. 
I turn to the other point of criticism which I wish to answer. In his speech, the  Deputy  Liberal Party Whip, the honourable member for Griffith, argued that he had been unsuccessful in gaining the call to ask his second question in the course of questions without notice in the last several weeks. This same frustration is suffered by all who sit in Opposition. I know that even on the Opposition front bench this frustration is suffered unless a member is the Leader of the Opposition or the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Great frustration is suffered in trying to ask a sufficient number of questions without notice. In fact, the average number of questions that we were able to ask when we were in Opposition in the last parliamentary session in 1 972 was four each. 
What is the reason why the honourable members on the Opposition side cannot gain the call on a sufficient number of occasions in the course of question time? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has asked 27 questions without notice in this session alone. How in heaven's name can the honourable member expect to get the call when 27 long, dreary, dull, flat questions without any feeling are asked by his Leader. That is the reason for his problem. A revolt should be staged in the Opposition ranks. More intelligent questions come from the back benchers than from the Leader of the Liberal Party. It is about time that honourable members opposite rebelled against this man because he is monopolising question time. I see the  Deputy  Whip of the Liberal Party agreeing with me. It is about time that honourable members opposite took action against the dreary, dull questions asked on behalf of the Opposition by the Leader of the Opposition and demanded the democratic right of back benchers to ask questions without notice. 
Unless honourable members opposite stand up to the Leader of the Opposition, they have Buckley's chance of getting any opportunity to ask any questions. I have it on record that 27 questions without notice have come from the Leader of the Opposition. I might add that his  deputy  the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  has asked 5 such quesions while the honourable member for Griffith has asked only one question without notice. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has asked 12 questions without notice. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  who is siting on the front bench now- he is a bit dreary himself- has asked 5 questions without notice. That is the reason why the problem has arisen. If honourable members opposite want democracy to function in this Parliament and they want the opportunity to ask more questions, thus enabling them to put their points of view through questions, it is about time that they told the Leader of the Opposition that he should cease asking his dreary, dull questions. The honourable member for Griffith has already agreed with me - 
You have already agreed with me. You can ask more intelligent questions than the Leader of the Opposition. I see the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  agreeing with me. He agrees that he also could ask more intelligent questions than the Leader of the Opposition does. So I think the 2 matters that have been raised by the honourable member for Griffith have fallen flat. First, he attacked personally the Minister for Social Security who in fact has made a real contribution to this Parliament. He has been one of the great Australian Ministers responsible for social services or social security. He is a man of compassion.  His  record, as proven by the percentage statistics comparing pensions with average weekly earnings, is one of which he can be proud. 
The other matter with which the honourable member for Griffith and other Opposition members must deal is how they will assert their rights through the democratic processes available to them. I take it that his Party has a Caucus procedure and that in that Caucus he does have some democratic rights. He can at least say within his Caucus: 'Look, it is about time that we, as back benchers of the Liberal Party in this Parliament, had the right to ask questions without notice at question time without that period being monopolised by the Leader of the Opposition'. I point out that the Leader of the Opposition monopolises that period not only by asking questions but also by taking frivolous points of order. At question time today,  Mr Speaker  had to call the Leader of the Opposition to order for taking frivolous points of order. He was told he had to wait until he was called, otherwise he would be - 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
There was a commitment in the Budget by the Australian Government for urban and regional water schemes. There was a commitment for the north-west water scheme in Tasmania and also for the water purification scheme in Adelaide. There have been discussions between my Department and the Tasmanian Department for some time on this matter. A commitment has been made to an extent of something like $ 10.5m which will be spread over some 6 years. The commitment agreed upon in principle was that 40 per cent of the scheme would be paid for by the Tasmanian Government and 60 per cent by the Australian Government. Of the Australian Government's commitment of 60 per cent, 30 per cent will be in interest free non-repayable loans and the remainder will be lent at the long term Commonwealth bond rate, which is the same as the provision for the national sewerage program. 
The reason why there was no financial commitment in this Budget was that the details had not been finalised between the Australian and Tasmanian governments. But there is a contingency in my Department's commitment with Cabinet If there is an agreement this year, an amount of money can be provided in the Supply Bill in autumn to make sure that this work can commence. The reason for our commitment is that on the north-western fringe of Tasmania there are many small schemes in which many of the water supplies are extremely dirty. These small schemes are a poor way of dealing with the matter. We were approached by a regional organisation. We have supported the whole concept of local governments coming together as a region and in principle we have given them moral support to do so. We are now giving them physical and financial support. It is for this reason that we will be supporting a regional water scheme to administer this proposal. 
Pursuant to section 2 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957 1 present for the information of honourable members the 7th annual report of the National Capital Development Commission for 1973-74. 
I can state clearly that no Australian Government funds were made available. I will have inquiries made into the matter and will make a full report available to the honourable member. I can say definitely that no Australian funds were involved in the transaction. 
I want to make some general comments about the strategy adopted by the Government in drawing up this Budget. Within this framework I want honourable members to look at the broad philosophy of our policies for urban ?nd regional development. In the mass of words which has been devoted to the Budget, the basic thrust of our strategy has been obscured. But it is worth stating again what the Budget is designed to achieve and to measure this against the alternatives put forward by the Opposition. 
The vital point of our strategy is that the Government drew up a Budget the fiscal impact of which was intended to be neutral. This is indicated by the end result of the Budget calculationsa projected domestic surplus of $23m. As far as I am aware, Opposition comment has ignored the intended fiscal impact of the Budget. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has lashed out wildly at the Budget without giving any hint of the preferred strategy of the Opposition Parties. In particular, the Opposition has claimed that the Budget is both inflationary and likely to increase unemployment. These claims have not been supported by a single shred of logic. Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues favour a tougher Budget designed to cut inflation by using policies of demand management. This would deflate the economy in the most drastic way. 
In this case the Opposition would want a much higher domestic surplus- perhaps one of the order of more than $ 1,000m which would certainly produce a massive contraction in economic activity. This would bring in its wake an intolerable increase in the level of unemployment without any certain impact on inflation. Such a result could be achieved only by slashing into existing welfare programs. If the Opposition wanted to cut Government outlays where would it apply the pruning knife? Would it cut down on education, on social welfare, on health and on urban and regional policies? On the evidence of the Opposition's statements over the past few months this is not the result that its economic strategy is intended to produce. This impression is strongly reinforced if we weigh up the few figures that have appeared in Opposition statements. 
As I understand it, the Leader of the Opposition wants a tax cut of about $ 1,000m and a reduction in the growth of Government outlays from around 34 per cent to 25 per cent. In effect he is recommending the raising of less revenue than the Government has budgeted for with his suggestion of bigger tax cuts. The Leader of the Opposition is also suggesting lower expenditure with a reduction in projected outlays on Government programs. The point is that these reductions largely cancel each other out in terms of fiscal impact. The important thing is not the size of the aggregates. What is important is that the relationship of revenue to spending is in much the same balance in the proposed Budget of the Leader of the Opposition as it is in our own actual Budget.  His  figures on both sides of the ledger are lower but the outcome in terms of Budget strategy is very similar. In other words, the Leader of the Opposition is supporting a neutral Budget, one that has not been devised to contract the economy or to expand it. We maintain this is the correct approach and I am pleased that the Opposition agrees with me in reaching the same end result. 
It is nonsense to suggest that there is any great difference in impact on inflation and employment between Government and Opposition policies. The Budget before the Parliament implies a moderate cooling off period in the impact of fiscal policies. In particular it permits some scope for easing monetary policy which is the most important instrument now restraining business expansion. The Government is now taking advantage of this flexibility to release some of the curbs on monetary policy and to give a stimulus to business activity. Neither of these aims would have been possible if we had opted for a more expansionary budget. On the other hand, we ruled out a policy of severe deflation because of the intolerable level of unemployment it would produce. In the circumstances, there is no doubt in my mind that the adoption of a neutral strategy was the most just and humane course. As I have pointed out, the Opposition has accepted this strategy by implication, although its spokesmen are too deceitful and devious to spell it out publicly. 
I turn now to the impact of our urban and regional development policies on the Budget strategy. The Budget Paper on urban and regional development indicates a most significant increase in spending on these programs in the Budget. One of the major initiatives and achievements of this Government has been its recognition of a national responsibility for the development of our cities and regions. The Government has made a commitment to putting right the consequences of past neglect, creating new opportunities and enhancing the quality of urban life. The central areas of our cities are a dramatic example of past neglect. We know how badly they have been overcentralised in the past 23 years. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  talked about the rural areas that he supposedly represents. We know that in fact during the 23 years of reign by the Government he supported the non-urban population of Australia fell from 31 per cent to 14.7 per cent. We have to overcome that trend and that sort of neglect and try to make our existing major cities reasonable places to live in. 
There has been a concentration of wealth which has had the effect of dehumanising what should be a stronghold of the people. These activities have been expressed in a willingness to rip apart the inner city suburbs which have stocks of cheaper housing that cannot be easily replaced. This disrupts the life-style of thousands of people by forcing them to the fringes of the cities in search of cheaper housing. Social disruption on this scale is a terrible blow particularly to elderly people who are denied the consolation of a familiar environment and amenities and are faced with costly and inadequate public transport. 
The program which I have outlined on many occasions in the past 20 months is the first attempt by an Australian Government to recognise the national character of the problems of cities and to tackle them with broad policies. We are now talking about 85 per cent of Australia's population which was neglected for so long by previous governments. We do not claim that we have yet evolved a fully balanced program of action and spending, but we do believe that our urban priorities are right. This explains the sharp rise in the total programs of my Ministry from $167m in 1973-74, to $433.7m in 1974-75. An allocation of $ 140m for Canberra is included in this total amount and it should be noted that Canberra is described in the urban Budget Paper as a growth centre. At the moment, Canberra is a major alternative to living in the State capitals. The Government has inherited huge backlogs in Canberra- backlogs of serviced land, public housing and in particular office accommodation for Commonwealth public servants. We have to pick up these backlogs and pick them up quickly if we are to prepare properly for the future growth of Canberra. Canberra is our real growth centre at this moment because it has reached the stage of self-generating growth. It will be some years before our growth centre programs have advanced sufficiently to take some of the heat off our population and resources pressures in the capital cities. 
It is the only way that growth can be absorbed. We cannot absorb people in places like Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst, Orange or Geelong, which have been nominated as growth centres, because it will take some time to catch up the backlog of services in those areas and to prepare the infrastructure for the growth program. If we are to divert some of these pressures away from Sydney and Melbourne in particular, the major tool we have to do the job is the continued growth of Canberra. In particular, we need to diversify its employment base. This explains why Canberra is included in our total urban program- a factor which should be taken into account when assessing the impact of spending on urban and regional development. 
Turning to our major urban programs, the Budget has allocated about $243m for 1974-75. This is a very substantial increase in the comparative figure for the previous year. An obvious reason for this sharp rise is that as a new Department we were not geared last year to embark on our programs at an appropriate level of spending. Our programs are now much more advanced. The guidelines have been set and we can now move on to expand and develop them with the sort of spending foreshadowed in the priority given to urban and regional development by the Labor Party. Inevitably, there has been criticism that these programs are too ambitious and that they are inflationary. I completely reject these lines of argument. Unless there is a diversion of public sector spending to the cities and regions we cannot combat the host of urban and environmental problems which have been created by years of indifference, opportunism and uncoordinated planning by previous governments and in some cases many of the State governments. 
The Budget strategy which I outlined earlier is based on increased involvement by the public sector. The false argument is often stated that public sector spending is more inflationary than is private sector spending. This is wrong. A dollar of public spending is no more inflationary than a dollar of private spending. The Opposition seems to argue that by transferring resources back from the :public sector to the private sector and supplementing this with a substantial tax cut an effective attack on inflation could be made. In my view the reverse would happen. The result would be an explosion of demand in the private sector with tremendous pressures on wages and resources. The current employment problems provide scope for expansion of Government programs. It is not inflationary to expand public demand against a backdrop of a shortfall in private demand. In these circumstances it is reasonable for the Government to expand programs in this way, particularly programs with a strong welfare element which are so difficult for those conservative and affluent representatives on the Opposition side to understand. By contrast, the Opposition would cut back sharply on health, education, social welfare and urban and regional development. It wants to reduce the growth of public spending on everything except defence which it wants to increase in complete defiance of the logic of its overall economic policy. 
In the Government's view the increase in spending on these programs will not be inflationary. With specific urban and regional development programs it can be argued most strongly that they are extremely useful in an inflationary context. Our programs can be classified in 2 ways. On the one hand, we have devised programs designed to increase the supply of urban land, particularly residential land, to assist the young people. On the other hand, we have programs designed to provide the infrastructure which supplements an increased supply of urban land. Both these sets of programs are closely interconnected and they form the key elements of our attack on urban land prices. By increasing the supply of urban land and providing the infrastucture whose absence augments land costs, the Government's policies form a sharp-edged weapon against inflationary pressures. The only other way to bring down land prices is to use Government intervention to suppress the demand for land. I doubt whether free enterprise parties opposite would support this sort of drastic use of Government power. 
There is no doubt that land prices make up one of the key components in the inflationary process. Land speculation is the main symptom of inflation and the main running sore once inflationary symptoms are built into the economy. In a climate of high inflation, land speculation is the most attractive form of investment, given the limits on the supply of land. This means that it both underpins and expands the whole dismal psychology of high inflation. Surely there is no better way of tackling this sort of inflation than by striking hard at land inflation by increasing the supply of land. Our policies are also designed to attack inflationary pressures by providing the basic services such as sewerage, drainage, roads, kerbing and guttering and so to make building blocks available at lower prices. 
For these reasons the urban and regional development budget has been drawn up to complement the Government's broad budgetary strategy. The impact of these programs has been carefully weighed in terms of potential strain on resources. I hope that all members opposite understand that. We are satisfied that our programs will not feed inflation- quite the opposite. By attacking speculative pressures on land and housing, they will act to check and contain the surges of inflation. The new involvement of the Australian Government in this area requires an initial build-up of Australian Government funds. I want to make it quite clear to all honourable members that there are no instant solutions to urban and regional develpment problems, to land costs or anything else. The problem cannot be solved by turning off a light switch because the problems have been engendered over long years of inactivity by the former government. 
The honourable members who sit opposite are the guilty men. 
Urban and regional development policies will be useless unless we can direct more of the nation's resources to overcoming the problems of the cities and regions. There has been some suggestion that this diversion of resources has been achieved by a level of taxation that is not justified. This sort of argument is based on the fallacy that somehow it is better to leave the bulk of resources in the private sector and not divert any to providing better services and facilities in our cities and regions. It ignores the dependence of individual welfare on the welfare of the whole community. Surely the taxpayer is not worse off if part of his income goes to paying for better public transport, more sewerage, cheaper land for housing, improved amenities for local communities. It is impossible to challenge the need for greater spending in these areas and this is why we have embarked on a firm policy of directing resources to them. Now is an appropriate time to speed up this switch of resources to urban and regional programs and the Government has acted to do this in its Budget. 
In my remarks today I have sought to explain the Government's philosophy in this vital area of policy against the background of total Budget strategy. I will outline our major programs in detail when the Urban and Regional Development Financial Assistance Bill comes before the Parliament. I call on all honourable members to support this Budget. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I seek leave of the Committee to move both amendments circulated in my name together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
After 'work' insert 'excepting therefrom incidental or minor alterations, additions or rebuilding of existing buildings or works'. 
There are obvious problems in getting a resolution of both Houses of Parliament to allow for minor changes and alterations to plans. It would not detract in any way from the powers of the Parliament to supervise the building of a new Parliament House to allow a measure of flexibility. There should be scope for incidental or minor alterations, additions and rebuilding of existing buildings or works to proceed without reference to the Parliament. Quite clearly, we could reach an intolerable situation if every minor detail included in the plans had to be thrashed out in this Parliament. This amendment will give a measure of discretion in the daytoday fulfilment of the Parliament's plans for a new Parliament House. I stress again that it will not detract from the Parliament's overall powers of surveillance. 
For the other amendment to clause 4,I move: 
After 'Camp Hill' add 'that is, in the area delineated by hatching on the plan set out in the Schedule '. 
The purpose of this amendment is to identify more clearly the area covered by the designations of Capital Hill and Camp Hill. In simple terms, we want to know clearly what we are talking about when we refer to Camp Hill and Capital Hill. The map to be included in the schedule sets out the area where Parliamentary responsibility extends and where only the Parliament can authorise building. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 

 Mr UREN (Reid-Minister for Urban and Regional Development)- I move: 
At the end of the Bill add the following schedule: 

<graphic href="091131197410175_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

Honourable members will note that on the back of the circulated list of amendments is printed a schedule. This provides a map of the parliamentary triangle, with the Camp Hill and Capital Hill area indicated by hatching. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I present for the information of honourable members the second annual report of the Department of Urban and Regional Development for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
-It is true that $2. 5m was allocated in the Budget last year to the National Estate. Recommendations were made on the National Estate by a committee of inquiry into it led by  Mr Justice  Hope. The recommendations of that committee were accepted by the Australian Government and grants to the amount of $585,000 were made available to the State of New South Wales. To date we have reached no agreement with that State on the National Estate. We have reached agreement with all the other States. It is interesting to note that the  Chairman  of the National Trust in Victoria has commended the Australian Government for its co-operation with the Victorian Government in preserving the National Estate in that State. I must say that we have received co-operation from all State governments except the New South Wales Government in the preserving of the National Estate, yet Sydney and its surrounds have some of the most historic buildings and unique areas in Australia. The destruction of those buildings is going on continually, but the New South Wales Government has taken no legislative action to preserve the National Estate. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Cities Commission Act 1972-73 I present for the information of honourable members the second annual report of the Cities Commission for the period 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1974. 
In summing up the debate on the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development I point out that we are discussing this Department for the second time. My Department is a new department. I inform the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  that in establishing this Department the Australian Government determined that it would be a major policy department. In urban affairs and in the field of the environment everything is connected to everything, else. In other words, there is an interrelationship with all urban matters- land use, transport, housing or what have you- because they involve people and the lives of people who live in urban and regional communities. I know that it is very hard for honourable members opposite to understand this comprehensive approach. The estimates that we are debating are for my own Department, which is encompassed by my Ministry, the Cities Commission and the National Capital Development Commission. When this Government was elected to office on 2 December 1972 we knew that there were urban areas that had been grossly neglected by the previous Administration over a period of 23 years. In fact, an amount of $4 16m has been allocated in this Budget in this field but only $67m had been allocated by a previous government in the financial year 1971-72. That money was for the development of Canberra by the NCDC. This year we are allocating $ 1 40m to the NCDC. 
In the setting up of my new Department, even though it has been set up in Canberra, there has been a spirit of entering into a dialogue with people at the local level, with private organisations, with local government organisations, with State government and Federal Government departments. It is important to inter-relate the whole of the aspects which are involved. We do not divorce one aspect from the other. In case anybody has any doubts about this I point out that if we are to solve the problems of urban and regional development, bearing in mind that 85 per cent of the Australian population live in these areas, we must have a spirit of co-operation not only between the Australian Government, the State governments and local governments but also with the private sector and the people within our community. We need the co-operation of all organisations, both public and private. We need the involvement of the people. No other department situated in Canberra really integrates, contacts and talks to people at the grass roots level or involves itself with people more than my people do. 
I was pleased to note that the 4 young speakers who spoke in this debate from this side of the chamber- in support of the Government- the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)-  really have an understanding of what our policy is about. They have a real understanding of the policies which need to be considered and understood. I am indeed proud of them. We have found that in urban communities which are over-centralised the crisis that has occurred has really taken place to a greater extent in the 2 major cities of Sydney and Melbourne. Even though the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and myself as the 2 major spokesmen on this matter for many years were fringe.dwellers we found ourselves co-operating with members of the Australian Country Party who wanted decentralisation, and for the first time action has been taken by a Government to try to do something about decentralisation 
During the administration of the previous Government the population of non-urban Australia was 31 per cent in 1947 but by 1970 it had fallen to 14.7 per cent. It is our policy to slow down the growth of our major capital cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. We had to try to rationalise the development of those cities because they had expanded and had become over.centralised. The heart of those cities was overcentralised. There was an over-development of the central business districts of both Sydney and Melbourne. We sought to bring about rational development in those cities, and that is our objective. We set out in our policies to bring about a rational transport system. This year we have initiated a program and provided funds for the States on a $2 for every $1 matching basis to upgrade public transport systems. We are trying to rationalise the road systems. We are trying to bring in new techniques in the field of housing. 
In an attempt to give some real assistance to local government we have made available through the Australian Grants Commission an amount of $56m. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  criticised the Government over local government indebtedness, as did the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  but let me give honourable members opposite some idea of the debt structure that existed under the administration of successive Liberal-Country Party governments led by Menzies, Holt, Gorton and McMahon. In that time the Australian Government's internal debt remained fairly static. There was very little change during the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party administration. But the States' debts increased sevenfold. Local government debt had increased by 2,000 per cent. In the case of semi-government instrumentalities such as sewerage authorities the debt increased by something like 2,800 per cent. When young members on the opposite side talk about the problems of local government and the problems of urban cities I remind them that this is what we on this side of the House have inherited. I stress to all honourable members that you cannot solve the problems of urban and regional affairs overnight. There are no instant coffee solutions. 
We are trying to do something about these problems. We are trying to do something about all the cities in both rural and urban areas. We are trying to enhance and protect the National Estate. For the first time we have introduced an inquiry into the National Estate to try to preserve it. This is not on the basis of centralism. This is on the basis of a spirit of co-operation. The only way in which we can really solve this problem is by co-operation and dialogue amongst all levels of government- -Australian, State and local- and the private sector and even the individual. We all have to work together to preserve those things which have been created by man and by nature which are unique or beautiful and worth preserving for posterity. 
In the first year of the Labor Government's administration I was able to get from the Federal Treasury $2.5m for the National Estate. This year $8m Will be allocated to preserve and enhance the National Estate. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  criticised the attitude of the Federal Government towards Queensland. He should ask the conservation groups in that State and the National Trust of 
Queensland which was the first national government that came to the aid of the National Trust in Queensland and he will be told that the Whitlam Labor Government was the first one to assist it. 
We can talk about the question of regions. It is said that the Whitlam Labor Government is a centralist government. Is it a centralist government? We have done more than has ever been done before to bring about equality amongst the 3 levels of government in a spirit of co-operation. We are not trying to dictate policy to the regions. The allocation for administration this year is less than $500,000, because we want to see leadership come from the grass roots. We want the regions to make requests. We want to know what their needs are. That is why we are not thrusting anything on them. Everything is done on a voluntary basis. The regions to benefit from Federal assistance have been decided in co-operation with the State authorities and have been discussed with local government authorities. Dialogue will be held with these authorities to determine what their future may be. 
The honourable member for Petrie asked about the Government's promises on sewerage. We will analyse the question of sewerage. On present day costs without any inflationary input, it will cost the citizens of Australia $3, 800m to sewer all our urban communities in a proper way, which will protect the environment. We believe that the national Government will be paying 40 per cent of that cost. As I said earlier, after 23 years of the administration of the former government the debt burden of semigovernment authorities has risen by 2,800 per cent while the internal debt of the national government remained static. 
What was done in the first year of the Labor administration? In that year we were able to make available $37m at the long term Commonwealth bond rate repayable over 40 years. We did not think that those terms were good terms but they were the best terms that had ever been made available to semi-government authorities in their history. This year, with the support of my colleagues, I was able to get Cabinet approval to make available $104m, 30 per cent of which will be in the form of non-repayable grants with the remainder to be repaid over 40 years with interest calculated at the long term Commonwealth bond rate. I remind the honourable member for Petrie that this year Queensland was able to draw $ 1 3.5m. It received no assistance for 23 years, but in one year it received $ 13.5m from the so-called centralist Whitlam Labor Government. We have made this money available to the Bjelke-Petersen Government in Queensland. 
I could speak about many other things, but I should answer briefly the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  who sought certain information about the area improvement programs in the western sector of Sydney. He said that last year $5m was made available and that this year only $2m was made available. That is not the situation. Last year, the first year of the program, $5m was made available. Included in that $5m was money that would normally have been spent through the departments of Tourism and Recreation, Transport, Social Security, Education and other departments as well as through the Australian Council for the Arts. This year, which is the second year of the program, we have been able to work in co-operation with all other areas within our Government. Money will be spent by the departments I have mentioned as well as by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
I stress that in looking at the urban and regional development of our communities we have to make sure we have continuing and interconnected policies. We have to look at the long term urban strategy. We have to look at the urban and regional development budget program. Money should be spent wisely and not spent wrongly as it so often was in the past. I believe that the only way we can do these things is by encouraging a spirit of co-operation with other levels of Government. My Department and my Ministry work in a spirit of co-operation with all levels of government, with citizens' organisations and with the citizens themselves, because my administration believes in dialogue with the people- we have trust in people- with people's organisations, with local government, with State authorities and with its fellow departments in the Federal system. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated present mean cost of servicing a residential block in Canberra is $4,298 which includes water ($461), sewerage ($453), roads, including kerbing ($1,2 17). Another significant element is stormwater drainage, which can be as high as one-third of the total cost. Lesser amounts are involved for footpaths and entrance drives. Construction fees, overheads and land resumption are included in the total. The cost of electricity reticulation, which is the responsibility of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority, is in the order of $250 per block. Residential land in the Australian Capital Territory is no serviced with gas. 
The cost of servicing residential land in the Canberra area has risen by approximately 12 per cent in the last 12 months. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister in answer to Question No. 97 on page 625 of Hansard dated 24 July, 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Details of street lighting expenditures by local government authorities in metropolitan Sydney during the last twelve months are not available. However the Australian Bureau of Statistics advises that expenditure from revenue (ordinary services) on street lighting by municipalities and shires in the Sydney Statistical Division during the calendar years 1971 and 1972 was $5,258,000 and $5,387,000 respectively. 
These expenditures represent charges to municipalities and shires by the five county councils which are responsible for electricity distribution in the Sydney Statistical Division (Sydney, St George, Prospect, Mackellar, Nepean River). 
All capital works relating to provision of street lighting in the Sydney Statistical Division are the responsibility of these five County Councils. The Australian Bureau of Statistics advises that separate details of these expenditures are not available. 
and (3) The information sought is not available in my Department. If the right honourable member wishes it, I will arrange for the five Sydney metropolitan area County Councils to be contacted to see if they can assist him with his inquiry. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is not available for the years since 1971. I draw the right honourable member's attention to the publication of the Australian Bureau of Statistics entitled- 'Census of Population and Housing 1971, Bulletin 7, Characteristics of Population and Dwellings in Local ' Government Areas, Parts 1-9, (reference no. 2.89)' 
Copies of computer tabulations of this data have been deposited in the Parliamentary Library by my Department. 
The information requested is not available for the current year. The Australian Statistician has advised that the information sought is not available for smaller population centres. The information for Capital City Statistical Divisions and the balance for each state is contained in the 1 97 1 computer tabulations which have been referred to in (a) above. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
Yes. The details are contained in the 'Report on the Effects of Stopping Freeway Construction in State Capital Cities 1973' which I commissioned of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads last year. 
Yes. A list of freeway proposals is contained in the report referred to, and further details are in the report 'Assessment of Freeway Plans, State Capital Cities 1974' which the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads presented to me this year. 
Yes, the joint transport studies inter-departmental committee on inter and intra regional freight and passenger flows. 
The inter-departmental committee has no special terms of reference relating to freeways, and has no set timetable. It consists of the Departments of Transport, Urban and Regional Development, Manufacturing Industry, Treasury, Environment and Conservation, and Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a confidential letter to me of 31 January 1974 the  Chairman  of the Committee of Inquiry on the National Estate dealt essentially with various means which could be adopted to preserve the Camden Park Estate in its present form and usage. The question as to whether the Estates should be preserved was well covered in a statement made by the New South Wales Minister for Local Government,  Sir Charles  Cutler, in January 1973 when he said that: 'The conservation of these Estates in their present form is regarded by Government as an objective of State and national importance ... In the event that circumstances in the future might make it difficult for the Estates to continue in their present ownership, the Government would wish to consider measures to ensure that this outstanding national asset is preserved in the public interest'. (Section 1S.33, page 84 of the publication entitled 'The New Cities of Campbelltown, Camden, Appin- A Structure Plan' published by the State Planning Authority of New South Wales. 
and (3) See the answer to 1 above. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister in answer to Question No. 329 on pages 626/627 of Hansard dated 24 July 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
No. 
Following mention in the Coombs Report the future of Essendon Airport is being investigated by a working committee chaired by the Department of Transport and also comprising representatives of Treasury and DURD, to see whether the airport site should be turned over to other urban uses. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I shall determine when a need has arisen in the light of circumstances. 
The main criterion is the aim of the Australian Government to rectify the social inequalities and inefficiencies that exist in the urban areas of Australia. 
I refer the right honourable member to the paper published by the Department of Urban and Regional Development in May titled 'A programme for Urban and Regional Development- An Interim Statement'. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
This task force was established by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies. The Australian Government contributed $50,000 to the operation of the Institute in the last financial year. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Adjustment of boundaries of local government areas, including amalgamation of local government bodies, is a matter for the respective State governments.  Major enquiries  into local government boundaries are undertaken from time to time and these may or may not lead to recommendations for or implementation of amalgamations on a relatively large scale. 
Details of amalgamations are not held by my Department but the right honourable member could obtain them from the responsible Department in each State. 
, (3) and (4) See (1) above. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The costs involved in providing services are an important component in the end price of residential land. In line with the Government's policy of reducing the price of land my Department is attempting to establish the extent of the costs involved in all stages of the land conversion process. 
The collection of data in this area is complex and time consuming in that a number of authorities, both municipal and State, are involved in different stages of the land conversion process, and because different standards of development are often required even within the one city area. This means that statistics which imply an average cost of servicing have to be extremely closely defined. 
There has until now been no real attempt to collect precisely defined data on a continuing basis covering all aspects of land servicing. My department is currently involved in establishing a framework for such a collection and is approaching bodies within all tiers of government and the private sector which are likely to yield information. 
The following figures have been received from a variety of sources and are of an extremely general nature, and care should be exercised in their application. The figures indicate the order of costs involved in providing roads, drainage, sewer and water reticulation, engineering design and survey, site preparation, and legal costs and registration fees in Australia's major urban areas. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is not at present available in the form requested. It has been sought from the State Authorities and will be given to the right honourable member when it is available. 
See (1) above. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is not at present available in the form requested. It has been sought from the State Authorities and will be given to the right honourable member when it is available. 
Let me answer first the question about differences between Ministers. No, there are no differences between Ministers.  Mr Daly  and I are united in relation to the development of the Parramatta site for a Commonwealth centre. 
We have to examine the reasons why the Australian Government decided to acquire the site at Parramatta. The policy of the previous Government was to build on a site at Wooloomooloo. This would have over-centralised the area of Sydney by putting a further 15,000 Commonwealth public servants there. It would have created further chaos because of the overcentralisation of Sydney. The Whitlam Government has set about developing Sydney in a rational way by decentralising office accommodation for Commonwealth public servants. Approximately 5,000 Commonwealth public servants will be located in Parramatta. That centre will be developed on a multi-purpose basis with retail and cultural facilities as well. 
The plans are under way. We are working on them now. When the Government is ready to make its plans clear it will give full details to the people. But it has taken time to draw up these plans. As far as we are concerned this is only one step in providing offices for public servants out of the central business district of Sydney. Other plans are being drawn up for the Liverpool, Campbelltown and Holsworthy area. For the benefit of the honourable member I say that this is being done in complete co-operation with the New South Wales Government through the State Planning Authority, as it was then, and now the Department of Environment and Planning. We are also working in co-operation with the Hamer Government in Victoria to provide Public Service office space out of the central business district of Melbourne, firstly at Ringwood. We are making further studies of other corridors in Melbourne. 

 - Mr Speaker, I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a short and uncomplicated Bill which sets out to do three things. One, it provides that as Minister for Urban and Regional Development, I may, in consultation with a State Minister, approve programs of urban and regional development for that State. Two, it provides that the Australian Government may agree with a State government upon the financial assistance to be provided for expenditure by the State or an approved body in the State for approved programs. Three, it provides that all agreements made with the States under this legislation be tabled before Parliament. Although this is a simple and concise 
Bill, it will have a momentous impact upon the day to day lives of the people of Australia. For the first time it sets the seal on the concept and function of co-operative federalism in Australia. It allows the Australian and State Governments to get together in co-operative measures to improve the quality of life in Australian cities. 
For far too long laissez-faire attitudes have dominated the thinking of Australian governments in the area of urban and regional development. The great merit of this Bill is that for the first time the resources of Australia are marshalled to provide national strategies and national programs. It is the first attempt by an Australian Government to recognise the national character of the problems of the cities. In particular it allows the Australian Government to join State and local authorities in planning and implementing programs with a broad national perspective. 
-I thank the House. I shall now deal with the national estate 
I wish to reply briefly to the remarks of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  He started out by being critical of the Government's action to assist local government bodies, but he mellowed towards the end of his speech. The Bill provides the Grants Commission with $56.3m for allocation to local governing bodies by way of grant. Such grants will be interest free and nonrepayable. The honourable member for Paterson went on to criticise the fact that Commonwealth Aid Roads moneys were being cut back. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  today clearly stated that the amount of money made available under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement this year was 30 per cent greater than that provided during the last 3 years of administration of the previous Government. He pointed out also that if there was any cutting back of Commonwealth Aid Roads moneys this was being done by the respective State governments which were responsible for its allocation. 
Let us just briefly examine the real debt burden of local government bodies under the administration of the previous Government of which the honourable member for Paterson was a supporter. The whole debt burden of the Commonwealth government during the 23 years of reign of the previous Government remained static. The debts of the States increased sevenfold. The debt burden of local government bodies increased by some 2,000 per cent, and in the case of semi-government authorities it increased by 2,800 per cent. That is the record of the previous Government. We know that local government authorities are in a difficult financial situation. What is proposed under this Bill is one of the first steps that we propose to take. It is only one step of the many that we are taking to try to assist local government bodies. Might I say that the region which the honourable member for Paterson represents received a total of $2,719,000. For instance, the Maitland City Council, which is in the area that the honourable member represents, received $228,000. The Muswellbrook City Council received $70,000; the Scone Shire Council received $62,000; and the Singleton Municipal Council received $60,000. All of these moneys were made available from the Australian Government to the respective councils by way of non-repayable grant. It is this type of positive action taken by the Whitlam Labor Government which has been of assistance to these bodies. 
During my contribution I shall make further references to other areas in which we are trying to assist local government authorities. I welcome this Bill introduced by my colleague, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  For the first time the Australian Government is to make assistance directly available to shires and councils. The Bill provides a total of $56,345,000 to local government bodies in accordance with the recommendation of the Grants Commission. Honourable members will recall the pledge made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during the debate in June last year on the Grants Commission Bill. The Prime Minister said: 
The Government is determined to make the third tier of government a genuine partner in the system and to give local government adequate access to the nation 's finance. 
We have honoured this commitment with the changes we have made in the functions of the Grants Commission. Grants are now flowing from these changes. The grants to individual local government bodies were announced by the Special Minister of State,  Mr Lionel  Bowen, and me in August. Since the announcement we have been gratified by the generally favourable response to these grants. Wherever I have travelled in Australia in recent weeks I have found that local government is thankful for the assistance given. There have been some knockers and there has been some ill-informed criticism, but for the most part the response has been heartening to the Government. 
It would be impossible to pioneer a new system of assistance to local government without some defects occurring. The application of principles of fiscal equality to about 900 local government bodies is a tremendous task. Undoubtedly there are anomalies in the list of grants; there may have been injustices. It would be impossible to introduce such a sweeping scheme without a few rough edges showing in its first year. If there are cases where it can be shown that the principles have been unfairly applied or there has been a lack of consistency we will certainly have a look at them. I should point out that my Department is entitled to go in and support the application of any local government authority before the Grants Commission if there is any injustice. So far no example of unfairness has been brought to my attention. Some of the State branches of the Opposition Parties, in particular the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party of Australia, have had a very close look at the grants and have been unable to uncover any bias or unfairness. There are always complaints about political bias in the application of any broad scheme which brings benefits across the board. There is no doubt in my mind that these grants have been based on a fair and impartial assessment by the Grants Commission. I stress that these grants are completely free of strings. Each local government body is completely free to decide how it will fit its grant into individual spending programs. 
Another important point about the grants is the high level of assistance given to rural areas. On a per capita basis the shires and councils in non-metropolitan areas have done better than their urban counterparts. If we were to break down these figures for the whole of Australia we would find that the grants went to metropolitan local government bodies on the basis of $2.92 a head and to non-metropolitan bodies at $6.88 a head. If we were to break down the figures on a State by State basis we would get these results: New South Wales- metropolitan $2.87 a head and rural $7.28 a head; Victoria- Metropolitan $2.96 a head and rural $7.13 a head; Queensland- metropolitan $3.12 a head and rural $6.23 a head; South Australia- metropolitan $3.02 a head and rural $6.36 a head; Western Australia- metropolitan $2.92 a head and rural $8.85 a head; and Tasmania- metropolitan $2.04 a head and rural $5.16 a head. I hope that those figures give the lie once and for all to the claims that the Government's programs discriminate against the rural areas. The rural areas do as well as or better than the urban areas in the programs of the Australian Government. 
I would like to look in a little detail at one of the important principles which is embodied in the Government's approach to providing assistance to local government, that is, the use of regions in the context of Australian federal government. The subject of regions has aroused considerable public interest and debate in the past few months. The focus of the sort of examination is the development of a system of regions so that the Grants Commission can work effectively in assisting local government. It is a fact that attitudes to regionalism are much more strongly developed in some parts of Australia than in others. Bringing local government bodies together in broader groupings is essential if the rather clumsy structure of federalism in this country is to be made to work. The Australian Government is developing new programs which get right down to the day-to-day working of local government. This is a great step forward in the working of Australian government, but it brings many problems. An obvious difficulty is coordinating the administration of programs involving the Australian Government, the State governments and some 900 local government bodies. 
Finding the tools to get this structure to work has been one of the important tasks of the Government in urban and regional development. For this reason we have sought to revive the concept of regionalism to link the shires and councils in a number of loosely based groups. This sort of association is designed to bring together councils which have some common identity. With this aim in mind we defined 68 regions for the purposes of Grants Commission assistance to local government. The Grants Commission was given 3 choices in applying the principles of fiscal equality to local government: It could use comparisons between regions; it could use comparisons between individual local government bodies; it could use comparisons of regions with other regions or with individual local government bodies. 
The Commission decided to base its work on comparing individual local government bodies. That meant the exacting task of looking in detail at more than 800 shires and councils. The reasons for that choice are set out in the Grants Commission's report on financial assistance to local government. Those reasons are sound enough and I do not dispute the course adopted by the Commission. At this early stage it would not be wise to base a strong case for assistance to local government on the regions. But it is encouraging to note that 2 States- Tasmania and South Australia- were prepared to put their applications on a regional basis. As the regional concept is developed it should be possible to shift the whole basis of assistance to local government onto the regions. I know that this will take time to evolve, but it is not the Government's intention to push too hard. We want it to evolve at a local government level and we want the local government bodies to put their applications on a regional basis. We want to bring the regional concept along gradually and to blend it into the process of transmitting Australian Government money to local government bodies by way of regional organisations. For that reason, the 1974-75 Budget makes special provision for grants to regional organisations set up for Grants Commission purposes. 
The regional organisation assistance program has 2 aims. We want to encourage local government to tackle regional problems in co-operation by setting up regional organisations. We want these regional organisations to be active in assessing the needs of their regions and in making submissions on their behalf. The annual application to the Grants Commission is the most important of these submissions. There are other 
Australian government programs where an approach on a regional basis would greatly assist the flow of assistance. The whole concept of regional organisations must remain an empty shell if the organisations lack the resources to service their needs. To fill this need we will provide 2 levels of assistance under the program. All regional organisations will qualify for $2,000 to assist them to meet such basic out-of-pocket expenses as travelling and secretarial expenses. Grants up to $8,000 per region may be paid to organisations which spend money on other approved regional purposes. This will assist with costs, such as for the preparation of regional studies and the holding of regional conferences. Not all of the regions will be eligible for this second grant immediately, but we expect that within 3 years most regions will have developed sufficiently to claim it. This represents a modest start to building up the sort of machinery that will be needed to service these regional organisations. Beyond this, we look to the day when there will be a much greater concentration of the resources of local governments on a regional basis. 
One of the great flaws of local government at the moment is lack of resources to provide the expertise that is necessary in an increasingly complex era of technology. The single unit of local government has not the resources to employ the engineers, the managers, the environmentalists and the planners. It is so much easier to provide these essential people if the resources of local government are pooled on a regional basis. It is also much easier for government- I include the State governments here- to channel its assistance to local regional organisations. Local government must realise that we live in an environmental age and that it will have to adjust to meet new challenges and demands. 
I referred earlier to the scope of the Australian Government's programs which impinge directly on local government. This involvement has been extended greatly by the measures contained in the Budget. I refer honourable members to Budget Paper No. 7 on payments to or for the State and local government authorities for 1974-75. Table 86, at page 134, gives a broad indication of the range and possible size of the Australian Government payments to or for local government authorities this financial year. This gives an estimate of $96.9m for Australian Government programs this financial year. If we take out $56.3m for the Grants Commission program and $2m for the Northern Territory we get a total of $38m for specific purpose assistance to local government. It should be stressed that this is not a total figure as estimates are not available for some important programs. Allowing for this shortfall, there is no doubt of the scope and generosity of the assistance we are giving to local government programs. 
We have extended the national sewerage program to cover cities with a population of between 20,000 and 60,000 people. We have extended the area improvement program from 2 regions this year to 13 regions. Local government will also receive substantial assistance from the urban local roads program which allocates $30m in grants over the next 3 years. A substantial part of this money will go to local government. For the first time direct assistance will be given for upgrading the quality of residential streets. These programs derive from the work of my Department. There are many other Australian Government programs linked to the day to day work of local government. My colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  has devised a number of fine programs to give better amenities for recreation in towns and suburbs. The Australian Assistance Plan, directed by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  will gather greater momentum in the months ahead. It will link all levels of government with local communities in the provision of a greater range of welfare services. Under the scheme the Australian Government is giving the money and the back-up for programs which local communities can identify and fulfil. 
These two examples could be multiplied. At the moment there are 34 programs administered by 13 Australian Government departments and 5 Australian Government authorities. More programs are being added all the time. The Government will continue to extend these programs. These programs have teething problems and there needs to be a role of co-ordination. It will be the task of the Department of Urban and Regional Development to iron out these problems and ensure that all programs of assistance to local government are co-ordinated in a proper way. The Australian Government aims to give local government the money and the tools to fill its proper role in the federal structure. The assistance given by the Grants Commission represents a great stride forward in achieving this aim. This grant of $56.3m in the first year is interest free and non-repayable. I support the Bill. 
-Liberal Party and Country Party Opposition members have been accusing the Grants Commission of favouritism to city areas. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party interjects and says: 'That is right'. Let us examine the evidence. It shows that for the first time the Australian Government, through the Grants Commission, made an allocation of $56.3m for assistance to local government. This money was given throughout Australia on a per head of population basis. In the city areas $2.92 per head of population was granted and in the non-metropolitan areas, or rural areas the Commonwealth Government gave $6.88 per head of population. An amount of $9m was made available to Queensland through the Grants Commission. That money was granted on the basis of $3.12 per head of population in the cities and $6.23 per head of population in rural areas. 
These grants represent only a part of the overall policy of the Australian Government in assisting local governments as a whole. For instance, my colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation is making money available to local governments for recreational purposes. The Minister for Social Security, through the Social Welfare Commission and the Australian Assistance Plan, also is assisting local government. The Australian Council for the Arts, which comes under the control of the Prime Minister, is making grants available to local government, as is the Department of Transport under the roads program. For the first time we are making available to local government money for urban local roads. In the next 3 years $30m will be made available for this purpose. 
I emphasise that in Queensland where local government had been faring badly with its finances, for the first time an Australian Government has been making available money and also is giving an opportunity to the Queensland Government to assist 2 area improvement programs for the Moreton region, and the Fitzroy Basin region, which takes in the Gladstone and Rockhampton areas. Both were badly treated by the previous Government. 
The Queensland Government has entered into the national sewerage program to catch up on the backlog of sewerage in our urban areas, to improve environmental standards and to construct new headworks in our cities. In the first year Queensland received approximately $4. 5m. That year the money was made available on the long term Commonwealth bond rate, repayable over 40 years. This year Queensland will receive $ 11.3m for the backlog sewerage program. Australian Government officials have offered the following program of expenditure: Brisbane City Council $3.6m; Redland $1.2m; Ipswich $340,000; Pine Rivers $710,000; Albert Shire $530,000; Beaudesert $560,000; the Gold Coast, which because of the previous Government is more than 80 per cent unsewered $770,000; Moreton Shire $1,070,000; Caboolture $310,000; Townsville $370,000; Cairns $950,000; Mackay $330,000; Rockhampton $80,000; Maryborough $10,000; Bundaberg $270,000; Mount Isa $100,000 and Toowoomba $70,000. A further $15m has been made available for all States to meet extra expenditure, but its allocation has not been determined yet. 
Thirty per cent of the $1 1.3m will be made available to Queensland this year in the form of an interest free non-repayable grant and the other 70 per cent will be a loan on the long term Commonwealth bond rate repayable over 40 years. This program is being carried out under the pledge of the Prime Minister given prior to December 1972. The present Government inherited the urban problem of sewering of our cities. On present day prices this will cost $3,800m. We estimate that within the next 10 years the work carried out by the national Government will clear the backlog. About 40 per cent of it will be paid for by the Australian Government and about 60 per cent by the States. 
-The Palace Hotel in Perth was acquired by the Commonwealth Bank in late 1971. It was then the Bank's intention to demolish it and to erect a commercial building in its place. Under the then Government's policy of what is called the bulldozer mentality, many unique and beautiful things were demolished for what it called progress. The Whitlam Labor Government set up an inquiry under  Mr Justice  Hope of the New South Wales Supreme Court to inquire into the national estate. It is our Government 's policy to try to preserve for posterity things created by man or by nature that are unique and beautiful. The Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate said that the Palace Hotel was an important element of the national estate and should be preserved and not demolished, defaced or destroyed. 
It is an important matter for the people of Australia generally. I know that the Leader of the Opposition, who has just interjected, is concerned only about elections, but we at least want to try to preserve this part of our heritage. The Commonwealth Bank is a government agency and we have been corresponding with it to convey that our policy is that the Australian Government should set an example. In the first year we made $2.5m available to try to preserve the national estate. This year $8m has been made available through my Department and some $9m has been made available through the Department of the Environment and Conservation to try to preserve the national estate. The Government will do everything within its power to preserve the Palace Hotel in Perth and it will seek the co-operation of the Commonwealth Bank. If we cannot get the co-operation of the Bank we may have to take other action. 
in reply- This umbrella Bill is an historic piece of legislation because it brings together programs in the field of urban and regional development. I have said on many occasions that activities in the field of urban and regional development are interconnected.. Like environmental aspects, everything is connected to everything else. People have been living in isolation for too long. For instance, even Federal departments do not always correlate with each other, just as the States do not coordinate with local government and even the private sector. The new, young crusaders, if one wants to put it that way, the young men who came into my Department to work with and to advise me want to change the life style of the cities. This is the relationship we have, and of course their objective is a great concept in itself. Our policies will help to make this concept a reality. We are trying to work in a co-operative spirit. It is my view that in the long term the only way in which one can solve problems is for local government, the States and the Australian Government to work together. 
I challenge the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  the Opposition spokesman on urban and regional development, to cite any specific instance in which I, as the Australian Government representative, have ridden roughshod over any State Minister. I am sure that he will find that we have worked in a co-operative spirit. We did not think that the terms and conditions relating to last year's sewerage program were good enough. At that time I said that I would go back and try and get the States a better deal. The terms decided on last year provided for money to be made available at the long term Commonwealth bond rate to be repayable over 40 years. These were the best financial terms ever given. This year there are better financial conditions. This year we have been able to achieve an arrangement whereby 30 per cent of the money is made available by way of interest free non-repayable grants and the remaining 70 per cent is made available at the long term Commonwealth bond rate. That is just an example of what we have done. We will strive to arrange better financial agreements in other fields. 
I accept the attitude that the only way problems can be solved is in a co-ordinated manner. Problems will not just be solved by passing over cheques. The States have made too many mistakes in the past, as has the Federal Government. We want to sit down and plan and work together with the States. If people- whether they be at local government or State government levelreject that I believe that they should start looking at their own attitudes and stop criticising those of the Australian Government. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  said that I am a centralist. I am not a centralist. It would be wrong to say that I do not want to extend the powers of the Australian Parliament. I support the extension of powers to the Australian Parliament in such matters as the petroleum submerged lands legislation and the environment which are so important nationally and internationally and which are interconnected in the world in which we live. So on those broad bases I support the extension of powers to this Parliament. I am proud to be a socialist. As far as I am concerned I am committed to a policy of power to the people. I want to give power back to the people. I do not want to centralise power here in Canberra. It is only when one meets people at the grass roots that one really gets some understanding. Although the honourable member for Parramatta seems to show little understanding, I point out that the area improvement program is part and parcel of the attitude which I have just expressed because we seek from the people what they want. All the area improvement programs that we have brought forward have stemmed from the people at the grass roots level. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  who is the spokesman for the Opposition on this matter said that I had been tough with the States; that I had put a hard hand down and that there was no real spirit of co-operation between the Federal and State governments. I want to intimate that in the short term that the Federal Government has been working with the State governments many agreements have been worked out. Such agreements can only be worked out by co-operation. We have an agreement with the States on financial assistance for national sewerage works. Every State has agreed to work on the basis of that agreement. I might say that in respect of sewerage we inherited an awful mess from the previous Government. We inherited a situation in the city of Perth in which half of the city was unsewered. This is in the 1970s. Every one in six people living in Sydney and Melbourne were living in unsewered homes when we came to office. The real cost- on present day costs- of catching up with the sewerage backlog is about $3,800m. It will take approximately 10 years to wipe out that backlog. The real reason relates to the pressures on resourcesmen and materials. 
The Federal Government has agreements with the States on financial assistance for the national estate. What was happening to our national estate before we came to office? It was being destroyed by the bulldozer mentality of the former Government. But a new government, with new thoughts, is doing something about it. We are working with the State governments in a spirit of co-operation. Further, we have an agreement with the New South Wales and Victorian governments on the development of AlburyWodonga. This will be the first major growth centre in Australia's history. We have an agreement with South Australia on the development of Monarto. We have an agreement with the Victorian Government on the establishment of an urban land council. We have an agreement with South Australia on the establishment of a State lands commission. We have an agreement with New South Wales and Victoria on area improvement programs. We have an agreement with Victoria on Emerald Hill. What would have happened to Emerald Hill had we not been the 
Government? Because of the positive action taken by an Australian Government which said: 'Let us work in co-operation with the State Government of Victoria and the South Melbourne City Council to save Emerald Hill', Emerald Hill was saved. There is now a rehabilitation of that old townscape which is well over 100 years old. 
We have an agreement with the Victorian Government on the south-eastern sector of Melbourne. What does the south-eastern sector of Melbourne mean? It means the Mornington Peninsula which was being raped by the developers; it means the Dandenongs which, again, were being raped. Again, we indicated that we would work with the Victorian Government to preserve these areas. We have an agreement, in principle, with the Victorian Government to develop a new growth area in Geelong. We have a joint steering committee for the redevelopment of Woolloomooloo. These agreements are just the beginning of the actions taken by this Government. The only way we can achieve such programs is by a spirit of co-operation. 
I should like briefly to answer the points raised by the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  in relation to financial arrangements. The honourable member for Indi complained that the Government should do something about the debt situation in Albury-Wodonga. The backlog of the municipal services in that city was basically the responsibility of the State governments of Victoria and New South Wales. They allowed them to get into a deplorable state. One can certainly pass the buck from those State governments back to the previous Federal Government because during the 23 years in which the Opposition was in government the internal debt- the servicing debt- of this nation remained approximately the same. The debt of the States increased about sevenfold; the debt of local government increased 2,000 per cent; and the debts of semi-government authorities increased 2,800 per cent. Of course, Albury-Wodonga is a part of that local government debt structure. This Government has tried to prepare AlburyWodonga as a growth centre by making moneys available. 
The honourable member for Indi said that the Government is making loan money and not grant money available. In the first year we made available $800,000 to the Wodonga Shire and a little more than $lm to the Albury Shire. Onethird of the money made available was grant money- interest free and non-repayable- and two-thirds was loan money on a long-term bond rate repayable over 30 years. In relation to the money made available for land acquisition in the development area the financial terms arranged were that repayments of principal would be deferred for  10  years and then would be paid during the last  20  years of the loan. In relation to the acquisition of land some of the money made available will be grant moneys on the basis of  $2  from the Australian Government for  $1  from the State governments. 
It has been agreed that we should finish this debate at a certain time. I do not want to keep the . House much longer. There has been, generally, acceptance of this Bill by honourable members. The spokesman for the Opposition on this matter indicated in his second reading speech that the Opposition intended to move an amendment to this Bill in the Senate. If that amendment were made in the Senate the Bill would have to be returned to this House before we had the authority to pay this money to the States. The States are waiting for the money. If the honourable member for Boothby wishes to move an amendment during the Committee stage of the debate in a spirit of co-operation I will accept it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses  1  to  6-  by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause  7  (Supply of information). 
I have intimated that I will accept the deletion of this clause from the Bill. I have indicated to the Opposition that in the agreements with the States similar terms will be in the agreement. I accept the deletion of this clause. 
The remarks made by the honourable member for Parramatta on 13 November 1974 do not reflect the true position in any way. At a public hearing of the Public Works Committee in 1972 all Labor members of that Committee argued against a building for public servants being erected on a site at Woolloomooloo. On the evidence put forward by advisers to me while 1 was in Opposition we were able to persuade one Government member of the Committee to vote with the Opposition members at the time against the Commonwealth centre being sited at Woolloomooloo. For several years I had been agitating to have Commonwealth centres located at such places as Parramatta and Liverpool in Sydney and similar decentralised localities in Melbourne. Following the decision of the Public Works Committee, in desperation the then honourable member for Parramatta made representations to try to get a regional centre sited in Parramatta. The then Minister for the Interior in October 1972 placed a submission before Cabinet. The recommendation was not accepted. 
In April 1973 the Australian Government acquired the Meggitt's site at Parramatta. We also acquired the petrol station on the northwestern corner of that site. My colleague, the Minister for Services and Property, is negotiating with the Parramatta City Council for the acquisition of a baby health centre which will be incorporated into the site. The Government has also decided to acquire a right of way access from Marsden Street to integrate the development of the Australian Government site with the proposed development of Murray Brothers (Parramatta) Pty Ltd, which also faces Marsden Street. That property extends through the proposed mall in Church Street, Parramatta. Not only has a decision been made but also the Minister for Services and Property and I have recommended that 2,500 Australian Government public servants be located in the first phase of the building on this site. The ultimate development will provide for between 4,500 to 5,500 people to be located at the site. There will be, unlike- 
The Cities Commission report which was tabled in this Parliament early in 1 973 nominated Wyong-Gosford as a future growth area. It recommended that a development corporation should be set up between the Australian Government and State authorities to develop that area. Regrettably, to date little progess has been made with the New South Wales Government in regard to this development corporation. I might say that the area of Wyong-Gosford certainly fared very favourably in its grants from the Australian Government through the Grants Commission. It is now receiving money from the Australian Government under the national sewerage program. For the first time money will be paid through the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement for local urban roads. My colleague, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  has made many grants in that area for improvement of recreational facilities. 
It is my view and the Government's view that a development corporation should be set up with the State Government to develop this region because it is a very sensitive environmental area. The lake areas particularly have been exploited. There has been a great deal of destruction in the sensitive rain forest areas. It is my view that the creation of a development corporation in that area needs the financial backing of the Australian Government and the New South Wales Government, but it can be done only if the New South Wales Government seeks it. We have made a great deal of progress in the CampbelltownHolsworthy corridor which was also nominated, but to date little progress has been made in regard to the Wyong-Gosford area. It is not the fault of the Australian Government. We are prepared to work with the New South Wales Government in setting up a development corporation in this area. 
For the information of honourable members I present an urban paper prepared by  Mr Peter  Le Breton entitled 'Poverty'. Due to the limited numbers available, arrangements have been made to have reference copies of the paper placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
-(R.cid-Minister for Urban and Regional Development)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. Firstly, the suggestion that there were differences between  Mr Daly  and myself is completely untrue. In fact there was an agreement as a result of which land was acquired with access to Marsden Street to permit access to Murray Brothers (Parramatta) Pty Ltd. This was the only request made by me at any time- if that land were acquired there would be interconnection between the shopping area and the proposed development of Murray Brothers. There has been much rambling going on for considerable time by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  about who could claim credit for the proposal to develop Meg.gitt's site in Parramatta. I nailed the lie- if I may use that word- in my statement in the Parliament yesterday when I said that there was agitation after the Woolloomooloo site was rejected. For 2 years prior to that I had been suggesting that the Commonwealth centre should be located at Parramatta and not Woolloomooloo. 
Agitation subsequently was made by the former member for Parramatta, out of desperation and pressure built up by my agitation. The then Government considered the matter. A Cabinet submission was made by the then Minister for the Interior in October 1972 but the Cabinet rejected that proposal. Therefore it was not the Government of that day that acquired the land; it was the present Labor Government. It was as a result of joint ministerial decision by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and myself that the Meggitt site was acquired. The Department of Services and Property is negotiating to determine whether the baby health centre can be incorporated in the development. We have acquired further land in the north-west corner of the site where at present a petrol station is located. We have also acquired a right of way to integrate the development of the Australian Government site with the proposed development of Murray Brothers. These are the facts. All along I and the Minister for Services and Property personally- I stress the word 'personally'have wanted to integrate the Commonwealth development with other future development in Parramatta, not to isolate it. 
I move: 
That Senate Amendment No. 1 be amended by omitting all words from and including 'in a westerly direction' and substituting the following words: 'in a straight line, being an extension of Kings Avenue, to its intersection with Capital Circle and thence clockwise around Capital Circle to a point where it intersects with a straight line extending Commonwealth Avenue from the point marked A and thence along that line to the point of commencement, being the area delineated by hatching on the plan set out in the Schedule '. 
The Committee will recall that this Bill was introduced by my colleague, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and was amended by this chamber. Subsequently, the Senate accepted further amendments from  Senator Withers  which largely implemented the ideas of  Senator Wright  who has been overseas. The Senate amendments have been considered by several members and senators representative of both Houses and all parties. It has been agreed between these representatives, one of whom was  Senator Withers,  that there should be further amendments to make the Bill more workable. 
I think that the concept sought by the amendment which I moved originally did not take in the Treasury buildings or the administration block which is called East Block. It was just a small block. Might I say with respect to the amendment which has been moved by the Senate and which this Committee has now accepted- this discussion should have been raised on the first amendment and not on this amendment- that the amendment does in fact take this aspect into account. I understand from the National Capital Development Commission that there would be no administrative difficulties that could not be overcome in respect of the amendments that I have moved. 
I know that the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  has taken a great interest in the discussion as to the location of the New and Permanent Parliament House. This amendment does take the point raised by the honourable member into account. Nothing can be done without the permission of Parliament in relation to that area. The amendment is clear in that respect. 
Amendment to the amendment agreed to. 
Senate amendment No. 2, as amended, agreed to. 
Motion (by  Mr Uren)  agreed to: 
That Senate amendment No. 3 be agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The establishment of my Department's Information Service has been settled at 17 positions. Eight of these positions have been staffed and recruitment to the balance is well advanced. 
There are no plans to increase the establishment in the forseeable future. 
3 ) The functions of the various positions are: 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
In 1973-74 the Government provided a total allocation of $325,000 to the Western Australian Government and to a number of voluntary organisations for assistance with the acquisition and restoration of land and buildings and for the conduct of studies associated with the National Estate. In addition, a sum of $40,000 was granted to three voluntary bodies; the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia), ($20,000); the Conservation Council of Western Australia ($15,000); and Environment 2000, ($5,000) for assistance with administrative expenses. 
In all cases the assistance was in the nature of interest free, non-repayable grants. Details of the $325,000 grant are as follows: 
Project 1: Allocation to the Western Australian Government for assistance with acquisition of land in the South West Coast area near Cape Naturaliste for the purpose of developing a coastal park. Details of acquisitions to be provided to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
GRANT: $1 10,000 (One hundred and ten thousand dollars) 
Project 2: Allocation to the York Council for planning and landscape studies subject to the appointment of consultants approved by the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. A copy of the report to be provided to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development on completion of the study. 
GRANT: $ 10,000 (Ten thousand dollars) 
Project 3: Allocation to the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) for acquisition of land required for landscaped park, incorporating car parking and tourist reception areas. The land acquired to be transferred to the York Shire Council at the appropriate stage of development of the project subject to the Council entering into a Covenant with the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) with regard to future use and management. 
GRANT: $10,000 (Ten thousand dollars) 
Project 4: Allocation to the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) for acquisition of land and buildings including part of Balladong Farm. The latter is to be later transferred to York Shire Council or the Western Australian Museum subject to the transferee entering into a Covenant with the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) with regard to future use and management. 
GRANT: $25,000 (Twenty-five thousand dollars) 
Project 5: Cossack- Allocation to the Western Australian Government to secure a historic building complex against damage by vandalism and for urgent restoration work essential to arrest dilapidation; the works to be carried out in consultation with the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia). 
GRANT: $25,000 (Twenty-five thousand dollars) 
Project 6: Allocation to the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) for urgent initial restoration work on its freehold property ' Blytheswood ' at Pinjarra. 
GRANT: $20,000 (Twenty thousand dollars) 
Project 7: Allocation to National Trust of Australia ( Western Australia) for urgent work on a portion  of its  freehold property 'Blechynden' at Bridgetown to secure it against damage by vandalism. 
GRANT: $5,000 (Five thousand dollars) 
Project 8: Allocation to Greenough Shire Council for planning, architectural, landscaping studies and other consultancy work subject to the appointment of consultants being approved by the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
GRANT: $5,000 (Five thousand dollars) 
Project 9: Allocation to the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) for acquisition of land and buildings and urgent restoration work to selected buildings in Greenough in consultation with Greenough Shire Council. 
GRANT: $25,000 (Twenty-five thousand dollars) 
Project 10: Allocation to the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) for urgent restoration work, including weatherproofing, of three freehold properties: Mangowine Inn and the Old Gaol at Nungarin and the Wyening Winery at Calingiri owned by the National Trust of Australia ( Western Australia). 
GRANT: $7,000 (Seven thousand dollars) 
Project 1 1: Allocation to the Esperance Bay Historical Society to restore iron roofing and walls of a former railway goods shed with unique architectural features for establishment of a local historical museum. It is required that the work be carried out in consultation with the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia). 
GRANT: $3,000 (Three thousand dollars) 
Project 12: Allocation to Toodyay Shire Council for urgent restoration of buildings to arrest dilapidation; the buildings to be selected and work carried out in consultation with the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia). It is required that property owners enter into a covenant with the National Trust of Australia (Western Australia) with regard to future use and management. 
GRANT: $5,000 (Five thousand dollars) 
Project 13: Grant to the City of Fremantle for assistance with further studies of the historic buildings and future development in the city centre with a view to preparing a suitable town development plan and drawing up recommendations on appropriate legislative amendments and criteria. It is required that such studies be carried out in consultation with the Cities Commission. A copy of the report on such studies to be provided to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
GRANT: $30,000 (Thirty thousand dollars) 
Project 14: Allocation to the Western Australian Government for assistance with the clearing of estuarine weed growth from Peel Inlet and the conduct of studies of the eutrophication of Peel Inlet and other estuarine areas. 
GRANT: $40,000 (Forty thousand dollars) 
Project 15: Allocation to the Western Australian Government for assistance with terracing, the provision of pathways and general measures for the protection and preservation of the historic site ' Cliff Head ' on Garden Island. 
GRANT: $5,000 (Five thousand dollars) 
Of the total amount granted under this program a sum of $47,087.83 had been spent by 30 June 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Mandurah Emergency Water Rescue Organisation's request for assistance to purchase equipment was referred to my Department by the Department of Social Security as one of a group of proposals which it was thought might qualify under the Area Improvement Program currently proposed for the South Penh Region (Region 12) of which Mandurah is a pan. 
The project is not appropriate for funding under an Area Improvement Program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Social Security has referred a request for assistance from the Kojonup Apex Club for $2,000 to improve and upgrade the local park. At present, my Department has no program of assistance under which this request might be considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At present my Department has no program of assistance under which the Dumbleyung Community Committee project might be considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the 1974-73 Budget a sum of $750,000 has been set aside for a proposed Area Improvement Program in the South Perth Region (Region 12) comprising the following local government areas: Mandurah, Kwinana, Rockingham, Fremantle, East Fremantle, Cockburn, Melville, South Perth, Belmont and Canning. The proposed Area Improvement Program is the subject of negotiation with the Western Australian Government. 
Of the ten local government areas comprising the South Perth Region, Mandurah probably would be regarded as predominantly rural. It is also proposed, subject to States' agreements, to implement Area Improvement Programs in the Fitzroy Region of Queensland, the Hunter, Illawarra and South East Regions of New South Wales and the Northern Spencer Gulf Region of South Australia. Each of these regions is a country region or has a substantial rural component. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
The information requested is not available at this stage. The funding for programs administered by my Department and involving financial assistance to local authorities is made by way of payments to or for the States. Details of programs and projects are decided only after joint discussions have been held between the Australian Government and the State 
Government concerned. Discussions concerning 1974-75 programs are continuing but have not been finalised. 
Australian Government assistance to local government bodies is also provided through the Grants Commission. This program of assistance is administered by my colleague the Special Minister of State. The Grants Commission's First Report (1974) on Financial Assistance for Local Government, which was tabled in the House of Representatives on 23 August 1974, contains a breakdown of assistance to be made in 1974-75 to individual local government bodies and the basis on which the level of assistance was determined. It is not possible to determine accurately the level of such assistance on an electorate basis as in many cases local government and electorate boundaries do not coincide. 
I refer the honourable member to the Grants Commission Report. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Cities Commission entitled 'Planning Options For Future Darwin '. 
-This matter is before Cabinet now. Actually it is the direct responsibility of the Treasurer, although officers of my Department are working on it with the Taxation Office and with the Treasury. We will report on the matter when Cabinet has made a decision. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the Department of Urban and Regional Development entitled 'Urban Land: Problems and Policies', and an urban paper entitled  Urban Land Prices 1 968- 1 974 '. 
I listened with interest to the speech of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  He said he supported this Bill but then set out to re-write it, as his conservative forces would do. This Bill forms a major part of the Government's positive response to the situation which has arisen from the disaster in Darwin. I might point out that the amendments which have been foreshadowed by the honourable member for the Northern Territory will be dealt with in detail in the Committee stage. Yesterday my colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  introduced this Bill into the House. In the ordinary course of events legislation relating to the establishment of growth centres or the setting up of such organisations as the Darwin Reconstruction Commission would be my responsibility as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. However, because of the special circumstances in Darwin and also in recognition of the special interests and responsibilities of the Minister for the Northern Territory we in Cabinet considered that the proposed Darwin Reconstruction Commission should be responsible to the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
The Darwin Reconstruction Bill should be seen as fundamental to the orderly restoration of a normal way of life for the citizens of Darwin. The Government has committed itself to rebuild the city of Darwin as a matter of national priority. As all honourable members will be aware, the cyclone which struck Darwin in the early hours of Christmas morning largely demolished the city. The problems this has raised, both of an immediate kind and for the future, are enormous. I joined my colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory in Darwin soon after the disaster had struck. The scene of devastation had to be seen to be believed. I have seen disasters before but I have never witnessed the like of that in Darwin soon after that disaster struck. In a quite literal sense it was a shocking experience. The tragedy of that city is still being experienced by many families throughout Australia. 
The Minister for the Northern Territory described to the House the events leading up to the presentation of this Bill. He has also described the other actions which have been taken over the last 6 weeks to restore and reconstruct Darwin. He has outlined to the House the many steps taken to meet the problems arising directly from this disaster and from the subsequent evacuation of most of the city's population. The social consequences of cyclone Tracy have been foremost in the minds of all those people from my Ministry and elsewhere in the Government who have been involved in the immediate task of rebuilding the city. As the Government, we are faced with the task of rebuilding the physical facilities of the city. But much more important is the task of restoring and reuniting the community in Darwin. The delicate fabric of that society has been torn apart. We all have to be tolerant and patient in the restructuring which is taking place. People and their way of life should be the first priority. 
We cannot act in the context of disorder and look only at the short term view at which some people want to look. This Bill will provide the 
Government with the mechanisms by which we can build the city to meet the needs of the people. The Bill formally establishes the Darwin Reconstruction Commission as the body responsible -for the reconstruction, planning and development of the city of Darwin. The Commission will consist of 7 members to be appointed by the Government. There is a provision for two of those members to be drawn from the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and from the Corporation of the City of Darwin respectively.The Commission will have the authority necessary for it to effectively perform its functions of reconstruction, planning and development of the city of Darwin. On all major issues of planning and development policy the Commission will be required to seek the approval of the Minister for the Northern Territory. Might I stress that this arrangement under which authority is being given to the Minister for the Northern Territory is no different from that given in relation to the development of AlburyWodonga, the development of Geelong or the development of any other major growth centre. Even here in Canberra that situation exists. The Minister for the Northern Territory will consult with me as is appropriate on all these matters. 
We will also involve the people before major decisions are made. It will be clear to honourable members that a task of this kind involves the interests of a number of governmental agencies and other bodies, including local representatives. The necessary co-ordination in reconstruction should not be left to a committee arrangement, as some people want. Our experience here in Canberra with the National Capital Development Commission demonstrates the virtues of a single development authority. I was disappointed in the speech made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. So many of his Country Party colleagues have been Ministers responsible for the National Capital Development Commission and he should realise what is required if a development authority such as that which we are setting up is to really carry out the functions that we in this national Parliament are giving it. We have followed this principle in Albury-Wodonga; it has been followed here in Canberra. We need in Darwin a single planning and development body with the necessary authority to co-ordinate and to plan in a rational and coherent way. 
While it is true that the urgency and magnitude of the task requires a strong executive body, we should not be distracted from the basic principles of community involvement and people's participation in the process of reconstruction and restoration. Part VII of the Bill provides for the establishment of a Darwin citizens council. This Council shall consist of up to 20 members. It will advise the Commission on any matters likely to affect the interests of the people who are now, or become, residents of Darwin. Clause 45 of the Bill outlines the procedure which shall be followed for the appointment of members to the Council. The Commission shall publish advertisements in the newspapers inviting nominations from people and setting out the way in which nominations may be made. I should point out that the advertisements will appear in newspapers not only in the Darwin area but in each of the capital cities of the States. The Council will be provided with accommodation, secretarial back-up and other assistance which is necessary for the proper conduct of its business. Normally, the Council will meet in public. We want open and honest discussion by the people on this body. The Council will advise the Commission and provide reports to the Commission on its meetings. The Commission will transmit those reports to the Minister. 
I want to make clear that the need for the participation of the people at all stages of the planning work is of particular concern to me and to the Australian Government. When I speak of the people I mean the present Darwin community, Darwin evacuees and organisations and individuals who may be interested in Darwin. As I have said, the need for a strong executive authority in Darwin to face the challenge of rebuilding this city should be obvious, but we must not override the people's interests and the people's involvement in that task. The city is being rebuilt for them, the people of Darwin. Through dialogue with the people we will build a city of human dimensions. In addition to the Darwin Citizens Council the Minister may establish committees to give advice to the Commission. There have been reports already of the feelings of women about the reconstruction and planning of this city. I have had dialogue with some of them. Their approach is a sensible one. I want to outline their views clearly because they differ from those of the honourable member for the Northern Territory who seems to think that Darwin was good enough as it was and that is how it should be again. The women of Darwin say that they want a different Darwin. We must correct the mistakes that were made in Darwin in the past. Briefly, their view is that old Darwin was basically a city which was bent to the male population. They say that the new Darwin should bring equal opportunities for all. I have no doubt that when the Minister chooses the Citizens 
Council the interests of women will be fully represented. This is in Une with Government pOliCY 
There wil be the closest consultation between the Minister for the Northern Territory and myself. We Will be able to draw on the background and experience we have had in other places such as Canberra, Albury-Wodonga, Geelong, Bathurst-Orange and Monarto. I do not believe anyone could deny that mistakes have been made in the past in the building and planning of Darwin. I think one could say that is an understatement. In fact it is probably not too much to say that many of the problems of our large cities are being experienced on a smaller scale in Darwin. Already this sort of thing can be experienced when one goes to Darwin. We have seen in Darwin, just as in every major capital city, insurance companies operating on speculative values. They are constructing high rise buildings in the central business district. The Darwin central business district is located in probably one of the worst positions because it is on a peninsula. The motor car is used as the major form of transport in Darwin and, of course, everybody goes into the city in the morning and leaves the city in the evening. No city can be geared to a peak load system. Unlike those single-minded individuals opposite who comprised that negative government in the past and who for 23 years did not have any involvement at all in cities but just allowed the laissez faire development of all the major cities to occur- the same sort of thing happened in Darwin- this Government does involve itself in human communities in the cities, where 85 per cent of our people live. We want to ensure that the social, environmental and cultural facilities are given to all cities. They certainly wil be given to the people of Darwin. 
The sprawling suburbia, the overconcentration of office employment in one centre and the problems of transportation were all apparent in old Darwin. The growth of Darwin over the last few years has been very rapid. Its population increased from 2 1 700 in 1 966 to 37 000 in 1 97 1 and then to 46 700 in 1974. One of the main forces creating this rapid growth has been the expansion of Australian Government employment in the city. The Australian Government employees numbered more than 8000 in June 1974. They make up nearly half the citizen work force. We know from our experience in other cities how difficult it is to cope with rapidly increasing populations. For example, Canberra has grown by 13 000 people each year over the past 3 years. This has been a massive increase and it had fully stretched the resources of the planning machinery in Canberra. There are 2 reasons, therefore, why we must be careful about the way in which we rebuild the city of Darwin and the rate at which we commit ourselves to rebuilding it. The mistakes of the past in Darwin must not be repeated. We know that we would be lacking in foresight if we simply re-established the Australian Government workforce overnight. We cannot afford to prejudice the future through lack of foresight now or through hasty short term decisions. To say aU this is not to ignore the very important need to re-unite famines and to restore communities. We must make the best use of the buildings and services Still intact in such a way that every opportunity is taken to provide employment and to improve the urban environment. 
I recognise that it must be difficult for some residents to hear that we cannot commit ourselves to rebuilding the city exactly as it was and in as short a time as possible. Naturally many people of Darwin would feel an attachment to their old city; they would want to return to it. But the Government would be irresponsible to commit itself to an immediate rebuilding of Darwin to the same population and to the same proportions as previously existed. The consequences of such a decision must be to bring major social problems to the people of Darwin. Experience elsewhere demonstrates that a too-rapid rate of growth leads not only to a lack of adequate services and amenities but also to social problems within families and within communities. For an example one only has to look at cities such as Gladstone in Queensland where the previous Government allowed fast growth and allowed social problems to be created. It did not help in any way at all to alleviate those problems. It was only when this Government came to power that we started to look at the real social problems of the city of Gladstone, which is a great example for every honourable member opposite to look at. 
The Minister for the Northern Territory pointed out that Darwin would remain a major centre for government activities in the Territory. As a government we Will re-establish Darwin, but we must re-establish Darwin on firm foundationsphysical, social and environmental. I would not be surprised if a Darwin, rebuilt and properly planned, ultimately attracted a population much greater than that which existed before Cyclone Tracy. That is one of the options which the Government must keep in mind. The Cities Commission, which is within my Ministry, has prepared a document entitled 'Planning Options for Future Darwin'. I tabled it in the 
House yesterday. That report basically examines the options available in the reconstruction of the city. It recognises the need to get reconstruction under way as soon as possible. It recognises that the town must return to as close to normal functioning as is possible and that families must be re-united with a minimum of delay. 
The report has been put forward to seek community comment and involvement in the planning process. We distributed 10 000 copies of it to people not only in Darwin but also in other capital cities so that they could have the opportunity to put forward their points of view. That has never been done in the history of Australia by any government, let alone an Australian government. The report provides the basis for the preparation of a second and much more detailed document. I expect that document to be available next month. Public involvement will be sought again in the discussion of the alternative courses which may be pursued in planning for the future Darwin. Meetings are being held already in all State capital cities between officers of the Cities Commission, the Department of the Northern Territory and Darwin citizens. They are chaired by Darwin citizens. More meetings will be held in the future. In this way the Government hopes not just to fulfil a commitment to public participation in planning but to gain the best advice before it takes major decisions. 
If we are to succeed in rebuilding Darwin we must work in a spirit of co-operation. The wishes and needs of the citizens must be fulfilled. The task before us requires co-operative efforts by the people, people's organisations, the Reconstruction Commission, the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, the Corporation of the City of Darwin and the Australian Government. Only in this co-operative way can we create a city which overcomes past mistakes and which provides for the needs and aspirations of the people for the future. This Bill provides the formal basis for this co-operative approach. I commend the Bill and I commend the actions taken by my colleague, the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
For the information of honourable members I present 3 ministerial communiques on the Geelong growth complex. 
The honourable member should know that one of the Australian Government's major priorities is urban and regional development. The Prime Minister has at all times supported those programs. He was the original initiator of them as far back as 1968. He tried to show the then Australian Government the deterioration of the Australian cities. The Government, so far from cutting expenditure in the areas from which the honourable member comes, will be able to divert an extra $4m above the Budget allocation this year into local government in the western region of Sydney through the Regional Employment Development program. 
The honourable member asks: Has Parramatta been designated for the RED scheme?' I use the term 'the western sector of Sydney' which takes in some 10 municipalities. Certain municipalities, such as Blacktown and Fairfield, have been designated. Because this Government works on a regional basis we are diverting some of the people who are unemployed in the Fairfield and Blacktown area into other areas of the western region where we think such a diversion is necessary to satisfy regional priorities. I want to make it quite clear that I am working with the Prime Minister and other Ministers to examine Government expenditure closely. But major priorities for urban and regional development have not come under any criticism at all within the Government; they are still a major priority. 
I .rise to oppose this amendment which was put forward and carried by the Opposition in the Senate. I want to give the details. A similar provision was contained in the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957. The NCDC is under my administration. Since this Government came to power it has set up several development authorities. It is strange that the Opposition did not protest when we introduced this provision into the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation Bill. Opposition speakers have used terms such as 'absolute power' and 'total power'. It is just utter nonsense for honourable members to use such cliches. They do not really understand what we have evolved. We are drawing on the experience of people of the same political vintage as the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who is sitting at the table, or the Liberal member from South Australia. 
He is such an insignificant member that one does not know what electorate he represents. My Government has included in other legislation ministerial power to give directions appropriate to the development of growth centres and cities. The New South Wales Government, the Victorian Government and the Austraiian Government agreed, as is set out in paragraph 5(16) of the Albury-Wodonga Area Development Agreement that the Minister or Ministers should have the power of direction. That paragraph states: 
The Ministerial Council may give directions to the Development Corporation concerning the performance of its functions, the exercise of its powers and its procedure, and the Development Corporation shall comply with those directions. 
May I remind honourable members that the representatives on the Ministerial Council of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation include the Federal Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I was the Austraiian Government representative. The first New South Wales representative was the Country Party Minister,  Sir John  Fuller. He has now been replaced by  Mr Jim  Bruxner. The Victorian representative is  Mr Murray  Byrne, who is a Liberal Party member. It will be seen that there is representation through Ministers from the major political parties in Australia. They give direction to the Albury-Wodonga Corporation. In this legislation we have included the same powers as those given to the Ministers in respect of the Albury-Wodonga Corporation. Yet members opposite wish to turn back the clock to the autocratic days of the undemocratic procedures. 
Honourable members opposite seek to give powers to a corporation that is not elected by the people. The Minister of the day is elected by the people and is answerable to the people. If the Opposition gives extended powers to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, which is not an elected body, it is being anti-democratic. Of course, that is nothing new. The Opposition has always been autocratic. It is for that reason that I say to honourable members opposite that they should agree to the proposal and that they should not start frustrating the procedures of this House. There are other authorities which the Opposition set up while it was in government and which use the same principle. For instance, the Opposition when in government used a similar clause in the Australian Institute of Marine Science legislation in 1972. Honourable gentlemen opposite gave that statutory authority the same powers as we wish to give to the Commission. There are other authorities which were set up by the Opposition while its members were in government, such as those created by the Broadcasting and Television Act 1956 and the Atomic Energy Act 1953. Do honourable members opposite say that those non-elected bodies should not have some ministerial direction? All we are asking the Parliament to do is to give authority to the elected representative of the people of Australia. That representative in this case is the Minister for the Northern Territory. He is answerable to the Parliament and should have the right to be able to direct the statutory authority in conformity with Government policy. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question, is as follows: 
One Urban Affairs Fellowship was awarded in 1973-74. (2, 3 and 4) The recipient was  Dr Margaret  Bowman, B.A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Politics, Monash University, Melbourne. 
An allowance, depending on family circumstances, is payable towards additional expenses incurred in being based in Canberra. Other allowances and expenses deemed necessary for the conduct of the research, and not available from other sources, are also payable. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question, is as follows: 
None. 
),(3)(4) and (5) See (1) above. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Approximately twelve thousand copies are being distributed. 
Yes. 
The list includes individuals, parliamentarians, libraries, resident groups, developers, academic institutions, and others who requested the publication. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At present my Department has no program of assistance under which the request by the Ravensthorpe Community Committee for equipping the Community Centre at Fitzgerald can be considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to pages 3390-3392 of Hansard for 12 November 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I am sure the honourable member is aware, the Australian Government is not legally obliged to pay rates and taxes to local authorities. However, in the case ofthe Glebe Estate it is intended that payments equivalent to the normal municipal rates and water sewerage and drainage charges will be paid to the Leichhardt Municipal Council and the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board. My Department will deal with claims by local authorities for all such rates and service charges in accordance with established procedures set out in Treasury Directions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The responsibility for the Glebe lands recently acquired from the Church of England is one which I share jointly with my colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction. The administration of the estate is therefore not one for my Department alone, it lies with a Project Board comprising the Secretary of my Department, the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Construction and the  Chairman  of the Cities Commission. Neither I nor the Project Board is aware of any serious allegations in regard to the letting policy being pursued at Glebe. 
My attention has not been drawn to the newspaper to which the honourable member refers. This paper is not one which is noted for its veracity and the officers concerned with the Glebe project are not in the habit of paying serious heed to what it says. 
The letting arrangements which are applied to houses which become vacant in the Glebe estate are as follows: 
Applications for tenancy are considered by a Tenancy Committee strictly in the order in which they are received. The Tenancy Committee comprises the Project Manager, an officer of the Department of Social Security and an officer of the Department of Housing and Construction with experience in tenancy matters. 
Selection of tenants is made having regard to the following criteria: 
urgency of housing need 
availability of houses of suitable size for the applicants needs 
degree of past identification with Glebe, or special need for accommodation in Glebe area. 
The rental of houses for new tenancies is fixed at the estimated market rent as determined by an experienced local agent. Rental rebates are granted to people on low incomes in conformity with the scale used by the New South Wales Housing Commission. Existing tenants have been advised of this fact and have been invited to apply for rental rebates if they feel that their circumstances warrant it. The tenant with an assessed family income of $37.50 per week would, on this scale, pay a rental of $7.00 per week. The tenant with an income of $ 109 per week would pay a rent of $30 per week. In no case, of course, would a tenant pay more than the estimated market rental for the house he occupies. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Copies of press releases issued by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development are distributed by hand in the press boxes at Parliament House and by mail to people on the Ministerial mailing list. Occasionally, press releases are sent by telex to regional media where the content particularly concerns their area. Copies are also published in the Australian Government Digest. 
There is a list of people, constantly changing, who receive copies of the Minister's statements. All on the list at present have indicated that they wish to receive all the press releases. Additions to the list are made only on request, after checking that this is the form in which the person wishes to receive information. 
The regular mailing list consists of 90 people, plus some 60 to the press boxes. Occasionally, a press release on a matter of particular interest to certain groups, such as local councils, may be more widely circulated. 
The costs of this service are not separated out from other costs in printing, salary, or administration charges. 
This occupies varying time for a number of different officers- mainly information officers and clerical staff who are primarily engaged in other work. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present the agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to South Australia for urban and regional development for the financial year ending 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the past, the Australian Government has liaised with various Departments of the New South Wales Government in an attempt to co-ordinate road maintenance programs undertaken by the respective Governments on each side of the Australian Capital Territory border. This process is continuing. Reconstruction of the Sutton Road, Letchworth Road and the Federal Highway have all been the subjects of co-ordinated exercises by both Governments within thenown boundaries. 
There are precedents where the Australian Government has acted jointly with the New South Wales Government to finance work on the border of the Territory. The bridge over the railway line at Letchworth, on the road connecting Queanbeyan with the Monaro Highway, was financed by the NCDC to the extent of one third of the cost. 
The precedent has been used as the basis for the recent offer by the Prime Minister that the Australian and New South Wales Governments share the financing of the cost of - a bridge over the railway line at Queanbeyan, associated with the duplication of Canberra Avenue from Fyshwick to Queanbeyan. The NSW Premier has agreed to this offer. 
The status and adequacy of the Federal and Barton Highways will be influenced by the results of the joint study with the NSW Government of the national highway relocation between Goulburn and Albury. 
The Roads Grant Act includes a provision for reserving up to 10 per cent of the rural arterial road grants to provide the Australian Government with an opportunity to accelerate works on roads such as the honourable member mentions, if these are seen as having high national priority. My colleague the Minister for Transport will bear these matters in mind in his administration of the roads legislation. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The average price of land sold in urban fringe areas in Adelaide was $3,986 in December 1974. This is the latest available figure supplied' by' the South Australian Valuation Department. 
The movement in average land prices in Adelaide's urban fringe areas over the last 2 years is shown in the table below: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department has not used the services of management consultants during the past 1 2 months. 
and (3) see (1) above. 
The answer .to the honourable member's question is as follows; 
A range of child care facilities is planned by the Department of the Capital Territory. as part of the development of Tuggeranong. The National Capital Development Commission will identify appropriate sites. 
As has been the practice in the past, local community groups will be involved in siting and planning of those facilities. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have had discussions with my colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory, officers of his Department and officers of the National Capital Development Commission in which we have agreed upon methods for developing a comprehensive transport plan for Canberra. This plan will include consideration of parking requirements for Canberra in the light of public transport capacities and short-term parking needs for shoppers. We have decided that the National Capital Development Commission construct from its own funds a parking structure in Canberra's City Centre for short-stay parking, which will cater primarily for shoppers and visitors to the city. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to my answer to H.O.R. parliamentary question No. 1 730. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974, I present five agreements made under that Act relating to Queensland and Tasmania. 
As honourable members will be aware, the land commissions in South Australia were set up in the first year of the Whitlam Government. Last year the Government made available $8m to buy virgin land on the fringe of Adelaide. There are now 3000 blocks of land in the pipeline and tomorrow the Prime Minister, the Deputy Premier of South Australia and I will turn the first sod for the sale of land to young people. The cost of the land will be approximately $5,800 for a block approximately 10 miles from the Adelaide GPO. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, see below. 
Grants have been made to the following individuals and organisations for the purposes mentioned: 
One Urban Affairs Fellowship was awarded in 1973-74 to  Dr Margaret  Bowman of Monash University to undertake research with the Department on an analysis of local government functions throughout Australia. An allowance covering travelling and accommodation expenses incurred by the Fellow in carrying out her project was paid by my Department this amounted to $1,115. 
An amount of $1,000 was paid by the Cities Commission in June 1974 to Councillor P. Ritter of Western Australia to assist in the preparation of his publication 'Encyclopaedia of Australian Planning. ' 
An amount of $50,000 was given to the Australian Institute of Urban Studies in 1 973- 1 974 and a similar amount has been given to them for the current financial year. These moneys are not given for specific research projects but are a contribution towards the activities of the Institute. 
An amount of $15,000 has been made available to the Murray Valley Development League in each of the financial years 1 974-75 and 1 975-76 to defray the costs of 
obtaining additional research staff in the form of district development officers and 
general administrative expenses. 
An amount of $4,429 was paid in 1973-74 to  Mr Kemter,  a legal consultant who is preparing summaries of all legislation concerned with historic and environmental preservation. (0 The following projects were undertaken during the National Estate Program in 1973-74. 
NEW SOUTH WALES 
Project 14- Allocation to the New South Wales Government for the conduct by the State Planning Authority of a study of the historical aspects of Parramatta City Centre and its pan in the settlement and early development of Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The following Departments have been involved in varying degrees in this matter: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No statistics are collected on the number of allotments for sale at various points of time. An estimate based on information obtained from the South Australian Valuation Department indicates that there were between 2200 and 2300 allotments on the market in July 1 974. 
An indication of the price of allotments is best obtained by looking at what actually happened in the months of May, June and July 1 974. The major development areas where allotments were sold at an average price of less than $5,000 were Salisbury and Noarlunga. In Salisbury the average price of lots sold in May was $5,101, June $4,608, and July $4,996. There were 62 sales in these months. In Noarlunga the average price of lots sold in May was $4,885, in June $4,877 and in July $4,646. There were 274 sales in these three months in Noarlunga. 
As stated above no authoritative information is available on the number of allotments actually for sale and the prices being asked. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ' 
1 ) No exercises in civil defence preparedness have taken place within the last 18 months in my department. However, regular inspections of our fire-fighting equipment and technical facilities are made. Owing to the fragmented location of our offices through several buildings it is impractical to conduct full scale fire, bomb threat and other drills without disturbing several other departments and private concerns. Action is in hand to conduct regular and comprehensive drills when we assume tenancy of our new premises. 
See (1) above. 
See(l) above. 
See(l) above. 
Yes. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 380 which I gave on 25 February 1975. (Hansard. page 698). 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States (Question No. 58) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 41 on 3. 10.74, Hansard, pages 2233 to 2237. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer 1 gave on 13.1 1.73 (Hansard, page 3278) and to the Prime Minister's answer to his question without notice on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373 to 3374). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 768 which I gave on 25 February 1975. (Hansard page 698) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 877 which I gave on 25 February 1975 (Hansard page 698) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 895 which I gave on 25 February 1975 (Hansard pae699) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 1647 which I gave on 25 February 1975. (Hansard, page 702.) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 806 which I gave on 28 February 1975. (Hansard, page 958.) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 767 which I gave on 28 February 1975. (Hansard. page 958.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer to previous question No. 390 and my reply which sets out servicing costs per hectare for capital cities other than Brisbane (not available) and Canberra. I also draw your attention to the comments contained in that reply which refer to the problems associated with the collection and use of this type of information. 
The average cost of development of land for private detached dwellings in the ACT for 1973-74 was $4,423per lot. This includes charges for the supply of water, sewerage. roads, kerbs and guttering, and land acquisition but is ex elusive of headworks costs, disposal costs, and roads of a national or territorial nature. 
This compares with very general information which has recently become available to my Department which indi cates development costs of the following order on a State basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
) The total printing is now 1 1 000. 
At present the mailing list totals 6500 plus local councils and regions, each of which gets three copies. The total is therefore approximately 9500. Other copies are distributed in response to individual requests and at seminars and conferences. The list includes Parliamentarians, libraries, academic and professional institutions, citizens' groups and private individuals. 
The list is computerised form. A printout is held at the Department of Urban and Regional Development which interested Members may consult. 
The first issue of Community contained an open invitation to any contributor. Members of the Opposition have been specifically invited to contribute. Initially  Mr John  Gorton was invited, when he was Opposition spokesman on urban affairs. Invitations have since been extended to current spokesmen on urban affairs, regional development, housing, the environment and related matters. 
Contributions from whatever source are subject to editorial judgement as to length, relevance of topic, standard of English and adequacy of treatment. 
No. 1- $2,493.48; No. 2- $2,53 1.95; Nos. 3-5-Estimated cost is $2,500 for 1 1 000 copies. 
The names and descriptions of contributors accompany their articles. 
7 ) Fees at rates determined by the Australian Journalists ' Association are paid only to professional journalists and freelance writers who are normally paid for such contributions. A total of three have been paid. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, 
The Cities Commission has briefed Messrs Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey to produce a report titled 'River Murray in Relation to Albury/Wodonga'. This report will be available in the next two months. A conclusion of the report is that the quality of water in the Hume Reservoir and the River Murray upstream of Albury is satisfactory for the demands which will be made upon it by the development of Albury/Wodonga. The portion of the report covering the water quality upstream of Albury has not been separately costed. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to question No. 1581 in the Hansard of 4 December 1974 at page 4590. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is not one detailed reference source of the Australian Government's policy on decentralisation. However the following sources contain the basis of the Government's policy: 
Urban and Regional Development 1974-75 Budget Paper No. 8, Canberra 1974. 
Cities Commission, 'Report to the Australian Government. A Recommended New Cities Program for the Period 1973-78 'Canberra 1973. 
Department of Urban and Regional Development. 'National Program for Urban and Regional Development' Canberra 1973. 
Department of Urban and Regional Development First and Second Annual Reports. 
5 ) Cities Commission, Second Annual Report. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Joint Transport studies IDC has developed from a decision of the government to authorise the Departments of Urban and Regional Development and Transport to initiate joint studies into urban, inter-urban and regional passenger and freight movement. The terms of references arc: 
The studies should be conducted in two parts: 
studies of intra-urban passenger and freight movements: and 
studies of inter-urban and regional passenger and freight movements. 
The states can be invited, to contribute staff to work on the studies. 
The studies can be conducted with the assistance or the Bureau of Transport Economics and Roads- the Departments of the Treasury, Manufacturing Industry and Environment and Conservation to collaborate in the studies. 
The studies should examine the technical, economic and political feasibility of introducing new transport technologies into Australia. 
Yes, The committee meets monthly with meetings alternately chaired by the Permanent Heads of my Department and the Department of Transport. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Acquisition of the major portion of the Camden Park Estate owned by Taiga Pty Ltd has been under consideration by the New South Wales and Australian Governments since  Mr Snedden  's earlier question. The question of the Camden Park Estate is being dealt with as part of the negotiations for the whole of the South West Sector of Sydney and the stage reached in the negotiations gives confidence that agreement will be reached. The necessary preparations for the designation and acquisition of land in the South West Sector are under way so that action may be put in hand as soon as a financial agreement has been concluded. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The answers to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the reply to question on notice No. 1862, provided by my colleague, the Special Minister of State, at page 4841 of the Hansard of 5 December 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the recommendations of the Committee of Enquiry into the National Estate, a grant from the 1973-74 national estate program was made to the New South Wales State Planning Authority for a study of historical aspects of the Parramatta City Centre. 
During 1974-75 to date, applications for national estate assistance in the Electoral Division of Parramatta have been received in respect of: 
Elizabeth Farm, Parramatta  Roxy  Theatre 18 Great Western Highway, Parramatta  'Brislington',  Parramatta 
For the information of honourable members I present a second planning report on the future Darwin prepared on behalf of the Department of the Northern Territory for the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, entitled: 'Darwin planning guide lines '. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) See Schedule below. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The Commonwealth Statistican has provided the attached statement on Local Government Finance in each State for each of the last five years for which this information is currently available. This information is provided subject to the following qualifications: 
Figures shown relate only to the 'ordinary services' of local authorities and exclude particulars for business undertakings (e.g. electricity, water supply, sewerage, etc.) 
Only preliminary figures are available for 1972-73. 
All percentages quoted are based on total receipts i.e. the total of Ordinary Revenue and Loan Receipts. 
Some figures for Local Government Authorities in Queensland are not available for the years 1968-69 and 1969-70. 
No split is readily available between Australian and State Government grants to local authorities and these have been combined in the Statement. 
Details relating to the items in the statement may be obtained from the Bureau's publication 'Australian Municipal Information System ' ( Ref. 1 . 1 2. ). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
All-day parking cannot be considered in isolation from other aspects of transport. With regard to Canberra, I have had discussions with both  Mr Bryant  and  Mr Enderby  and many others on this topic. 
As a result, the NCDC and the Department of the Capital Territory are jointly developing a transport package for Canberra which will reduce the demand for commuter parking by progressively bringing it under firmer control and at the same time providing better public transport 
Specific proposals and alternatives will be widely publicised and community participation will be actively sought at the proper time. 
Canberra: All-day Parking  (Question No. 378) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for the Capital Territory and I have agreed that Canberra's current stage of growth makes it both possible and necessary to improve public transport services and bring commuter parking under closer control as a coordinated exercise. There are, therefore, no current intentions to provide additional all-day parking in the main employment centres. 
There is no current intention to introduce pay-parking in any of the car parks attached directly to government offices. However, parking controls can be expected wherever they are needed to prevent parking on adjoining streets or open spaces in order to reduce parking blight and road congestion. 
These measures will reduce the growth of unnecessary commuter traffic and ensure support for improved transport services to the main employment centres. Within the city centre, however, the existing public parking spaces now used by commuters will be progressively brought under control by means of pay-parking, so that more of them become available for short-stay parking by visitors and shoppers, etc. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The various stages in the process of land design and development in the A.C.T. up to the handing over of blocks to the Department of the Capital Territory, are: 
A District Outline Plan 
A Neighbourhood Design 
Land and Engineering Surveys 
Block Sub-Divisions 
Survey Drawings 
Engineering Designs 
Tendering 
Land Development 
On average, the first group of blocks is ready for handing over after 26 weeks from the commencement of Land Development (stage 8). The total time to the completion of this stage is 162 weeks. 
There are 7000 blocks in the planning design stage; an estimated 6000 blocks are in the engineering design stage, the final process before construction. At 30 June 1974, 4643 blocks were under construction, 
and (S) Blocks are scheduled to the Department for' disposal some months in advance of contractual completion and generally at two month intervals. The April 1974 schedule listed blocks which could be disposed of during September-October 1974 and contained 750 blocks. Similar listings were made, and are proposed for June, August and October 1974. 
The steps for ultimate disposal of blocks are reviewed at regular intervals with a view to streamlining operations as far as possible, and to reduce the time between stages or to include more areas and blocks than before in the same time scale. 
The number of blocks for detached housing is being increased as illustrated in the table below. However, the detached housing component has to be considered in the context of the total program for land being serviced for residential purposes. Output of serviced land has been stepped up from 3820 sites in 1971-72 to an estimated 8000 sites in 1974-75. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The future growth of Canberra within the A.C.T. is being planned on the basis of the 'Y' Plan. The 'Y' Plan, however, is under review in connection with an investigation by the NCDC into future metropolitan transport needs. 
and (3) Australian Government and New South Wales Government Ministers have met on several occasions to discuss future urban development in the sub-region and joint consideration of the situation is proceeding. The most recent meeting with the appropriate N.S.W. Ministers was on 12 December 1974. 
Retail Establishments for the Year 1968-69 (Question No. 1006) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Government believes that urban, rural and associated development anywhere in Australia should proceed on an integrated and orderly basis and that the need for this is urgent in areas surrounding major urban centres such as Canberra. The Australian Government has no present plans for development of N.S.W. land but the general situation is currently being examined by both it and the N.S.W. Government. 
Discussions with N.S.W. on this complex matter have made considerable progress since this Government came to office and a joint government examination of the situation is proceeding. 
It is not within the power of the Australian Government to increase the area of the A.C.T. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable gentleman to my answer to H.O.R. Parliamentary Question No. 484.  
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Department does not maintain a formal record of requests which have been received from voluntary organisations for financial assistance which have not resulted in an extension of assistance. 
Since its establishment the Department has made annual grants available to the Australian Institute of Urban Studies and the Australian Council of National Trusts for the purpose of assisting them to maintain federal headquarters, in the same way as was done by previous Australian Governments. In 1974-75 base grants-in-aid of $50,000 and $55,000 will be made available to these two organisations respectively. 
My Department has recently received requests for financial assistance from several regional Organisations of Councils for carrying out of research and inquiry. I am considering these requests in conjunction with my counterparts in the various States and may shortly be able to assist these organisations in this way under the Regional Organisation Assistance Program previously announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 3600 vehicles per day 
5150 vehicles per day 
No information. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to my answer to House of Representatives Parliamentary Question No. 249. 
Canberra: All-day Parking  (Question No.  2049) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to my answer to House of Representatives Parliamentary Question No. 378. 
As the Minister responsible for the National Capital Development Commission I welcome the introduction of the National Gallery Bill. The NCDC has worked closely with the Prime Minister's Department in the lead-up to the building of the great new National Gallery. I am glad that this Bill now sets the seal on the new Gallery, and I am sure it will be warmly supported by all members. I am pleased by the attitude expressed on both sides of the House. I think the Gallery represents a coming of age. It will provide a home for the works of Australian artists and all artists of the human race. We find art expressed in many different ways. Art is an expression of an artist's attitude to life, his aspirations, his frustrations, his ecstasy or her ecstasy. It is the expression of the artist who has eyes to see, a mind to think and a heart to feel. Some artists who have been oppressed and still are oppressed are expressing their attitude to freedom. We owe much to the artists of the past, and of course even to the artists of the present. I am indeed happy that we are creating this National Gallery to house their works so that the present generation and future generations can enjoy the work they have done and the expression of attitudes they have given to their fellow men. 
One of the most important features of the National Gallery is the way it will enhance the concept of the parliamentary triangle in Canberra. In broad terms this is the area bounded by Commonwealth Avenue, King's Avenue and Lake Burley Griffin. At the apex of this triangle stands Capital Hill with the present parliamentary building in front of it. It is a formal area of great natural beauty which has been supplemented by careful landscaping. Already the triangle includes the National Library building, which by any standard is a fine piece of architecture. Now we are engaged in building a High Court building and the National Gallery. 
The Gallery will give Canberra a building of international stature. Honourable members will recall the criticism of the British expert, Lord Holford, when he visited Australia about a decade and a half ago. He said that the only building of international distinction in Canberra at that time was the National Library. Of course we now have other fine buildings which together with existing buildings will give Canberra an even greater character than it has had. The addition of the National Gallery to the parliamentary triangle will take much of the sting out of this sort of criticism. 
As honourable members are aware, we are making progress in the planning of a new Parliament House. When all of these projects are completed I am certain we will have created a formal centre for our city of great distinction. It is one of the hallmarks of national capitals that they provide the legislative and creative heart of the nation. Formal areas of this sort are not always successful. They can be contrived in a way that is artificial with buildings and landscaping at odds with perspective and the natural environment. So far we have avoided this problem. By careful planning aimed at blending new buildings into the great backdrop of lake, mountain and sky, I am sure we can make the parliamentary triangle a formal area of unsurpassed quality. 
I do not want to go into great detail on the nature of the building. The plans and specifications of the Gallery have been well publicised. There have been some changes in details of design, finish and programming since the NCDC published a descriptive brochure on the Gallery in August 1972. In essence the plans for the Gallery remain the same and I commend this paper to honourable members who want more information. There is some new information on the cost and completion date of the Gallery which should be supplied to my Department. When the contract for construction was let the cost of the Gallery was $13,168,792. In view of the sharp rises in costs in recent years some revision of this cost has been inevitable. According to the latest information I have, the estimated cost of the Gallery is now $15,696,782. This is an increase of around 20 per cent. Of course we are not happy about this extra cost, but I suggest that in view of the upward revision of all estimates in the past year it is a moderate one. I assure the Parliament that we are very conscious of the dangers of cost escalation, and care is being taken to control costs. 
When the contract for building the Gallery was issued by the Government 2 years ago it was expected that the Gallery would be completed in August 1977. Despite progress made on construction, it is likely that this completion date will have to be extended. Again the NCDC is conscious of the fact that the nation has waited many years for this Gallery. It is no cause of satisfaction to the Government that a great art collection is stored in warehouses and crates. We want the Gallery to be finished as soon as possible to put this vast holding of art treasures before the Australian people at the first possible moment. With this aim we will press for the completion of the Gallery at the earliest possible date. 
The Gallery floor plan includes the greatest possible allowance to show the collection to the best advantage. About a third of the floor space will be devoted to display galleries and the circulation links between them. By comparison with other great galleries of the world this is a good ratio of display space to total floor area. The Gallery will also provide a number of other amenities and facilities. It will stress the educational side of a Gallery with the provision of 2 theatres and 2 lecture rooms. This will allow an ambitious program of art education with a key emphasis on our Australian art history. It will have a library of 45,000 books, again with a strong leaning to Australian art. It will provide a restaurant to seat over 130 people, a museum shop, storage space, a photography department, and space for workshop and building services. The library will lack none of the resources and services needed to support and sustain a great collection of art treasures. 
Another important feature of the new Gallery will be its closeness to the lake and to the gardens on both sides of the lake. One of the most successful events at the recent Australia '75 Festival in Canberra was the outdoor sculpture display in the Commonwealth Gardens across the lake from the Gallery site. Displaying pieces of sculpture and other works of art in an outdoor setting is one of the better ways of putting the fine features of an art collection before the people. When the new gallery is built I hope it will be possible to display sculpture and other suitable pieces against a rich backdrop of lake, mountain and sky. 
I want to conclude with some comments about the National Gallery collection. This has been a source of strong comment in the past 2 years. I think it is a pity that critics should focus on single works of art rather than on the broad sweep of this great collection. There will always be strong differences of opinion about the merits of individual art works. Only by looking at the range of a collection and the forms of art it includes is it possible to make a sound judgment of its total worth. The range of the National Gallery's collection is truly impressive. Some of the impact of the collection can be measured by looking at the additions made to the collection in the past 5 years. Too much attention has been given to 'Blue Poles' and 'Woman V. This has distracted attention from the excellence of many other pieces of art that have been bought. 
One of the significant trends of these years has been a decline in the number of Australian works acquired as a percentage of total acquisitions. Australian works were 96 per cent of the collection in 1971-72. In the first 6 months of 1974-75 they dropped to 68 per cent of new purchases. Spending on Australian works as a percentage of the total has fallen even more sharply- from 95 per cent in 1971-72 to 3 per cent in the first 6 months of 1974-75. This reflects 2 factors- the virtual completion of the Australian collection to the present day and the adoption of a policy of buying pieces which represent other schools of art. 
Any national collection of paintings is never complete. There are always gaps to be filled and which can be filled as for one reason or another pieces of historical art come on the market. There is also the constant need to keep a collection up to date with new works by established artists and the work of new artists. I am confident that these duties will be discharged faithfully by the Gallery in its acquisition policies in the years ahead. If this is assured, it makes sound sense to build up collections of ethnic art and of paintings, sculptures, drawings and other pieces from the great heritage of world art. 
A careful look at the purchases of the past 5 years shows that the gallery has done a fine job in building a balanced collection. A wide range of Australian paintings has been bought. It includes famous figures from our art history like Rupert Bunny, Streeton and Tom Roberts. It includes also the works of artists now working at the height of their powers, great Australian painters like Fred Williams, Clifton Pugh, John Olsen, Albert Tucker and Frank Hodgkinson, just to name a few. Fine, rich collections of Australian sculpture, crafts, prints, drawings photos and posters have also been assembled. 
In step with the build up of Australian work has gone a gradual expansion in purchases of worldwide art and ethnic art. To my mind this is an extremely sensible way of approaching the task of building a great national art collection. When the collection is unveiled in this new gallery I am sure that its breadth and richness will silence any lingering criticism of purchase policies. In recent years the ranks of the great art galleries of the world have been joined by some fine new galleries. The Van Gogh Gallery in Amsterdam and the new gallery in Rotterdam are two that come to mind. When this art gallery is completed and its treasures are put on display I am sure that it will not be overshadowed. It will be a great and enduring monument to our artists and a source of pride to the Australian nation. This national art gallery above all is a part of our developing Australian character. It is a part of the development of our people. This gallery is for people. It is for them to draw from and to express themselves. It will give them the opportunity to give and share their contributions to our human family. I think that is the whole basis for this gallery. 
I think that the Australian National Gallery will show the maturity that the people of this country have reached. I am not giving the credit for its establishment just to this side of the House because I know that the seed was sown years ago when the Government of honourable members opposite was in office. But I think all members in this Parliament must give credit to the drive, initiative and inspiration of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in giving men like Mollison and the men who are now in charge of the gallery a fair go and the moral support that is necessary to make it a great gallery. I think that we should all give full support for this measure which expresses the growing maturity of the Australian nation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
I do not think it is of much use calling the Prime Minister names. I think it must be clearly stated that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has given the thrust to the National Gallery. 
-I have,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-It is a fact that the Land Commission acquired the land for approximately $4,750 a block and that the sale prices varied between $5,200 and $6,200, giving an average sale price of $5,800. That price of $5,800 was at least $1,000 less than the price of comparable land in other parts of Adelaide. It has to be taken into consideration that the Land Commission does have a debt burden. It has administrative costs and it has to run at a profit. Consequently, this is the first step that has been taken. The honourable member asks if land in Adelaide has always been cheaper than in other States. It is cheaper than in other States because the progressive Dunstan Government took action at least 2 years ago to stabilise land prices. During that period the cost of land has skyrocketed in all other capital cities. I have explained to the House and to the general public that because there has been a restraint by the private sector on the supply of urban land and because there is little urban land in the pipelines of development, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne, the Government expects a pressure on the cost of urban land within six to nine months. I have also said that the 3 areas of Australia where we will be able to stabilise the price of land are South Australia, Canberra and Albury-Wodonga, where our land programs are under way. When we examine the cost of land, the situation is that the cost of land in Adelaide is at least $11,000 less per block than the cost of comparable land being made available in metropolitan Sydney. It is at least $8,000 to $9,000 less than the cost of land being made available in metropolitan Melbourne. 
Regarding urban land policy and the land commissions, the first program which was adopted was by the South Australian Government, when the Australian Government made $8m available in the first financial year 1973-74, which has allowed this program to get under way. This financial year the Government made available $24m to South Australia to supplement its Land Commission program. Consequently, because the other State governments have now found that the land commission program in South Australia is going to be a success, the New South Wales Liberal Government has entered into an agreement with an urban land council, which is similar to the land commissions, and the Australian Government has been able to make available $ 10m in the first year to assist to stabilise the price of land in Sydney. It has been able to make available a further $10m in the southwestern corridor- that is, the area between Liverpool and Campbelltown. I was informed by the State Minister for Urban Development and Town Planning in Western Australia,  Mr Rushton,  that he as the responsible Minister, with the Premier of Western Australia, have now agreed to enter into discussions about an urban land council with the Australian Government. I am having talks next week with the Premier of Victoria and also there are to be discussions with the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland. I predict that by 30 June every State will have entered into an agreement with the Australian Government for either land commissions or urban land councils to try to stabilise the price of urban land. 
No funds have been requested this financial year for the F19 highway in Victoria, but funds have been made available to the Victorian Government to carry out an environmental impact study on the F19. In company with the honourable member for Casey I have personally inspected the Maroondah Highway which cuts through the honourable member's electorate. I am concerned about the situation, particularly if the highway is to cut through the very delicate environmental area of the Mullum Mullum Valley or if it will affect the North Ringwood area where a large number of families would be involved. Frankly, I am in favour of upgrading the Maroondah Highway on exactly the course which it follows at present. I will speak with the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Environment about the possibility of looking at other alternatives, particularly in regard to the Olivero proposals put forward by the honourable member and by the Road Safety Committee. I shall take up this matter personally with the Minister for Transport who has a joint responsibility with me to deal with these aspects of urban arterial highways. 
For the information of honourable members I present a Cities Commission report in 3 volumes, titled 'River Murray in relation to Albury-Wodonga'. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Copies of a synopsis of the Report can be obtained from my office. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by P.A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd for the Cities Commission entitled 'Moreton Region 
Employment Base Study Report'. Owing to the limited number available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Copies of a synopsis of this report can be obtained from my office. 
I am informed by the Department of Urban and Regional Development that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Department hired the vehicle in February 1973 to meet its initial transport requirements. The Department of the Capital Territory made normal official vehicles available at the end of March and August in that year. 
The vehicle was situated at the Department's offices at MTIA House and Lombard House, Canberra. 
The Department used the vehicle for its daily work such as courier services and delivery of papers and staff trips between Departments in Canberra. The Department also used the vehicle to make inspections of growth centres and other areas being considered for departmental programs. The hire of this vehicle was terminated in August 1974. The Department also hired a Volkswagen vehicle in February 1973 and terminated its hire in December 1974. In February 1 975 the Department hired a van pending the availability of one from the Department of the Capital Territory. 
Minister for the Media: Staff (Question No. 1855) 
For the information of honourable members I present a study by Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd, titled: Townsville economic structure study. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of this study have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Copies of a synopsis of this study are available from my office. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill enables the Australian Government to provide financial assistance to a State for flood mitigation and to adjust the terms of loans made under financial agreements with the States. All members are aware of the loss of 1 1 lives and the property damage caused by the Brisbane floods early last year. The Australian Government gave generous help to the victims of this flood, but we want to ensure that such need does not arise again. The Premier of Queensland asked for our help and, in the spirit of co-operative federalism which has been the mark of my ministry, I sought Cabinet approval to amend the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 so that help could be provided. The Bill makes provision for $450,000 to be spent on flood mitigation works in Brisbane this financial year. Subject to parliamentary approval, further funds will be made available as work proceeds in future years. 
I might mention that this is the first major Australian Government contribution to flood mitigation in urban areas. In the main, previous assistance has been limited to rural areas. I have just mentioned co-operative federalism and in this respect I refer the House to clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill. In clause 12 (4) of the Albury-Wodonga Area Development Agreement made between Australia, New South Wales and Victoria in 1973, the Australian Government undertook to defer repayment of loans made to those States, when the growth centre programs had not generated sufficient income to cover the States' commitments on loans to the growth centre. Clause 3 of the Bill enables this provision to be deemed a condition of loans made for AlburyWodonga. The situation has not arisen but if it does in the future the undertaking will be met. Clause 4 of the Bill will permit the Australian Government to enter into similar arrangements in respect of land commission and other growth centre programs. These provisions will begin operation on the date of the principal Act. Although section 5 (3) of the Act does enable the review and subsequent amendment of the terms of a financial agreement, the amendment set out in clause 4 of the Bill will enable direct provision for such circumstances to be included in a financial agreement with a State. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to clear any legal obstacles to the appointment of the Commissioner of the National Capital Development Commission,  Mr A.  J. W. Powell, as  Chairman  of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. The Government's decision to appoint  Mr Powell  to the office was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 12 March this year. The position of  Chairman  of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission is a part-time office for which remuneration may be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. The terms of section 8(2)(a) of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957-73 do not permit the Commissioner or Associate Commissioner to 'engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office ' without a real threat of disqualification from office. This is so whether or not remuneration is paid in respect of the additional duties. 
This Bill amends the National Capital Development Commission Act to remove any doubt concerning  Mr Powell's  appointment. It also makes the way clear for the Associate Commissioners to assist  Mr Powell  with the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. The Bill also includes a number of formal amendments relating to such matters as audit, remuneration and allowances. This updates these provisions in the Act and brings them into line with similar clauses in other legislation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I present to the House the Australian Heritage Bill. The Bill gives legislative substance to the National Estate, a noble concept which has been identified by the Australian Government and enshrined in a notable report. I want to look more closely at the the philosophy of the National Estate later in my speech. In these preliminary remarks I want to stress that the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the Department of Environment will jointly administer the great task of preserving and enhancing the National Estate. The Australian Heritage Commission will be the principal tool to achieve this fine aim. 
In broad terms the aims of this Bill are these: To set up an Australian Heritage Commission on a broad and representative basis to advise the Government and the Parliament on the condition of the National Estate and how it should be protected; to establish and maintain a register of the things that make up the National Estate; to require that the Australian Government, its departments and agencies, and those acting on its behalf, respect the National Estate and do all that they can to preserve it. Against this broad statement of the aims of the Bill, I want to set out briefly its history. In April 1973, the Australian Government set up a committee of inquiry under  Mr Justice  Hope. It was given the task of investigating and reporting to the Government on the nature and condition of the National Estate, and the ways in which all bodies in Australia- both Government and non-government- could work together to preserve and enhance it. The other members of the Committee were Reginald Walker, Milo Dunphy, Judith WrightMcKinney, Len Webb, David Yencken, Keith Vallance and Judith Mary Brine. 
The committee began its work at the end of May 1973. It was asked to view the National Estate as made up of such things as national parks, nature reserves, historic buildings and structures, buildings and structures of architectural merit, areas of special scientific interest, the coastline and inland waters, and urban parks. The Government sought from the committee for the first time in Australian history an inventory of our natural and man-made heritage. In accounting terms, we set out to list the great assets of our heritage and balance them against the liabilities that had debased their value. As well as this inventory we wanted a report on the present condition of the items listed and recommendations on how they might be protected and enhanced. While this committee was being formed and while it was conducting its inquiries, the Government has embarked on a series of new policies which had an important impact on the National Estate. These included the development of growth centres such as Albury-Wodonga, Geelong, and Bathurst-Orange, building urban public transports within our major cities, the setting up of land commissions, sewerage programs, area improvement programs, and a number of other closely inter-connected programs. It also included programs to ensure that environment protection was the key part of the decisions of the Government, and it started a wide range of programs for the rational management of Australian land, air, water, and biological resources. 
All of these programs involved land-use strategies and all had crucial bearing on the National Estate. For this reason the Government accepted that it had to give an early token of its firmness and determination to protect our heritage. Before the Hope Committee had completed its work we had approved grants of more than $2m to organisations including State and local governments to meet urgent needs for the National Estate. In the 1973-74 financial year grants were given for urgent work including the acquisition of land for urban parks, restoring historic buildings, and studies of land use patterns and land ownership in areas under pressure from urban and industrial development. Other grants initiated programs to acquire land for nature conservation purposes, to begin a basic set of studies including an ecological survey of Australia, a study of soil resources, a study of water quality and a project to set up a national air quality program. 
The experience we gained reaffirmed our belief that it was urgent for the Australian Government to work with the States, local government and voluntary groups to guard our heritage. In April 1974 the Hope Committee presented its draft report after considering more than 650 submissions and travelling widely throughout Australia to see and assess the National Estate. The findings and recommendations of the draft report were announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in April last year and I tabled the final report in this House on 19 September last year. I do not want to go into the content of the report in any detail. Its central theme is well set out in this brief extract: 
The Australian Government has inherited a National Estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. All previous priorities accepted at various levels of Government and authority have been directed by a concept that uncontrolled development, economic growth, and 'progress', and the encouragement of private as against pubhe interest in land use, use of waters, and indeed in every part of the National Estate, was paramount. 
The report confirmend that this Government was the first to make a commitment to charting the National Estate and conserving it for the Australians of the future. Immediately the draft recommendations were known, the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  and I set out to give life to the Government's plans to protect and enhance the National Estate. We appointed an Interim Committee on the National Estate to help with financial assistance programs and to advise on matters arising from the Hope Report. These included the setting up of a permanent body. The Interim Committee made was made up of 17 members, including scientists, architects, and senior public servants. This Interim Committee met for the first time on 18 September 1974. Its work has ensured that the Hope report was not left to gather dust on the shelf, as has been done with so many reports in the past by previous governments. It has worked with enthusiasm to implement the many far-reaching recommendations of the Hope report. We have asked the Interim Committee to supply us with a report of its work which will be tabled for the information of the Parliament. 
The main achievement of the Interim Committee has been the setting up of the framework within which the new Heritage Commission will work. I want to acknowledge its assistance in setting down the principles, and administrative arrangements that are included in this BUI. The Committee has also done fine work on the development of a financial assistance program for 1974-75. This gave the Government the encouragement to press on with setting up a permanent body that would ensure a regular flow of assistance from the Australian Government for National Estate projects. Earlier this year we announced a program of grants to all States of approximately $6m. These were based on recommendations of the Interim Committee. 
The Committee has also advised the Minister for Environment on the implementation of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act under which $9m was spent this financial year. Grants made under the National Estate program must be seen as a supplement to the resources of the States, State bodies such as the National Trust, local government bodies and voluntary organisations. We do not want to supplant private effort or the work of other levels of government; we want to supplement them and assist them in every way. 
Grants made on the recommendations of the Interim Committee have been used to acquire land and buildings, to restore historic property and to provide programs of public education. Grants have also been made for a number of individual projects of great merit which come under no broad heading. An example is the recovery of artifacts from the historic 'Batavia' shipwreck on the coast of Western Australia. The National Estate program must be seen in the whole context of Government policies for the environment and urban and regional development. Last year Parliament approved the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act which sets out the broad framework into which many of the Government's programs fit. Under the authority of that Act, my Department has worked to set up work programs in the States, as a fully co-ordinated exercise in urban development within a land use strategy. This strategy recognises the contribution that each of the individual programs makes to better urban amenity and community standards. 
The Bill before the House sets out the arrangements proposed by the Government for the permanent organisation to preserve and enhance the National Estate. It also supplements several other Acts of Parliament, including the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, The National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act, the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act and proposed legislation to create a Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. It would include the permanent heads of up to 6 Australian Government departments. The aim in setting up a commission of this sort would be to ensure that all interests were represented and given the chance to advise the Government. In making appointments to the Commission, regard will be paid to the role of other governments and the work of voluntary conservation groups. The Commission will advise the Government on all matters relating to the National Estate, including the financial grants which I referred to earlier. It will make reports to the Government and these will be tabled in Parliament. The views of the community on National Estate issues will be channelled to the Government through this Commission which, I cannot stress too often, will work closely with other levels of Government in a co-operative way and with voluntary bodies. 
When I tabled the National Estate report in this House, I noted that it suggested a number of new roles for the Australian Government. These included land use planning, conservation and reservation techniques, the impact of mining, forestry and coastal development. The report recommended the setting up of a national register of sites of historic and scientific interest. The Bill places with the Commission the compilation of national registers for the National Estate. The registers will identify items of National Estate quality so the planning of future public works programs can be assessed in terms of impact on the National Estate. The Bill requires that Ministers and Australian Government agencies look at the impact of their activities on the National Estate, and give the Heritage Commission the chance to comment. It provides for ministers and agencies to go ahead only after looking at alternatives, and planning to remove or to minimise any possible harm to a part of the National Estate. The inclusion of items in the National Register is a significant action in terms of future planning of public works programs. The Act will provide for notification of intention to include items in the National Register and for the Commission to consider comments and objections to this intention. 
The other provisions of the Bill relate to the machinery aspects of the Commission's work. I draw particular attention to the authority proposed for the Commission to accept gifts or bequests. Private individuals and organisations may wish to give property or other items of National Estate quality to the Commission, and the Bill provides for this. It is important to note that the Australian Government cannot work effectively in isolation to protect and enhance the National Estate. We need the generous cooperation of State and local governments in pressing on with our National Estate policies. We would hope that the State governments will enact legislation that will supplement our national initiative. This would provide a complete set of laws that would guard against the wilful and mindless pillaging of our National Estate. 
Finally, I want to refer briefly to my own personal philosophy and my personal satisfaction in putting this Bill to the House. The National Estate was a concept which I devised and publicised in the days when I was a spokesman on the environment and urban and regional affairs for the Labor Party in Opposition. During the years between 1969 and 1972,I put particular stress on identifying the National Estate and promoting it as a key part of Labor Party policy. The Prime Minister's policy speech on behalf of the Labor Party in December 1972 promised that a Labor Government would enhance and preserve the National Estate. As a Government we have acted swiftly to discharge the mandate given us to identify, conserve and preserve the National Estate. We set up the Hope Committee, we acted on its recommendations, we started programs of financial assistance for the National Estate, and now we are setting up this Commission. A key part of our attitudes to the National Estate is the rejection of the widelyheld notion that this is a middle class issue, that it has no relevance to most of the people. The forces which threaten the National Estate often bear most heavily on the less affluent groups. Poorer people suffer most intensely from the loss of National Estate features such as the parkland, familiar town and country scapes, even dwellings. They feel in much stronger measure the withering away of the physical environment into ugly and barren patterns. I give as one example the impact of the Blue Mountains Escarpment on the far western suburbs of Sydney. These are not urban areas graced by visual richness. For a number of reasons their development has destroyed the natural features of the Australian landscape without substituting any of the gentler features of urban life. 
The main contact the hundreds of thousands of people in these suburbs have with our Australian heritage is the Blue Mountains escarpment. This feature of great natural beauty is clearly visible in much of the western part of Sydney. There is no other feature of natural or manmade beauty of the same quality in this vast part of the Sydney metropolitan area. Yet the escarpment is in constant danger of scarring by poorly planned development from both the public and private sectors. I have no doubt that the previous Government, with its defence establishments at Lapstone, certainly had a great deal to do with the scarring of the escarpment. Imposing this sort of blight on the escarpment would be a tragic loss to a large part of the population of Sydney. 
I am sure this example can be multiplied many times from other cities and regions throughout Australia. Deprived community groups have not the same access as the wealthy to other sources of personal enjoyment and fulfilment. This is why it is often the less affluent who are most active in working to protect the best features of our heritage. The pillage and neglect of the National Estate diminishes us all in equal measures. 
I also want to stress that we will seek the support of people of goodwill whatever their background to protect the National Estate and beat the bulldozer mentality that has disfigured our environment for so many years and particularly during the last quarter of a century when the Opposition was in Government. It had such negative policies. We will work with all who want to protect those parts of our heritage that have been created by man or nature and are unique or are things of beauty. 
For this reason, the Government has been gratified by the support of some Opposition members for the concept of the National Estate and the programs we have begun to preserve and enhance it. I am sure we can work together to preserve things and places of great beauty for all Australians and for the Australians who follow us. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 5 ( 1 ) of the Parliament Act 1 974 1 present documents relating to a proposal for the erection of 4 police guard boxes within the parliamentary zone. On the next day of sitting I propose to give notice of a motion seeking the approval of the House to the proposal under the terms of the Parliament Act 1974. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present 14 agreements in relation to the provision of financial assistance to New South Wales, Victoria, Western Australia and Tasmania. This is an example of co-operation in Australian and State government relationships. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 58 which I gave on 10 April 1975. (Hansard, page 1570). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 86 which I gave on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 
1559) . 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 297 which I gave on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1570). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 383 which I gave on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 
1560) . 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 1 148 which I gave on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1562). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 1590 which I gave on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1572). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 1732 which I gave on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1572). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to question No. 1734 which I gave on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 
1572) . 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to question No. 1735 which I gave on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1573) . 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' (Question No. 2259) 
For the information of honourable members I present an urban paper prepared by Claire Wagner, an officer of the Department of Urban and Regional Development, entitled 'Rural Retreats'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Report of the Interim Committee on the National Estate dated May 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
1 support the transport policies being developed jointly by the Department of the Capital Territory and the NCDC aimed at providing an efficient public transport system for Canberra. 
-Yes, I do believe that we would need that increase in expenditure if we are to carry out our programs. All of us in this Government recognise that Cabinet will be examining our programs. Whether or not I will get my slice of the cake will be determined by a collective decision of the members of Cabinet. 
Pursuant to section 32(B) of the Albury-Wodonga Development Act 1973, I present the first annual report of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The Government agrees with the intention of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  The Government proposes a slightly different amendment, as follows: 
In sub-clause (1), in the definition of 'place', omit paragraphs (b) and (c), substitute the following paragraphs: 
a building or other structure (which may include equipment, furniture, fittings and articles associated with or connected with); and 
a group of buildings or other structures (which may include equipment, furniture, fittings and articles associated with or connected with); '. 
Let me say that it was this Government that acquired the fittings, equipment and furniture of the Palace Hotel in Perth in order to protect them. I am asking the Opposition to withdraw its amendment and to accept the Government's amendment. We accept the intention of the Opposition in putting forward its amendment. 
I wish to point out to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  that the rain forests are already covered under clause 4. That includes the Blue Mountains and the Colo River. Clause 4 also covers the Parramatta cemetery. The honourable member knows that to a great extent he is talking about areas of responsibility of the State Government, which happens to be of the same political complexion as his own. But be that as it may, we realise the only way to solve these problems is by co-operation between the Australian Government and the State governments. I do not want to curtail discussion on this matter, but there is no disagreement on clause 4. We want to pass this Bill through the House tonight and I ask the cooperation of the Opposition in keeping the debate short. 
For the information of honourable members I present an urban paper prepared by Professor Henry Maddick entitled Education and Training of Local Government Administrators in Australia '. 
I move: 
After clause 7, insert the following new clause:- 7A. The Commission shall, in the performance of its functions in relation to any matter, and so far as it considers appropriate having regard to the nature of the matter, consult with Departments and authorities of the States, local government authorities and community and other organisations. '. 
The amendment relates to consultation with the States. It reflects the history of administration in my ministry and in the portfolio of the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass).  Accordingly I propose the amendment because it will place in the legislation our commitment to consultation. The amendment indicates that we and the new Commission will consult not only with the States but also with local government and the general community. 
I shall answer the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  first The Acts of the respective State governments are the means of acquisition that have been used up to date and, no doubt, that will be used in the future. With regard to scientific fact, it is not our intention to by-pass the States. I think we stress in clause 7 (a)- the new clause- that what we want to do is to work in close cooperation with the States. Concerning Hallett Cove, it is an area of recognised scientific importance. Even if it were not, if it were just a part of the coastline, the coastscape should be protected. Might I tell the 2 honourable members from South Australia, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  that it would be very wise for those ultraconservative forces of the Adelaide Club that dominate the Upper House of South Australia to give a little more power to the planning authorities in South Australia in order that they themselves might carry out some authority under the planning authorities without having to acquire everything. If we bought all the land surrounding Hallett Cove it would cost $2m. We have tried to recognise that there is an enormous amount of work to be done in a short time in the National Estate because, as the honourable member for Sturt and the honourable member for Gwydir would realise, for 23 years the Government which they supported did nothing to try to protect the National Estate. In the first 2 years that we were in Government, only $2m was made available. Even that could not be spent in the first financial year because of the democratic process we have to go through of acting through the States, local government, national trusts and other conservation groups. All of the $8m made available in the second year has not been spent in the time available. A project to cost $2m would cancel out so many others. We have had something like 1 100 applications. Determinations have had to be made. We allocated $5,000 and engaged consultants to carry out a study in Hallett Cove. The report will be available within the next day or two and I think an important statement will be made within a week by the Minister for the Environment  (Dr Cass)  and myself and the South Australian Minister for the Environment regarding certain action that we will be taking in Hallett Cove. 
But there are other ways in which we want to try to alleviate the problem of Hallett Cove, that is, by trying to get co-operation with the South Australian Land Commission. Even under that proposal a grant to acquire land would not be a 100 per cent grant by the Federal Government; 66% per cent would be provided by the Federal Government and that would have to be matched by 33% per cent from the States. The States may have some problems in finding their money. We are trying to do something to stop the bad development that is occurring. If the honourable member for Sturt who criticised us is as sincere as he sounded, it is about time he got off his tail and got stuck into those conservative forces in the Upper House which will not give real power of planning to the South Australian Government. It is atrocious- if I can use the word, it is quite criminal- to think that in this day and age private developers can cany on the type of development they have done in South Australia, particularly near Hallett Cove. 
I turn now to Parramatta. I have noted the points raised. Parramatta is a cradle of our nation. It is a place where great treasures are available. I say to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  who sits on the back bench, that when I used to sit on the back bench I tried for years to get the Australian Government to do something about this area. I was elected to Parliament in 1958 and in the early 1960s I commenced to agitate against, firstly, the Menzies Government, then the Holt Government, then the Gorton Government and then the McMahon Government, to try to get some money to restore the oldest dwelling in Australia, Elizabeth Farm cottage, built in 1793. Despite long agitation the heartless governments of those days did not make one penny available for the National Estate. This year the Government will start by making $10,000 available to be spent on restoring Elizabeth Farm. We do not think that any more than that could be spent in one financial year. We have given something like $100,000 to acquire land around the experimental farm cottage. I could spell out item after item on which the Government and the National Trust consider money should be spent. We hold the National Trust in high esteem. We have not only made $55,000 available to its Federal body but we have also made $20,000 available to each of the State bodies to strengthen those organisations. A great deal of our work will be done through the National Trust. At least one person from New South Wales who was on the Committee which inquired into the National Estate is now on the interim committee. There may be others. We hold the National Trust in very high esteem. 
Some people want to make bequests to organisations. This legislation gives them the power to make bequests to the nation. There has been a suggestion that one side will take over. To avoid that we are making sure that the majority of people in this Commission will not be bureaucrats, if I may use the term. Even though 6 departmental heads will sit on this Commission the majority of members will be outside people. I have no doubt that at all times they will protect not only whatever may be bequeathed to the nation but also the interests of the voluntary bodies. One thing we have found in this whole inquiry is that problems are not solved by pushing a button in Canberra. We have to work together through the Australian, State and local governments, with the local organisations, with the conservation groups, with the National Trust, of course, and even with private firms because only together can we solve this problem and protect the National Estate from the bulldozer mentality that functioned for so long under the 23 years in office of the party which the honourable member for Parramatta represents. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 1 1 
1 ) The Commission shall consist of not fewer than 12 nor more than 19 members, namely- 
the Chairman; 
not more than 6 Commissioners each of whom is the Permanent Head of a Depanment or the  Chairman  of an authority of Australia; and 
not more than 1 2 other Commissioners. 
The Commissioners, other than the representative Commissioners' shall be persons having qualifications relevant to, or special experience or interest in, a field related to the functions of the Commission. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  cannot be accepted by the Government. I give the following reasons: The listing of places in the National Estate register is intended as a means of bringing to the attention of Ministers and agencies of the Australian Government the existence of those National Estate places so that Ministers and agencies can give the necessary degree of care and protection to them when engaging in activities of the Australian Government. 
The act of including places on the National Estate register cannot directly disadvantage the owners of such places. Many of the places that will be recorded on the National Estate register are already recorded by National Trust bodies in the States. In the States, listings on the National Trust registers do not carry the right to compensation. I stress that point. The listing of these places on the National Trust registers of the States does not carry any right to compensation on the basis of that registration. 
The act of including these places on the National Estate register does not impose any duty on the owners of those places. Even with the Victorian Housing Building Act recently passed -I commend that Act to honourable members; I hope other States follow that example by introducing similar Acts- in which duties to care are imposed on owners of property listed in the Historical Buildings Act Register, no automatic right of compensation applies. The Act provides discretion to the Minister to deal with the owners as he sees fit. 
In essence, the position of the National Estate register is that it is an inventory designed to record places of National Estate quality. The thrust of the Bill is. towards the actions of the Australian Government- not towards the imposition of constraints on the owners of such National Estate places. I wish to make that point perfectly clear. Frankly, even in this day and age there are still Australian Government agencies that are making mistakes. I do not want to itemise one in particular here, but recently in Hobart I believe there was a very bad case where an Australian Government department acquired what I would think was part of the National Estate to build an Australian Government building. Quite frankly, I do not think that action should ever have been taken. 
This Commission will exercise its role only as a last resort. Certainly, its intervention will always be very delicate. I know that honourable members opposite always seem to defend the socalled rights of people who own the land involved. They must always keep in mind that, when land is acquired by public authority, it is acquired in the interests of the people, and the interests of those holding the land should not be the only factor to be considered. Sometimes people who alone own land are guilty of great selfishness. I know that some people who own land in so-called or proposed growth centres believe they are sitting on a gold mine. But we should not forget that any gold for those people at the end of such a rainbow must be paid for in the long-term by the Australian people. Therefore, justice must be done to the people acquiring land as well as to those people who own the land. 
-The city of Knox was part of a preferred area suggested by the Victorian Government in 2 programs. One of the programs was the urban land program which is similar to the land commission programs that have been entered into by the Australian Government with other State governments. The second program was a proposal by the Victorian Government that the Australian Government should make available approximately $90m to assist private developers to service land. We advised the Victorian Government that we were unable to make the money available at this stage because, as honourable members know, we have an internal deficit of about $ 1,700m this financial year. Even though we are receiving criticism from Liberal forces- both State and Federal- about our deficit Budget, they are still seeking more funds to increase that deficit. Unfortunately, the backlog in the servicing of urban land in both Sydney and Melbourne places those cities in a difficult position. It has been the policies of the previous Federal Government and the present Victorian Government which have allowed this situation to develop. We have tried to catch up with the backlog of serviced land. This year we have made available about $34m to the Victorian Government to try to catch up with the sewerage backlog. We made approximately $llm available in our first year in office. This had never been done before by an Australian Government. 
On the positive side, added to our sewerage program we have been able to enter into an agreement with the Victorian Government to make $ 12.5m available this year to the Urban Land Council which will be able to acquire land in urban areas. In the coming Budget money will be made available to allow that land to be serviced. Under the same program we have made available to the Victorian Government $3.5m for the purchase of open space land on the Mornington Peninsula. We believe that this is the best approach to solve the urban land problem in Victoria in the long term. It will take time because there are no overnight solutions to the backlog of serviced land which occured under the administration of the previous Government and under the present administration of the Victorian Government. It is only this Australian Government that has been able to move into urban areas. In the past, Australian governments have turned their backs on urban communities. They have permitted cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, to get into their present bad condition. It was the voters in the cities of Sydney and Melbourne who helped us win the election in 1972. We also increased our vote in May of 1974. Because of the positive policies that our Government has taken not only in relation to land and sewerage programs but also to land use programs and urban public transport programs in these 2 cities, the Whitlam Government will be returned at the next election. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The submission from the Save the Regent Theatre Committee has not yet been considered other than in general terms. The proposal falls within the scope of the Government's National Estate policies and consideration in that context will be necessary. 
Essentially the matter of the future of the Regent Theatre rests with the Victorian State authorities. The Victorian Branch of the National Trust has recently reinstated the Regent Theatre on its 20th Century register and as the importance of this building is now recognised, every effort should be made to prevent its destruction. I believe Victorian State authorities are currently discussing the future of the Regent Theatre and the Australian Government will be guided in its attitude to the project, by the results of these discussions. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer  Mr Snedden  to my reply to Question No. 567 ( Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 5860). In this reply I indicated that my Department is currently examining the possibility of publishing a directory or directories of organisations based on the information contained on its computerised list of groups involved in urban and regional development, which also serves as a mailing list for the Department's monthly news magazine Community. 
I would be pleased to arrange for  Mr Snedden  to inspect a print-out of the general mailing list. If a decision is made to proceed with one or more directories of organisations and groups on the mailing list, the results will be made available to him. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (i) Street lighting is authorised and paid for by each constituent local council having regard to funds available. Within these limitations county councils are providing what they consider to be a satisfactory level of street lighting for urban areas within their jurisdiction. Bearing in mind the variations required due to differences in traffic densities, population clusters and other factors county councils consider any attempt to quote an actual percentage of streets with an adequate level of lighting would be an almost impossible task and would have doubtful meaning. 
The area covered by the St George and Sydney County Councils are fully developed and there are no areas where street lighting is not provided. In regard to the county councils where new suburban development is taking place, lighting is erected concurrently with the street reticulation mains. The usual practice is to erect street lighting at the time the electricity supply system is being reticulated through each area. The lights are then energised when the constituent council considers that building development warrants such action. 
In relation to the Australian Capital Territory the National Capital Development Commission advises that for the twelve months ended 30 June 1974 the sum expended towards street lighting and ancillary works in Canberra was $1,062,875. In their view residential streets in Canberra are provided with adequate street lighting and as a general rule residential streets in new suburbs are progressively provided with street lighting during residential occupancy of an area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to question No. 1729 which I gave on 15 April, 1975. (Hansard, page 1650). 
Inter-departmental Committees (Question No. 2121) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have reservations about making freely available a mailing list that has partly grown through individuals and organisations writing to the Department asking for copies of Community and other Departmental publications. 
I have however written to  Mr Snedden  repeating an invitation I made in response to an earlier question from  Mr McLeay  (No. 1416) for him to inspect a print-out of the mailing list, which, as he is aware, contains several thousand addresses. 
If a decision is made by my Department to proceed with the project to publish a directory or directories of organisations and groups contacted regularly through this mailing list, the results will be made available to  Mr Snedden. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
) There were approximately 700 (seven hundred) applications from voluntary organisations, local government bodies and private individuals for National Estate assistance under the 1973-74 Program. 
A total of 854 (eight hundred and fifty four) applications was received for the1974-75 National Estate Program: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have received the Rudman report on Hallett Cove and I will be tabling it after question time. I have had discussions with the relevant South Australian Minister,  Mr Broomhill  The report recommends that further land should be acquired. Both the South Australian Minister and myself have agreed - 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the investigation of the scientific, environmental and social issues relating to urban development in the Hallett Cove area of South Australia as commissioned under the National Estate program. Due to the limited number of copies available, a reference copy of this report has been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
'LEISURE-AN INAPPROPRIATE CONCEPT FOR WOMEN' 
I agree with the Special Minister of State that a great deal of inefficiency exists in local government, insofar as many of the local government bodies are small units that should be amalgamated into larger units so that we could have a much more efficient organisation. If honourable members read the report of the Barnett Committee, which was set up by a conservative government of New South Wales, they will see that it indicates that that is the situation. But local government has had a very difficult struggle because, as honourable members know, from 1950 to 1970 whereas the Australian Government's internal servicing debt remained practically static, the State government's debt increased sevenfold, that of local government increased by some 2000 per cent, and the debt for semi-government authorities- that is, the sewerage undertakings- increased by some 2800 per cent. This has thrown an enormous burden on local government and semi-government authorities particularly. The Australian Government of that period, of which the honourable member was a supporter, never went to the aid of local government or semi-government authorities. Only under this Government have we started to try to assist them in that way. We have given assistance to local government, particularly through the Grants Commission, which is a quasijudicial authority and comes under the direct jurisdiction of the Special Minister of State. We have given assistance through other mediums, through the Department of Social Services, through the Department of Tourism and Recreation, and certainly through my own Department and, as far as we are concerned, we are out to try to lift the efficiency of local government, working in co-operation. However, let me say that I do not want to start name-calling anybody in local government, the States, or anywhere else. I want to see them working together in co-operation, which is necessary if we are to solve those problems. 
I support the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I do not wish to delay the House. Many of the things said by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who has moved an amendment, are arguable. There is in many respects bad accommodation, particularly for private members. We, now on this side of the House, suffered that problem for many long, weary years. We understand that problem and also the situation facing Cabinet Ministers, because the standard of accommodation is poor, even for them. 
I think that other proposals should be looked at. I do not think that the consideration of such alternatives is the role of this proposed Committee. I give the honourable member for New England an undertaking that we will consider those aspects and report to the Parliament on them. Therefore, I ask the House to support the Prime Minister's motion which was introduced because we really wish to get moving on the work connected with the new and permanent parliament house. A great deal of thought has been put into this matter. Wherever possible, we have tried to maintain a balance between the needs of the 2 Houses. I know that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  have been greatly interested in this subject for it was you, as the honourable member for Burke, who moved the original . motion to get this proposal under way. I hope that all honourable members will support the Prime Minister's motion. I indicate that, even though we reject the amendment, we will look into the arguments put forward by the honourable member for New England. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1730 appeared in Hansard (page 960) on 28 February 1 975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1749 appeared in Hansard (page 960) on 28 February 1975. 
The Government has no commitment in this respect. The nomination of the Returned Services League of Australia was considered by Cabinet. It made its decision. At no time was there any commitment by the Government to the RSL. That is a falsity. 
I move: 
1 ) That the modifications of the Senate be disagreed to. 
That a message be sent to the Senate requesting reconsideration by the Senate of the resolution in respect of the modifications disagreed to. 
For too long now this Parliament has paid lipservice to the long standing goal of building a permanent Parliament House in Canberra. Once again we are on the way to being diverted from this main role. The time has come for immediate action. The Senate has transmitted a message to us today which contains an Opposition amendment seeking to add a further term of reference to the terms of reference of the proposed Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House and thus add to the Committee's task. The effect of this amendment will be to put the Committee under immediate pressure to resolve the very difficult question of accommodation in the present House. This can only mean that the special client committee will be diverted from its primary task, that is, to build the new Parliament House on Capital Hill as soon as possible. This is a goal for which we all are striving- a permanent Parliament House to serve parliamentary democracy in Australia. This is the important point we must now consider and resolve. 
To reassure all honourable members on both sides of the Parliament that the unsatisfactory accommodation situation at present in the House is not being neglected, I point to the existence of the Joint House Committee whose role it is to examine questions such as that raised in the Senate amendment. It would be an appropriate task for this Committee to decide as soon as possible on which departments and people could be removed from the House to ensure that the members of the Parliament have adequate facilities to carry out their elected duties until the new Parliament House is built. 
For these reasons the Government intends to oppose the amendment. It hopes that the Senate sees the wisdom of this and accepts the resolution of appointment as first proposed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  This will mean that we can get on with the job of building a new and permanent Parliament House without any further delay. 
The answer to the first question is no; the answer to the second question is no; the answer to the third question is no. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
(1)- 
The National Estate Program does make nonrepayable grants available to non-government bodies to provide assistance to preserve important parts of the cultural and natural heritage of Australia. For further details on grants to individuals or nongovernment bodies I refer the honourable member to my reply to question No. 86 which appeared in the Hansard of 10 April 1975 at page 1559. 
, (c) and (d) no financial assistance is provided to individuals or non-government bodies in these ways. 
National Estate Grants. Advertisements calling for applications for these grants are placed in the national press each year and general publicity is sought on thenational estate through thenational press. The grants were also advertised in the handbook on Australian Government Assistance to Local Government Projects published by my Department. The Report of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate was circulated to interested persons and groups who made formal submissions to the Inquiry. Since then the Report of the Interim Committee has been circulated widely to conservation bodies and interested groups. During 1974-1975, 1136 applications for grants were received in my Department. 
Urban Affairs Fellowships, when available, are advertised in the press and within tertiary institutions. Assistance made available in the other cases referred to were the result of separate application. 
My Department is producing a handbook on Australian Government financial assistance available to Local Governments, voluntary organisations and community groups, which 1 expect to become available at the end of August this year. This handbook is along the lines of the handbook produced last year by my Department on financial assistance from the Australian Government available to local government. While it will not encompass the entire range of matters raised by the Honourable Member in parts (1 ) and (2) of his question it is hoped that it will be of considerable help to bodies seeking information about available assistance. 
Aborigines: Discussions with Ministers  (Question No.  1829) 
Last year the allocation in the Budget for the national sewerage program was $95m for the whole of Australia. Subsequently a further $15m was made available to assist the unemployment situation. Therefore the States received $110m last year. The total of $1 15m allocated in this year's Budget does meet the inflationary situation, as the rate was about 17 per cent last year. The Cabinet looked at the allocation of funds for the sewerage program and it was determined that within the budgetary context that was the maximum amount of money that could be made available. It is all right for conservative forces on the other side to criticise this Government for holding back public works programs; we will listen tonight to the Leader of the Opposition putting forward his alternative proposals. The Australian Government has been responsible. It sought to retain an overall deficit of about $2,500m or an internal deficit of about $2,000m. It was on that basis that the Australian Government framed its policies. 
The conservative forces ought to examine the situation in connection with the sewerage program. It was during the 23 years of rule by those forces on the other side that the sewerage backlog occurred, with more than half of the people of Perth and more than one in seven families in Sydney and Melbourne living in unswered residences in the 1 970s. It was those forces that allowed that situation to accrue. It was those forces that allowed a situation to occur in which for every dollar received by sewerage authorities the interest burden represented 50c in Perth, 52c in Sydney and 58c in Melbourne. It was the Hamer Government and governments that were representative of people of the Opposition that allowed us to get into that situation. The Leader of the Labor Party, when in Opposition, said that he would try to meet the commitment within 6 years. Within the Government we have tried to taper the situation to make sure that we carry out the servicing of our sewerage program by 1982. We may have to curtail the program even further. That is one of the options at which the Australian Government is looking. The terms on which money has been made available to all the State governments for their sewerage programs are more favourable than any terms that have been given to any semi-government or local government authority ever before. Not only has this $1 15m been made available from this year's Budget, whereas $95m was made available last financial year, but 30 per cent is made available by way of grant and 70 per cent is made available by way of loans at the long term bond rate. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report titled: 'Australian Government Assistance to Local Projects'. 
I do not want to comment on the speech made by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  but one really must understand that there is a world recession of the system under which we live. It is the system that is failing. Every honourable member in this House should be concerned with the unemployment in this country and members on this side are aware of it. But this situation' does not exist in this country alone. It is the fault of the system. We have to learn to understand the system and to try to find out how to rectify that system. The system under which we live is epitomised by countries such as the United States of America and Great Britain. In the United States there are over 9 million unemployed. In Britain at present there are over 1.25 million unemployed and in France there are 1 million. It is the system which has to be understood. Unless honourable members recognise that, they will never solve the problem. 
I want to devote the main thrust of my remarks to the strategy adopted by the Government in drawing up this important Budget. In particular I want to look at what we are trying to achieve with our spending program. This will allow me to conclude by looking at the development of our urban and regional development budget. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his speech on the Budget on Tuesday  night made a number of grossly misleading statements about our urban and regional development programs. I do not want to waste the time of the House rebutting bis false claims. I have issued a detailed statement which covers the matters raised, and I seek permission of the House to have this included in  Hansard. 
Press Release 
Minister for Urban and Regional Development 
For Release 
Wednesday, 27 August 1975 
I thank the House. Our broad Budget strategy must be to promote the maximum rate of economic recovery, but at the same time we must ensure that the recovery is one which can be sustained. We do not want a recovery that will peter out in 12 months time because of the resurgence of inflation. How to do this has faced us with a very difficult choice, and we have tried to strike the right balance. On the one hand, a tough deflationary Budget with a significantly lower deficit would almost certainly have choked off the present recovery. Government support continues to be essential with the upturn just beginning. On the other hand, the amount of stimulus which the Government can provide through its fiscal policy is basically limited to the problems of financing a large deficit. 
The financial implications of a larger Budget deficit would tend to be an over-expansion of the money supply. This would either add to the inflationary pressures in 9 to 12 months time or produce a significant increase in interest rates. Any major increase in interest rates of 2 or 3 per cent or more would be fatal for private investment, for housing, for State and semi-government loan programs and for urban and regional development programs across the board and would extend the problems of a great broad section of the people of Australia, particularly those on low and middle incomes. 
Frankly, if it were not for the financial implications I would be inclined to favour a greater stimulus from fiscal policy. I am particularly concerned that resources in the building and construction industry will remain under-employed during 1975-76. As I indicated in Budget Paper No. 9, in urban and regional development there is a good prospect that the present recovery in dwelling investment will continue at a reasonable rate. However, there will be no real increase in public demand. It may be some time before we see a pick-up in private investment demand for other buildings and civil engineering. Yet the Leader of the Opposition wants to cut the capital program still further. Does he stand for a further increase in unemployment.? If there were a further cut in capital works, the result would be further unemployment. 
In many respects it might be argued that a larger public works program would have been desirable. This difficulty, however, would have been in addition to the Budget deficit. In these difficult circumstances I consider that the Budget provides the maximum stimulus possible from the fiscal policy at this time. It provides the maximum stimulus consistent with encouraging and maintaining sustained long term economic growth and restraining inflation. However, we will be closely watching the development situation through the year. With my Department I will be on the alert to explore any moves which could speed up the private sector recovery in step with our objectives for urban and regional development. 
Having outlined the factors which determine the broad framework of the Budget, I direct attention to its structure. We have made a major effort to restrain the growth of public expenditure. Our policy in this year is to consolidate the reforms which have already been introduced through the major new measures we have taken with the programs of public expenditure in health, education and urban and regional development. Again I believe that we have struck the right balance and that this process of consolidation is proper at this time. What concerns me is the lack of perspective about the role of public spending in promoting the increased welfare of our community as shown in the responses of the Opposition. 
Firstly, there is the confusing suggestion that in some way the expansion of public spending under this Government has impeded the output of the private sector. Let me make it perfectly clear that in the last financial year, with resources under-employed- I stress the words 'with resources under-employed'- the expansion of the public sector can in no way have interfered with the output of the private sector. Over the last 10 years the proportion of spending by the Australian Government to total gross national expenditure remained remarkably stable at about 25 per cent. Last year, 1974-75, much of the increase in public spending against the economic cycle was on increased employment benefits, the Regional Employment Development scheme, finance for housing paid through the banks, some $ 150m paid as special advances, an increase in the expenditure on welfare housing between 1973-74 and last financial year of $200m, the payment of a loan of more than $400m to the Australian Wool Corporation, and the extra money provided to the States for employment purposes. If we discount that sort of spending and if our gross domestic product had grown at its normal growth of about 5 per cent, then the structural shift in resources from the private sector to the public sector under this Government would have been only about 2 per cent. That is to say, it would have risen from about 25 per cent of total expenditure to only 27 per cent. In no sense is that a major shift in resources. It is entirely in tune with the wishes of the Australian people when they voted for our Government and for the major programs by means of which we promised to make good the neglect of 23 years of mismanagement prior to 1972. 
In the current financial year the areas in which the Australian Government's expenditure will increase most rapidly are not in areas of our own direct expenditure; rather they are in the areas of assistance to State and local governments and to individuals through increased cash benefits. In both cases these payments Will increase by 32 per cent, compared with the average increase in the Australian Budget outlays this year of only 23 per cent. 
The Leader of the Opposition has not really taken the substantive issue in this Budget. He has not criticised the size of the deficit as being wrong, either in an upward or a downward direction. He has conveyed the strong impression that he accepts the level of the deficit. Despite that, the Leader of the Opposition has labelled the Budget as a colossal deception. There is no deception on our side. I have tried to make clear the facts about the growth in public expenditure, facts which the Opposition has deliberately confused. The Leader of the Opposition is concerned that this Budget Will make people more dependent on the Government. Let me remind the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues that the vast majority of Australians have always looked to the public sector to provide a wide range of basic community services. This Government inherited a backlog in basic community services, which we are committed to put right and which we Will continue to put right. Perhaps the Opposition is ashamed of the neglect by Liberal governments over 23 years in office to provide the basic urban infrastructure, such as roads, sewerage and urban public transport. 
The Leader of the Opposition has described the major reform of the Budget, the reform of the income tax system, as a confidence trick. How can it be a confidence trick for lower income earners and the family man who Will pay less tax? These are the people we are trying to help. There can be no deception when each claimant, whether rich or poor, gets exactly the same rebate for education expenses. Does the Leader of the Opposition really support the old system under which the wealthy with their children at the major private schools could obtain a rebate as high as 67c in the dollar while at the same time lower income earners got only 20c to 25c in the dollar- much less for each dollar spent on educating their children. We might also ask the Leader of the Opposition how long the broad mass of taxpayers should subsidise the wealthy through concessional deductions for insurance payments. These are the basic questions of equality and fairness and it is time that the burdens of tax policy were directed away from lower income earners and the family man, those who really need help in our community. These tax measures have done something to distribute the tax burden in a fairer way, and I welcome them. 
I turn now to the role of our policies on programs for urban and regional development. One of the major achievements of this Government is its recognition of a national responsibility for the development of our cities and our regions. As I have tried to make clear in my foreword to Budget Paper No. 9, the Australian Government has always tried to be involved in urban development. It has been involved through the delivery of some services for which it is responsible, through the location of its own activities, and through various other policies, such as its industry policy, monetary pOliCY and foreign investment policy. What we have done as a government is explicitly to recognise these interconnections. Everything is inter-connected, interrelated, in urban affairs. As a result we are working closely with the States to make the process of urban and regional development more effective, more equitable and more efficient. This has required major initiatives, such as the establishment of land commissions and the development of growth centre programs, in order to provide a base for our new approach to urban and regional development. Land commissions, urban land councils and our growth centres have now been properly established in all States except Queensland, and I am confident that we will reach an agreement with that State in the very near future. 
This year we are in a position to undertake a large program of works and provide development expenditure so as to increase the supply of urban land. In co-operation with my State colleagues I will soon announce further details of our land programs. Our land development policies Will continue to be supported by our policies for ensuring the basic infrastructure, including sewerage, drainage, roads and the provision of urban transport. An increase in the supply of land, achieved more equitably and more efficiently, is one of the key elements in reducing inflation. Honourable members opposite know that. In the past land speculation has been automatically profitable because of the limits on the supply of land. In this way it has under-pinned and expanded the whole dismal psychology of inflation. The attack we are making on this process is an important aspect of support for the overall Budget strategy. Our urban and regional development strategy is also aimed at improving the standards of amenities in particular regions, especially those areas which when compared with others are deficient in their share of services and opportunities. The problems of these deficient regions arise directly from the way urban and regional development has occurred in the past. The lack of co-ordination of community involvement and of money is a matter of national importance that this Government has recognised. 
The area improvement program chimes in with the Government's regional policies. The Leader of the Opposition would abolish this program. Why? Because it permits the involvement of local government and people at the grass roots. It was established as a way of involving people and organisations within the community directly in identifying, planning and implementing programs to improve the regions in which they live. Yet I repeat that this is one of the programs that the Opposition wants to abolish. 
The central areas of our cities are another example of the history of dismal neglect. A significant element in our policy is to pay particular attention to rehabilitating older residential and commercial areas of our major cities. Here our aim is twofold- firstly, to prevent the disruption of a lifestyle of thousands of people, particularly the old and the poor, by forcing them to the outer fringes of our cities; and, secondly, to prevent the added burden that such policies make on new infrastructure and transport. Again this is a program which the Opposition want to dismantle. These programs add up to the first attempt by an Australian government to tackle these problems directly and to do so in co-operation with and with the help of State and local government authorities. 
I have expressed the view over and over again that if we are to solve the problems of our urban communities it can be done only in co-operation with the Australian, State and local governments and the people working together. It is through closer co-ordination at the delivery level where the effects of our spending have their impact that an improved urban and regional environment and through it a better quality of life can be realised. Because of this I wish to emphasise again that in the long run our appraoch does not involve enormous expenditures on top of those which have always gone to urban and regional development through the public sector. It is in this context that we are able to accept a certain degree of consolidation in the current financial year following the major build up in 1 974-75. 
In my closing remarks I want to draw the attention of honourable members to a most important document. It is Budget Paper No. 9 on urban and regional development. It deals with the real reason why the Department of Urban and Regional Development was set up. It was set up to look at the economy not with a broad brush approach, as the Treasury does, or with what is called the macro-approach, but in more detail. It was set up to look into the real community and regional effect, to get down to the grass roots and to see where the real inefficiencies exist. The Department of Urban and Regional Development has worked co-operatively with State and local government and with the people to try to achieve this objective. Also it has worked strenuously to try to bring about a balanced Budget and to see that wherever possible the right priorities are established. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Substantial progress has been made by the Department of Urban and Regional Development on the question of examining the various taxation provisions that could be introduced to curb land speculation. During the course of this examination several obstacles have been encountered which include the constitutional problem of Federal, State and Local power to administer such taxes and devising measures to ensure that the tax is not passed on to the final purchasers of the land. 
The provisions that are under examination include: property taxes wealth taxes capital gains taxes betterment taxes, and withholding taxes 
The examination of these various provisions is an ongoing project of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. There is no specific proposal which I will seek to have implemented. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The statement of 13 January, 1974 to which the honourable member's question refers was concerned with speculation in rural land. As I mentioned in my statement this Government has been encouraging the State Governments to establish Land Commissions and institute land price stabilisation measures where appropriate. As the honourable member will now know Land Commissions or their equivalent, are being established in all States with the exception of Queensland. It is the joint intention of these States and the Australian Government to use these Bodies for the acquisition, assembly, development and disposal of land in potential Growth Areas. 
The right honourable member will know that it was my intention to introduce a capital gains tax with an associated tax on development gains the effect of which would have been to tax those speculators in land who acquire and hold land with the intention of making a profit out of its re-sale. In the event the Government decided not to proceed with this tax but I still remain convinced that some form of taxation of this nature is needed to deter would-be land speculators from winning unearned profits. 
I might also take the opportunity of drawing the right honourable member's attention to two publications which I have recently tabled. The first is entitled 'Urban Land: Problems and Policies' and discusses, amongst other things, various options for dealing with land price inflation and overcoming some of the difficulties in achieving urban planning objectives. This paper has received wide publicity. It is a discussion paper and, as I said in the foreword, I welcome reactions to it. 
The second paper is entitled 'Rural Retreats' and discusses the motives behind the current demand for retreats, their effect upon primary production and some of the associated economic aspects. It is intended to stimulate community contributions to policy-making in an area of vital importance. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
None. 
Does not apply. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer I provided in reply to Question No. 1736 which appears in today's  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The Government's scheme to allow tax deductibility of mortgage loan interest paid in 1974/75 (and subsequent years) commenced on January 1st of this year. The terms of the scheme ensure that the greatest benefits accrue to lower income earners. In relation to (b), taxation incentives are not necessarily the most appropriate instrument to promote urban rehabilitation and development particularly in regard to their lack of selectivity and their equity effects. However the Government does not preclude their use in consort with other measures available to it. 
The Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation is anxious to ensure that land development proceeds as quickly as possible. Contracts have been let and engineering works are well on the way on a residential sub-division in West Wodonga. This will provide approximately 400 fully serviced blocks over the next 12 months. 
The design of a further 600 block residential sub-division on the northern fringe of Albury has been completed and the Albury City Council's approval granted. The proposed estate has gone on public exhibition and tenders will be called later this month. 
The first industrial sub-divisions in Albury and Wodonga have now been designed and are being submitted to the relevant Councils for approval. It is expected that tenders will be called as soon as approvals are forthcoming. 
No land has been allocated for private sector development at this stage, the Corporation having adopted, for the present, a policy of providing fully serviced sites for residential, industrial and commercial development. Once serviced land becomes available specific areas will be allocated to individual home builders and the private building sector for development. 
The Albury-Wodonga Ministerial Council has announced that land tenure in respect of residential sites in AlburyWodonga will be freehold of the type recommended by the Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenure, and that land for retail, commercial and industrial uses will be disposed of under leasehold system unless exceptional circumstances arise. 
No, as no industrial land will be released in the new growth areas before late 1975. However, several industries are actively negotiating with the Corporation and have indicated site preferences. 
It is not possible to reveal any details at this stage of negotiations. 
The answer to the right honourable member 's question is: 
The answer has been provided, in reply to Question No. 39 1 appearing in today's Hansard. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
The allocations to the States were determined in accordance with the following criteria: 
the proportion of the national population resident in the areas of the State covered by the program; 
the relative proportion of people without Sewerage in those areas; and 
the relative shortfall in capital funds required by the State for the year's backlog program. 
The monies provided were loans. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
The answer has been provided in today's  Hansard. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
The answer has been provided in answer to Question No. 1 736 which appeared in today's  Hansard. 
The answer to the Right honourable member's question is: 
The answer has been provided in today's Hansard. 
The answer to the Right honourable member's question is: 
The answer has been provided. 
The answer to the Right honourable member's question is: 
The answer has been provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Report of the Committee of CommonwealthState officials on Decentralisation was tabled on 10 October, 1972 by the then Prime Minister, the Right Honourable W. McMahon. The ten studies, comprising a total of 440 pages, were not tabled at that time due to technical reasons. These studies are now being bound and printed in book form under the title 'Studies Commissioned by the Committee of CommonwealthState Officials on Decentralisation'. It is expected that the finished copies will be available by mid September 197S at which time the book will be tabled. 
See (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is: 
1 ) Funds appropriated to my Department relating to environmental protection are principally those appropriated for the National Estate Program, although funds appropriated for other programs administered by my Department are occasionally used indirectly for environmental protection. An example of the latter type is the occasional use of Land Program funds for the provision of open space recreation areas in urban areas. 
The first mentioned program is, as you are aware, designed to protect and enhance the National Estate. The National Estate is defined widely as those sites of historic, scientific and cultural importance and include both the natural environment and the urban and built environment. In 1974-75 my Department made grants from its appropriation for the whole range of areas encompassed within the National Estate policy. 
The Department of Urban and Regional Development administers the National Estate policy jointly with the Department of Environment on the general basis that Urban and Regional Development is concerned primarily with the urban and built environment while the Department of Environment is concerned with the natural environment. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sewerage authorities operate on and calculate their statistics on a financial year basis. The National Sewerage Program was introduced on 1 July 1973 and the statistical information is provided from that date in respect of urban centres included in that Program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
The information provided has been extracted from the annual reports of the sewerage authorities, because these are the only source of information available for the period involved: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
. How many municipalities in metropolitan cities are partially sewered; which municipalities are they; to what extent are (a) they partially sewered and (b) what is the estimated cost of completing sewerage in each of them. 
Sydney- Metropolitan Water Sewerage &amp; Drainage Board (27)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer I gave in reply to his similar question No. 1415 which appeared at page 699 of the Hansard of 25 February 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 896 which I gave on 3 June 1975 (Hansard, page 3276). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer which I gave to question No. 1731 on 3 June 1975 (Hansard, page 3279). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer which I gave to question No. 1733 on 3 June 1975 (Hansard, page 3279). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Work, leading to a report on the future of Essendon Airport, is being carried out by the Department of Transport in consultation with the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the Treasury. A draft report is currently being studied by my Department and will shortly be considered by officers of my Department and Treasury officials. 
Because of the way the work is being carried out communication has been between officers of the Department of Transport in Melbourne and individual officers of the two other Departments in Canberra. Informal contact by phone between officers of my Department and of Transport has been regular, but face-to-face less frequent. The last such meeting took place on 14 November 1974. I understand communication with officers of Treasury has been of the same nature. 
This depends on when the Department of Transport completes the draft report, and our joint consideration of the conclusions, but a Government decision on this matter is anticipated within the next few months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Yes. 
The purpose of  Mr Dempsey  's visit was related to one of the main provisions of the recently passed Heritage Commission legislation. As you are aware, one of the main provisions of that legislation concerns the compilation of a National Register of National Estate items. For such a register to be of benefit a series of major surveys will be required for each of the many components of the National Estate. It is important that we should not embark on the compilation of such a Register, spending very large sums of money, without a careful assessment of the experiences of others in this area. 

 Mr Dempsey, as a member of the Interim Committee on the National Estate and a person with an appropriate academic background was sent to Paris to conduct these surveys. Paris was selected as several agencies that lead the world in the development of techniques for survey, identification and classification work are situated there. 
The Prime Minister. 
30 May 1975 Ex Sydney for London; 31 May 1975 Arrived London; 3 June 1975 Ex London for Paris; 3 June 1975 Arrived Paris; 14 June 1975 Ex Paris for London; 14 June 1975 Ex London for Sydney; 15 June 1975 Arrived Sydney. 
$2,828.05. 
Yes, but as yet it is not formally presented. 
See above. The final report will be presented to me within the next few weeks. 
I do not know. 
I understand that that is the situation. 

 Mr Dempsey returned to Australia on 15 June 1975 and resigned on 27 June 1975. 
No, the prime objectives of  Mr Dempsey  's trip have been or are in the process of being fully satisfied. 
-The statement by the Leader of the Opposition that there is no growth in growth centres is completely false. The growth of Albury-Wodonga has been 3.1 per cent per annum in the last 3 years. In fact, its growth has been 9 times greater than the growth in similar rural areas in Victoria. The growth in BathurstOrange is about 3 per cent per annum. The fact is that there is an expected growth in BathurstOrange this year of 4 per cent. 
The question to be determined is whether honourable members opposite support policies of decentralisation. When decentralisation was first mooted in the dying days of the McMahon Government, there was a bipartisan agreement on both sides of the House that we had to stop the rot and had to establish a formula to introduce a decent decentralisation policy. We supported that move. We criticised the Government of the day because when it was in office it allowed a movement which resulted in a decline in the rural population. In 1947, just prior to the former Government taking power, 3 1 per cent of the Australian population resided in rural areas. By 1970, that had fallen to 14.7 per cent. 
The decision was made- and it was generally agreed by both parties- that a selected decentralisation program should be determined. The three major areas that have been designated are Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange and, we hope in the near future, Geelong. Now, either the Leader of the Opposition supports the overcentralisation of Sydney and Melbourne or he supports a rational decentralisation policy. The only aspect to the credit of the former Government was the planning and development of Canberra. It is the only area in Australia which will be able to take rational growth, to slow the growth of Sydney and Melbourne, until the growth centres of Bathurst-Orange, AlburyWodonga and Geelong get off the ground. 
It seems to me that the Leader of the Opposition in his shortsighted, hasty, off the top of his head decision, is determined to destroy the major growth centres of Albury-Wodonga, BathurstOrange and Geelong. I would like to know his views of his State colleagues. I would like to know what the Leader of the National Country Party has to say. Why is his head down? Does he support growth centres such as Bathurst-Orange, or has he reneged on the selected growth centre policy? 
-(Reid-Minister for Urban and Regional Development)- For the information of honourable members I present a communique by the Albury-Wodonga Ministerial Council meeting of 14 August 1975. 
The Area Improvement Program is a regionally based program. I understand from a recent letter from the Leader of the Opposition to local government in South Australia that he supports regionally based organisations. The Area Improvement Program was the first pilot program started in the deprived areas of the western sector of Sydney and the western sector of Melbourne. Those 2 pilot projects were extended to 13 regions. This year $ 18m is being spent in 13 regions which cover local government. This amount is a modest amount to try to catch up the backlog in a deprived area of local government. As we know, local government and semi-government authorities were the most deprived levels of government in Australia. During the 23 years that the present Opposition was in government the internal national debt remained at about the same level, while the debt of local authorities increased by 2000 per cent and the debt of semi-government authorities increased by 2800 per cent. 
The Australian Government has adopted many broad programs to try to assist local government. The 2 major ones are access for local authorities to the Grants Commission, and the area improvement programs. The area improvement programs are being undertaken in co-operation between the 3 levels of government -Australian, State and local- and community groups. It is a co-operative effort. Those concerned with the programs have 3 principles in mind. They are seeking to identify regional problems, to work out regional development strategies and to devise appropriate ways of implementing them. In other words, they are trying to give authority to the people at the grass roots level. The area improvement programs work in that way. 
Honourable members opposite know that these area improvement programs cover areas represented in this Parliament by members of all political parties. For instance, the honourable member for Mitchell has been a strong supporter of the area improvement programs in his electorate, as has the honourable member for Parramatta. The situation is the same in rural areas such as the Hunter Valley. The honourable member for Paterson has been a strong supporter of the programs. The Leader of the Opposition has made a decision off the top of his head to abolish these progressive programs which have been undertaken to alleviate the problems of local government, particularly those local authorities that are trying to build up a strong regional base to try to counteract the so-called centralism that the Leader of the Opposition accuses the Government of practising. No policy of the Australian Government is based more at the grass roots level than are the area improvement programs, but again the negative policies that are put forward by the Leader of the Opposition can be perfectly understood. 
The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  informed my office a few minutes before the motion for the adjournment that he would be raising this matter in the House. He did not give me the courtesy of giving me all the details that are necessary in respect of the request that he has made. Basically, the honourable member said that no public statement had been made. A clear public statement of the situation was made by the  Chairman  of the Australian Housing Corporation,  Mr Alec  Ramsay. That statement was made approximately a month ago. The situation is that there has to be a curtailment of applications In other words, there is a waiting time of approximately 1 1 to 12 months for people who want to acquire a home in the present situation. They have been able to obtain temporary finance, as has been done in the past when there were waiting periods for such loans under the former Government of which the honourable member was a supporter. If we were to meet aU the loan applications for this year immediately, instead of making available the $ 122.5m which is allocated in this year's Budget, we would have to provide an amount of $175m. Opposition members have to make up their minds on the matter. They are the people who have been complaining about Government expenditure. They have to decide whether they want a huge deficit or whether they will accept a responsible deficit of about $2, 500m. Any further increase in the deficit would mean an increase in interest rates across the board. The Australian Government had to make its determination in a responsible way to try to retain Government expenditure within a certain limit. This was one of the areas that have had to suffer to some extent. But I point out that the amount of $122.5m is so much more than was ever provided in the past by any previous government. The honourable member says that - 
I wish the honourable member who is parroting something would apply some common sense and examine the Budget expenditure. If he did that he would find that the Monarto project has been deferred in this year's 
Budget A public statement has been made that the resources of the people of Monarto will be used to assist in the reconstruction of Darwin. So I say to the honourable member Please - 
The responsible spokesman for the Opposition who interjects helplessly is so devoid of any real knowledge of budgetary matters that he goes on like a parrot. Quite frankly, nothing would make me more happy than to be able to make the $175m that I believe was needed to meet aU requests for defence service homes. Unfortunately, we have had to make a decision on budgetary matters. The Defence Service Homes Division is one of those sections which has had to come within the constraint of the commitments that we have made. What we have done is to say that those people in a position of hardship can obtain payments immediately. The Regional Directors have been given certain categories which cover such circumstances. If there are cases that the Regional Directors have not been able to meet, honourable members will come to me as the Minister. I Will try to assist wherever possible. 
We have to keep in mind that there is a limited amount of money available and that we have broadened the program from the narrow concept that was previously applied. If one examines the expenditure that the Government made in the 1960s, one finds that the same amount of money was provided every year. It was about $70m. Then, of course, there was a substantial drop in the amount provided. If the honourable member had given me sufficient notice, I would have been able to make the figures available to him. They dropped from $70m to $59m to $48m. In those days, of course, the amount provided was reduced because the loan was not sufficient to meet the commitments of those who were eligible I am not trying to say that the $ 1 5,000 that we make available now solves all the housing problems of those people who are eligible for a defence service homes loan. It does not. But the $122.5m, the second largest amount that has ever been made available by any government in the history of this scheme, has been made available to try to alleviate the position. It is in Une with the overall budgetary restraint. I make no apologies for the position. 
Opposition members have continually hammered the Government and said that there should be continued cuts in Government expenditure and in the Government's deficit. In that case they have to come up with possible alternatives. I am saying quite clearly that this reduction is part of the overall Budget strategy. I believe that even though the people eligible for the loan have a waiting period of 1 1 months, this is still one of the best deals in the nation. The honourable member for Deakin talked about the bad deal that Australians have been given in housing. He should look at the situation of people on low incomes who are waiting for welfare homes. They have to wait much longer than 1 1 months. Why is this? It is because the previous Government neglected any social welfare housing. The situation was such that in the last year of the previous administration only $176m was made available for this purpose. In our first year of office, we made available $2 18m. Last year, we made available approximately $370m and we have made available a similar amount again this year to try to catch up the backlog of welfare housing for those people on low incomes. Some of them have to wait up to three and four years. In order to make the point quite clearly that this Government has brought forward what was thought to be a responsible economic proposal, let us look at the economy as a whole. There is budget restraint and this has to be dealt with in that light. I believe that people in defence service homes are getting a good deal, particularly those who have been on the welfare homes list for so many years. 

 Mr JARMAN (Deakin)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974, I present 2 agreements in relation to the provision of financial assistance to New South Wales and South Australia made in relation to this Act. 
One has to examine the record of the Opposition when it was in government for 23 years prior to 1972. During that time the rural population of Australia fell from 31 per cent of Australia 's population to 14.7 per cent. That was the sorry record of that Government. It allowed the overcentralisation of Sydney and Melbourne to such an extent that it was left to our Government to fight the issue by determining urban and regional policies to try to stem the centralised growth of those 2 cities. The 2 main protagonists in the then Opposition were the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and I. We were both fringe dwellers of Sydney and said that we could not allow this over-centralisation to continue. We sought an alternate policy. Instead of having the scatter-gun decentralisation POliCy which the former government adhered to, putting a little bit of uneconomic industry here and a little bit there, we would, after discussion with the States, seek a selective decentralisation. We determined that the selected growth areas should be on major transport corridors and that the new Australian Government's first priority would be Albury-Wodonga. Transport cost has been a major energy of decentralisation. 
The New South Wales Government had already decided to locate its selected growth centre at Bathurst-Orange and we have given that State Government our support. Together the New South Wales and Victorian State governments and the Australian Government are developing Albury-Wodonga on the major transport corridor between Sydney and Melbourne. We are integrating that development with initiatives to improve the transport infrastructure to make sure that Albury-Wodonga will be economically viable and an answer to the centralisation of Sydney and Melbourne. In its first 3 years the Government has backed that project with financial commitments. We allocated $9m to it in our first Budget, $40m last year and $40m this year. In other words, we have supported that growth centre of AlburyWodonga with nearly $ 100m in our first 3 years. 
Honourable members should note the hypocrisy of the Opposition. The new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has decided to torpedo the growth centre program. He seems to think he could cut off funds just for one year. The spokesman for the National Country Party is confused about the situation. He said: 'We would cut off funds for one year and we could make funds available again in the next year'. But as the honourable member for Gwydir (Mr Hunt), the former Minister responsible for the National Capital Development Commission, is well aware, if we cut off funds for a growth centre or a development corporation for one year it will affect the project in the years ahead. He nods his head in approval. Therefore he must disagree with what the Leader of the Opposition has said and there must be a difference of opinion between the National Country Party and the spokesman for the Liberal Party. Does the Opposition want to cut off the funds to the growth centre at Bathurst-Orange which has a National Country Party State member? Last year we made $5m available to the project for its first year. This year we have made available $8.6m. Does the Country Party support that allocation of funds or does it support the Leader of the Opposition's view to cut off those funds? 
The Opposition says that it wants to cut back capital works. Honourable members should examine at the unemployment situation in nonurban areas and at the potential of growth centres such as Albury-Wodonga and consider the impetus they are giving. Already the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation, which is a joint venture between the State governments of Victoria and New South Wales and the Australian Government, has received 70-odd applications from companies wishing to go to that growth centre. Also the Australian Government has committed itself to the transfer of public servants, to Albury-Wodonga and other growth centres such as Bathurst-Orange and Geelong. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
When the Australian Labor Party Government came to power in 1972 it inherited a statutory authority called the National and Urban Regional Development Authority. It had been created by the McMahon Government in its dying days, in fact the last 2 weeks of that Government, and given the responsibility of reporting to the Parliament on a program of urban and regional development for Australia 
We decided to allow its program of consultation, research and feasibility studies to continue. In October 1973 the Cities Commission Act was passed. It had the effect of keeping this Authority in existence with a different name and with a different composition, but with similar functions. 
At the time when this legislation was passed by the Parliament the work of the Cities Commission was already under way. As I said, it had been set up in the last couple of weeks of the McMahon Government. It was in the early months of the present Government that the Commission assisted our programs a great deal. I pay tribute to those people who were in the Cities Commission at that time for the work they did. 
It had available to it an experienced staff largely drawn from the planning professions. These people were able to make an immediate contribution to the development of this Government's urban and regional policies. Headed at the time by that distinguished planner,  Sir John  Overall, in June 1973 it produced the first of a series of significant publications and studies. This was  A Report to the Australian Government- A Recommended New Cities Program 1973-1978.  It provided the basis for the debate about growth centres, about development corporations and about the virtues of controlled planned growth as opposed to the uncontrolled growth which has created so many problems in our existing cities. As I explained in an earlier debate today, the Menzies Government, the Holt Government, the Gorton Government and the McMahon Government for so long supported a POliCY of  laissezfaire  and centralisation and in no way sought to achieve planned decentralisation or what we call selected growth centres. It was on this report made by a body under the chairmanship of  Sir John  Overall in co-operation with the States that our selected growth policies were founded. 
The Commission has continued this process of undertaking studies, of publishing the results and of stimulating discussion and debate on urban issues. This is completely contrary to what was said by the Opposition spokesman for decentralisation in this House only a few minutes ago. The composition of the Commission permitted the appointment to it of senior State officers. In other words, we had an inter-relationship between the Australian and State governments and we were drawing on the know-how of the State governments. This contributed significantly to the development of good working relations between State governments and my ministry. 
The major fruit of that work was the growth centres program by which we have moved to establish in agreement with the States growth centres at Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange and the Sydney south-west sector. We were hoping to get an agreement with the Victorian Government on Geelong. We are also working together with the South Australian Government on Monarto. I again mention the  laissez-faire  approach of the previous Government for 23 years. The Opposition now supposes that it can turn off the tap for this growth program for a year and next year or the year after continue it. It has no real understanding of urban planning at aU. 
As this process has developed the workload of the Cities Commission in growth centres has been reduced. Because it was already operating in December 1972, it was possible to pass to the Commission many tasks which normally would have been done by a government department or, as has now been set up, the Department of Urban and Regional Development. This enabled the Government to make a quicker start on its programs than would otherwise have been possible. The Department of Urban and Regional Development has gradually grown in strength and capacity. Now it can undertake all of the policy functions which the Cities Commission had done before. 
The Commission now has also completed or relinquished to the Department its responsibilities in the negotiation of agreements with the States. We have now reached the point where the Department can now take over the roles previously performed by the Commission. In the meantime the Department has established more firmly its research and studies program. Inevitably, problems of demarcation have arisen with evidence of duplication of functions. To a degree, these problems could have been sorted out within my ministry. Of greater concern, however, was the confusion created in the minds of people outside my ministry- particularly State Ministers and officials- on where the responsibilities of the Commission ended and where those of the Department of Urban and Regional Development began. In aU of the circumstances it seemed timely at this point to merge the 2 organisations. I would have urged this course solely in the interests of avoiding duplication and cutting out confusion over roles. 
It is also fortunate that such a move comes at a time when on aU sides there are pleas for restraint in government expenditure. Certainly the abolition of the Cities Commission and merging it into the Department of Urban and Regional Development will mean a great saving of government expenditure. Merging of the 2 bodies will allow savings in administrative expenses. It will also allow the same objectives to be reached with a significant saving in Second Division manpower. A continuing need exists for my ministry to have access to professional town planning and engineering advice. I feel that this should be provided by establishing a semiautonomous professional group within my Department. I propose to create a group of this sort to provide a professional consultative service for the Australian Government. It will also be available for use by State governments which from time to time have a need for independent advice. It will also be at the disposal of local government and regional authorities. It could also be available to advise on overseas aid programs on occasions when it may not be appropriate to offer foreign governments assistance from private consultants. We propose to call this group the Bureau of the Cities. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

Before the suspension of the sitting I was explaining that when the Government abolishes the Cities Commission it will incorporate into the Department of Urban and Regional Development a new group to be called the Bureau of the Cities which will be created in a manner similar to the Bureau of Transport Economics in the Department of Transport. The Bureau will have the following functions: 
Providing professional and technical advice and support to the Department, to other elements of the Ministry, to associated bodies, State governments, local government and foreign governments. 
Providing expert task forces or the nucleus of expert task forces to undertake such projects in relation to urban and regional development either in Australia or overseas. 
Undertaking studies and research in accordance with the Department's research program. 
Providing advice on urban and regional investment programs. 
Conducting engineering planning studies and investigations, and undertaking the planning, design and construction of engineering works of an investigatory or experimental nature, including works associated with water supply, sewerage, stormwater, roads and other transportation systems within PilOt projects. 
Developing professional recommendations relating to existing urban areas, including the rehabilitation and redevelopment of existing districts and the preparation of detailed development plans of existing districts. 
Keeping abreast of major developments in urban planning principles, practices and procedures with a view to their adaptation for use in Australia. 
Undertaking broad reviews of completed projects to establish performance standards. 
Formulating and undertaking studies into financial and economic assessment of new city and major urban development projects; and carrying out cost assessment and threshold cost analysis of the public sector works program required for new cities projects. 
Undertaking studies into the desirable alternative financing arrangements for new city projects, the cost revenues and financing of the comprehensive land development base for new city projects. 
1. Designing an economic model for the use of new city development corporations in the sound financial management of the planning and development of new city projects. 
Undertaking studies of and providing advice on the sociological implications of urban development programs. 
The creation of the Bureau will let me rationalise overlapping functions between DURD and the present Cities Commission. It will let me remove a major source of confusion in the attitudes of the States to our urban programs. It will enable me to make some economies in staff in the existing bodies. 
The Commission has done a good job and has seen its major initiatives come to life. I would like to give credit particularly to the work it did at Albury-Wodonga prior to the formation of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. As you know,  Mr Speaker,  the Commission has certainly done a fine job in the growth centres of Geelong and the south-western sector of Sydney, where a development corporation has been set up with the co-operation of the New South Wales Government and the Australian Government. The joint development corporation there is under the control of the New South Wales Minister for Environment and Planning. The Commission has also carried out important work at 
Bathurst-Grange. It has done a great deal of research in the Moreton region in Brisbane and also in Townsville. That is only part of the important work it has carried out in providing assistance for the Government's programs. 
But we must not hesitate to adjust all singlepurpose agencies to meet changing circumstances. One of our prime aims is to give early evidence of our strong support for the AlburyWodonga growth centre. We need to give an early indication of the seriousness of our intentions toward and support for Albury-Wodonga. Because this Bureau would not have a central role in policy formulation, I suggest that we make an early announcement of our intention to locate it in Albury-Wodonga. 
Other organisations, which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has already announced, will be transferred. Even though the Opposition seems to think that we are only pulling these names out of a hat, a committee on the location of government employment has been meeting for the past year. Members of that Committee have come from the Prime Minister's Department, the Public Service Board and the Department of Urban and Regional Development. They have studied the matter in depth and have made the recommendation to Cabinet. A few matters have been deferred for further investigation. There will soon be further announcements as to the location of public servants. I believe that the Bureau of the Cities will play a very fine role. I strongly favour the early transfer to Albury-Wodonga of one of the bodies which played a key role in selecting and developing it as a growth centre. It will also provide the centre with ready access to a professional body to assist in its planning and development. 
The Prime Minister announced the Government's intention to abolish the Cities Commission on 4 June 1975. Following such an announcement it was inevitable that the staff of the Commission suffered from feelings of insecurity and lowered morale. Because of this, the Public Service Board, on the advice of the AttorneyGeneral's Department, agreed to transfer the staff from the Commission to the Department of Urban and Regional Development before this repealing legislation was passed. I thank the Public Service Board for its co-operation in this matter. It has reduced disruption to the work program of DURD and more importantly has made the transition for Cities Commission staff as easy as possible. 
I conclude with a very high tribute to the value of the work done by the Commission and its staff during its relatively short life. In particular, I single out  Sir John  Overall and  Mr Eric  Warrell, his successor as  Chairman,  for the fine work they have done. I thank the part time members of the Commission and the members of the Cities Commission Advisory Committee- many of them distinguished State public servants and distinguished citizens in their own right- for their help in fulfilling the Government's urban and regional goals. All of the Cities Commission staff remaining at 27 August 1975 have been offered employment within my Department. Most of them have already accepted the offer. I am sure that they will continue to work with the same commitment and efficiency in a new relationship with their colleagues in the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply, given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2789 which appeared in Hansard (page 3546) on 5 June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present an agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Western Australia for urban expansion and redevelopment (Moore River studies) 1974-75. 
(Reid - Minister for Urban and Regional Development)- Pursuant to section 24 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957-1975, I present the annual report of the National Capital Development Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
My Department did make a submission to the Priorities Review inquiry but did not recommend the proposal which the honourable member suggested. 
Finance under the defence service homes scheme will be made available immediately to all applicants who applied up to 3 1 July, but for applications made after that date there will be a waiting period of 1 1 months, except in hardship cases. We have given regional directors responsibility for making recommendations in cases of hardship. We have made this decision in the overall budgetary context. It is quite easy for the Opposition to isolate the defence service homes sector but we have taken a decision in the whole budgetary position because we realised that if we had too great a deficit we would have to look at the overall housing situation, including interests generally. If our deficit was greater than was forecast in the Budget we might have found that the long term bond rate may have risen some 2 per cent or 3 per cent. Consequently sectors of housing other than defence service homes would have been penalised greatly. 
We believe it is a reasonable proposal that the $122m that we have made available for defence service housing is a good contribution in the overall context. Frankly, except in the case of hardship, we believe that those people who are refused finance can secure temporary accommodation for 1 1 months, bearing in mind that when the long term bond rate is about 10 per cent they will still get finance at 3% per cent. We regret this, but it is a part of the overall Budget strategy. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the operations (other than insurance) in relation to the Defence Service Homes scheme for the year ended 30 June 1975. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would like to supplement my answer to the question asked by the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar). 
I seek leave to clarify a matter raised in a question asked of me last Thursday. 
I thank honourable members for their contributions to the debate on the estimates on the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I particularly thank my colleagues, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),'  the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  and honourable members on the Opposition side who have spoken in this debate. I will try to deal with their comments in detail. Let me state clearly that the Department of Urban and Regional Development is a major policy department of the Australian Government. It was set up to deal with the wide ambit of urban and regional affairs, both directly and indirectly, including the living conditions of people residing in cities and regional centres. We believe that the first principle in that respect is that everything is interconnected. I remind the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  that no longer can we allocate these various aspects to little boxes. We must consider the wide ramifications involved. That is why the responsibility was given to my Department. 
In the 23 years that the parties now in Opposition were the Government, they always looked at the economy from a macro aspect, broad brush approach. The never looked at the question in the micro aspects of the economy. That is why those people who live on the fringe of the areas which the honourable member for Mitchell represents, particularly in the western region of Sydney, have suffered so badly over the years. That is why flooding occurs in the Parramatta River particularly at Toongabbie Creek. No real thought was put into that aspect. That is why over-development occurred in those areas. That is how the placement of industry occurred around Parramatta, Granville, Ermington and Silverwater. No attention was paid to the draught of air which came down from the mountains into the Parramatta Valley, some 17 miles wide and some 300 to 400 feet deep, which brought smog to that area and which finished up over Sydney itself. No reason was sought why pollution of the Parramatta River occurred. The Department of Urban and Regional Development is trying to look at these problems and to study the interrelationship of these aspects. 
The responsibility given to the Department of Urban and Regional Development under the policies of the Australian Government is to deal with these broad problems. For instance, it has the responsibility of looking at the question of urban land for young people. The cost of this land has skyrocketed out of all proportion. The Department is giving attention to urban land, residential properties and the difficulty for young people to obtain a block of land. Another difficulty considered concerns open space land. The honourable member for Mitchell knows of the exploitation of the lower Blue Mountains area, which should be familiar to him. If it had not been for the Australian Government stepping in to assist the State Government and the local government authority, that area would have been exploited and destroyed. I move from that area to districts such as the Mornington Peninsula or the Dandenongs where the same exploitation occurred. Not one penny was made available or spent by the former Government which Opposition members represent in the 23 years of its management to assist in co-operation with State and local governments in an effort to save those open space areas. 
I turn to the question of sewerage programs. In 1970, one in every 6 families in Sydney lived in an unsewered area. Every second family in Perth was living in an unsewered area. We found that more than $3,000m would be required on present day costs to sewer those cities. This Government has moved into areas such as Glebe, Wooloomooloo and Emerald Hill where urban rehabilitation was required. 
One honourable member opposite talked about co-operation. What was the situation at Wooloomooloo? There was a grandiose scheme proposed by the Askin Government of New South Wales in which land developers speculated to build up and exploit that basin at Wooloomooloo. Where 7000 people used to live, now only 700 people live. High rise buildings were proposed. The government of the day wanted to build a skyscraper that would house some 15 000 Commonwealth public servants and cost between $50m and $60m to build. That proposal has been found to be utterly stupid. An approach was made not by this Government but by the Sydney City Council of the day. To its credit, the State Planning Authority of the New South Wales Government came to the Australian Government and said: 'We want to cooperate with you'. So, in a tripartiate agreement we came together as a task force and we were able to save that place. We determined that it would cost at least $17m in grant money, which would be non-repayable and interest free, to acquire and rehabilitate this land that had been acquired by the land speculators, that had been owned by the Australian Government and had a value of some Slim. We took this action to rehabilitate the inner Sydney suburb of Wooloomooloo so that the urban community of 7000 people could be rehabilitated back into that area. 
In respect of the church land in the Glebe area, if we had not stepped in many hundreds of people on low incomes would have been exploited and moved out of this area by land developers, because the Church of England would have sold the land on the open market. We moved in to rehabilitate the area. We also looked at the situation in Melbourne. We were able to save the historic area of Emerald Hill. What about the rehabilitation of the inner city areas? What does the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  say about this? He says that the Opposition would make special economies in urban rehabilitation and area improvement programs. We know what the urban area improvement programs would do to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  and the honourable member for Mitchell. They know how much these programs would assist them, but their so-called Leader has said that his Party in Government would make special economies. What does 'special economies' mean? 
It means a cutback on urban rehabilitation. That is what the Leader of the Opposition would do in government. I hope that the honourable member for Mitchell will tell the people in his electorate because I will certainly remind them and the honourable member for Parramatta and the honourable member for Mitchell, the 2 young aspiring radicals of the Liberal Party, that the gallant leader of the Liberal Party will make special economies by cutting back on assistance to local government in areas. 
My Department will look not only at urban rehabilitation but also into the question of growth centres. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  spoke about growth centres. Let me refer to what the Leader of the Opposition had to say about growth centres in his speech on the Budget. He said: 'We would have to suspend the growth centre expenditure'. What does this mean? The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who used to be the Minister responsible for the National Capital Development Commission, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who used to administer the National Capital Development Commission, would know that if you suspend expenditure on a growth centre like Canberra, Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange, Geelong or the south-western corridor, the effects of the suspension would be magnified in several years time. I wish that some adviser would tell the Leader of the Opposition the real facts about urban development, because it is a long chain. It takes time. It has a long pipeline in which the development occurs. If you interfere with development projects along that curve, the effects will carry into the years ahead. The honourable member for Cowper talked about stop and go. What utter stupidity it is for a man with his mentality to talk like that. It may be that he just does not really understand the situation. 
We are proposing growth centres because we believe they are a rational alternative to the madness of over-centralisation such as exists in Sydney and Melbourne. We have argued that we should rationalise the development of Sydney and Melbourne and selected growth centres. We have not put all our eggs into the one basket. It has also been the responsibility of my Department to stop the over-centralisation of Sydney. Instead of building our office centres in areas like 
Woolloomooloo and the central business districts of Sydney we intend to build them in areas such as Parramatta. 
I have said very clearly that the reason why we are building at Parramatta is a simple one. We will build at Parramatta, at Liverpool, at Campbelltown and at Penrith in the Sydney area. In the Melbourne area we will be building at places such as Ringwood, the Dandenongs, Sunshine and Watsonia. Honourable members opposite should listen to this. This action is being taken in dialogue, discussion and agreement with both the New South Wales Government and the Victorian Government. This action has been taken for one reason alone, that is, that we want to make sure that a city is a rational city and not an over-centralised city like Sydney where over-centralisation was caused by the development of buildings in the inner city area, at North Sydney, The Rocks, Woolloomooloo and Kings Cross. Former governments permitted this over-centralisation to develop. We want to develop rationally those sub-metropolitan centres that I have mentioned so that job opportunities will be available in those areas and so that we can achieve a rational public transport system. We want to upgrade the public transport system so that people will move both ways at the same time and will not all leave at the same time in the morning and all go home at the same time at night. The transport system should not be geared to peak hours, geared to the central business district, but to enable people to move in a rational manner. We want to gear and develop our major cities in a rational way instead of the irrational  laissez /aire  way that occurred under the former Government. We want to develop those cities rationally. 
In addition, in the spirit of co-operation between State and local governments we are developing a growth centre in the south western sector of Sydney stretching between Liverpool and Campbelltown and taking in the major centres of Camden and Appin. This is a cooperative effort with the New South Wales conservative government. It is only an Administration such as this Government has that has been able to work co-operatively with the States which has enabled this to be done. 
Mention has been made of the National Estate. I repeat that in talking on this subject everything is interconnected and you just cannot put things into boxes any longer. So those things that were created by man or by nature, that were unique or beautiful and should be preserved for posterity, we are trying to preserve. If it is an old building of some historical significance, we want to try to retain it for posterity. The honourable member for Parramatta should be aware of the bulldozer mentality that existed in Parramatta, a place which is the cradle of our nation. Buildings that were over 100 years old were bulldozed to the ground and monstrosities of flats were erected in their place. These are the sorts of things that we are trying to stop. As I said, we are trying to preserve those things created by nature, which are beautiful or of some significance, such as landscapes and the escarpment of the Blue Mountains. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has spoken about these things with some emotion for a long time and he has spoken to me personally. I know that he would like to see the Blue Mountains national park extended. But what was he able to contribute towards extending the Blue Mountains national park in all the time that he was a member of the conservative government? How much money did former governments spend on the development of the Blue Mountains national park in 23 years? Not one penny! The Government of which I am a member has certainly made a contribution by acquiring large tracts of land in the escarpment of the Blue Mountains. The Government will continue to do this. This is one of the practical things which this Government is doing. 
The Department of Urban and Regional Development has also been indirectly involved with the Department of Transport in the planning of urban public transport. It is involved particularly with urban arterial roads and urban local roads under the Commonwealth Roads Agreement. Recently the Department of Urban and Regional Development took over the administration of the Housing Corporation which deals with defence service homes. I will reply to certain comments made by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  in a moment. The Department has also inherited from the former Department of Services and Propertyits name has been changed to the Department of Administrative Services- responsibility for Australian Government property. It will be responsible for 1400 properties throughout Australia. Decisions on the development and use of those properties will be made by Commonwealth, State and local governments. I would like to see this done in a spirit of co-operation because if we are to solve urban problems this can be done only by co-operation between the 3 levels of government, with community groups and with the people themselves. No one has a mortgage over the solution to the problems of urban affairs. No more can the Australian Government, a State government or a local government do things in isolation. For that reason we have genuinely tried to achieve cooperation. 
In conclusion I want to reply to the honourable member for Herbert who raised the question of defence service homes. I want to deal with this matter in a rational way. The Opposition is concerned about the Budget deficit which is approximately $2,800m. Last year's deficit was $2,500m. So this is a fairly neutral Budget. If honourable members opposite want to cut programs still further they will create further unemployment. I was a member of the Expenditure Review Committee which helped to frame the Budget. My Department was very concerned that, if the deficit rose above $2,800m, the long term bond rate might rise by at least 2 per cent, and some people thought that it could even rise by 3 per cent. So we had to look at all the programs on a broad basis. I knew that defence service homes would be coming under my direct responsibility so we kept the expenditure at the level of $ 122.5m. 
It was decided that those people who applied for defence service homes after 31 July would have to wait 1 1 months, except in cases of hardship. If we had decided to give the full amount immediately to the applicants for defence service homes it would have been necessary to allocate a further $50m to wipe out the 1 1 months waiting time. People would have said that if it was good enough to make a further $50m available for that purpose it would be good enough to make further commitments elsewhere, and we would have had a much higher deficit. We had to assume that interest rates, which are now taking a downward turn, would start to rise. The people who are now on the waiting list would have been paying interest at 3% per cent. In other words, they would be subsidised by  6lA  per cent by the Australian Government for the first $12,000 and by  2%  per cent for the further $3,000. If that had occurred, those people outside the defence service homes scheme may have had to pay much more for their home loans. They would have had to pay much higher interest rates, and they are paying high enough interest rates now. 
I understand that other honourable members wish to speak in this debate so I will conclude by saying that the Department of Urban and Regional Development has been a success story, irrespective of what honourable members opposite say. The officers of my Department are co-operative, prompt and polite. There is cooperation between the officers and members of this Parliament irrespective of their political party. I want that state of affairs to continue. I have encouraged the senior officers of my Department to talk to the Opposition's spokesmen. Those spokesmen have right of access to senior officers of my Department. I want them to have a complete relationship with the Department because I believe that the Department will make a real impact on the development of urban and regional communities, which was not achieved when the Opposition was in power. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sewerage 
The Warrnambool Sewerage Authority has applied for assistance under the National Sewerage Program in 1974-75, and 1975-76, and for Support Activities funds in 1975-76. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sewerage 
The South Australian Engineering and Water Supply Department has applied for assistance under the National Sewerage Progam in 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I may, in consultation with an appropriate Minister of a State, approve programs relating to: Urban Expansion and Redevelopment; Area Improvement, being urban and regional improvement and rehabilitation; Sewerage; Water Supply; and Restoration, preservation and improvement of landscapes and buildings of special significance. 
Financial assistance by way of loan or otherwise may be provided on this basis to: an authority of a state; a local governing body; or any body corporate constituted for purposes other than the acquisition of gain by its individual members. 
Grants have been made to individual groups who satisfy these legislative requirements under one program only- the National Estate Program. Financial assistance under all other programs I administer are made to authorities of a state or local governing bodies. 
The National Estate Program commenced in 1973-74 under the legislative authority of Appropriation Act No. 2. Then as now advertisements calling for applications for these grants are placed in the national press. These grants were also advertised in the handbook entitled 'Australian Government Assistance to Local Government Projects' published by my Department. They have again been advertised in the subsequent publication of my Department entitled 'Australian Government Assistance to Local Projects'. Apart from this direct advertising the National Estate Program receives much general publicity in the media. 
In 1974-75 alone in excess of 1 100 applications for grants under this program were received and processed. All applications received are considered by the Interim Committee on the National Estate, who make recommendation to my colleague the Minister for Environment and myself. Agreement of the appropriate State Minister is also obtained before the final projects to be funded are selected. 
As with all of the programs administered by my Department the monies involved are transferred from the Australian Treasury to the appropriate State Treasury who control the flow of funds to the recipient in accordance with normal Treasury principles. 
The total amount spent under this program in 1973-74 and 1 974-75 respectively was $2,226,900 and $7,207,850. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Yes. Under the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) Act 1973 for the 1973-74 program and the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act for the 1974-75 program, loans have been made to the South Australian Government in respect of the purchase and development by the South Australian Land Commission of land for urban use. Under the same Acts grants have been made for the purchase of land for regional open space. 
In 1973-74 the South Australian Land Commission acquired 1226 hectares of land for urban use. In 1974-75 the South Australian Land Commission incurred expenditures which are subject to financial assistance in respect of the following acquisitions: 1711 hectares of land for urban use; 1022 hectares of land for regional open space. 
Land acquisitions during the 1973-74 financial year were located in the following local government areas: 
My attention has been drawn to the reports. Of course the pollution into Port Phillip Bay was a legacy inherited by this Government. As honourable members know one in 6 families in Melbourne lives in unsewered areas and most of the flow from the catchment area of Melbourne goes into Port Phillip Bay. In regard to assistance, this Government made $13m available in the first year. In the last financial year it made $34m available. In this financial year it has allocated $35m. In that legacy of neglect, a debt burden has been built up by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. The authority pays 58c of every dollar in servicing the debt loan. Therefore the solving of this problem will take a considerable period but this 
Government will do everything in its power to co-operate with the of Government to try to overcome the legacy that we inherited. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The National Estate Program has been in operation since 1973-74, to the present date. The cost to the Government, by way of non-repayable grants to non-government bodies to provide assistance to preserve important parts of the cultural and natural heritage of Australia, has been as follows: 1973-745682,900, 1974-75 $1,820,053. 
The organisations which have received such grants are as follows: 
1973- 74. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total amount allocated for expenditure under the Defence Service Homes Scheme in 1974-75 was $ 130m. Of this amount approximately $1 16.3m was lent to applicants. The balance was expended on the purchase and development of land and progress payments to contractors erecting homes on the Corporation 's group housing estates. 
Administrative expenses relating to the operation of the Defence Service Homes Scheme were met from the general appropriation for the Department of Housing and Construction. There is no separate record from which the cost of adminstration of the Scheme during 1974-75 can be obtained. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
The number of applicants assisted through the Defence Service Homes Scheme to build or buy new dwellings in the year ending 30 June, 1975 was 4,443. 
The number of loans to applicants to purchase or build new homes in 1975-76 from the funds provided for Defence Service Homes purposes is estimated to be 4,344. 
The information on the number of dwellings built in both 1 and 2 above include loans provided under the following categories of assistance: 
New homes erected with temporary finance under prearranged discharge of mortgage method. 
New homes purchased. 
New homes built. 
The average cost of homes built or financed under the Defence Service Homes Scheme rose from $17,929 in 1972-73 to $22,587 in 1973-74. The Government took this rise in costs into account prior to its increasing the maximum loan from $12,00010 $ 15,000 in the 1974-75 Budget. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department employs two Community Relations Officers and one Community Development Officer attached to the Glebe Project. 
The Community Relations Officers are  Mr Harry  Stein and  Mr David  Bornstein the Community Development Officer is  Ms Nita  McCrae. 
The duties for the Community Relations Officers are as follows: 
Under broad direction undertake field work in areas where the Department is engaged in studies and projects including: explanation of departmental policies on urban issues at local, regional and State level utilising all possible opportunities; detection, analysis and reporting of movemem of opinion and attitudes on urban, regional and community issues. Undertake special short-term assignments where issues require local investigation and transmission of the departmental viewpoint, and act as the main departmental link with corresponding officers in Development Corporations. 
The duties for the Community Development Officer are as follows: 
As a member of a small project team, assist in developing methods whereby Glebe Estate residents can effectively participate in the development of the Glebe Project, be responsible for liaison between the project staff and the community, assist residents with particular problems and needs, stimulate the formulation of ideas and methods for implementing specific objectives and assist in carrying out studies on the social and environmental aspects of the estate. 

 Mr Stein is based in Sydney and operates throughout New South Wales, 

 Mr Bornstein is based in Melbourne and operates throughout Victoria and Tasmania, 

 Ms McCrae is based in Glebe, New South Wales and operates in the Glebe Estate. 
Messrs Stein and Bornstein are employed as Senior Executive Officers (Class 9) in the Third Division of the Public Service and as such receive annual salaries of $ 1 4,653. 

 Ms McCrae is employed as a  Clerk  (Class 7) in the Third Division of the Public Service and as such receives an annual salary of$12,158. 

1 )  Mr Stein  has had an extensive background in com.community relations work, had his own public relations and publishing business and long experience in journalism. He has extensive working experience with Government, Australian and State Departments, Local Government Authorities and Associations, the media, community groups and voluntary organisations. Prior to his appointment  Mr Stein  was employed as a temporary Journalist Grade Al by the Department. 
b)  Mr Bornstein  has had considerable experience in the fields of health and social welfare research and policy as well as a close involvement with various projects and studies concerned with social, economic and physical dislocation. These have included close liaison with Australian, State and local government authorities and voluntary welfare organisations and community groups. He worked as a journalist for 6 years with provincial newspapers in Victoria and Queensland and 5 years with a leading Melbourne daily newspaper. Prior to his appointment  Mr Bornstein  was for 414 years State MLA for Brunswick East in Victoria. 

 Ms McCrae was for many years prior to her appointment and for the past five years in particular, very active in the role of a voluntary community development worker in the Inner City of Sydney. She had considerable experience working with government officials and professionals in all her work, particularly in planning matters. She set up the local committee in her areas under the Australian Assistance Plan and was closely involved in organising the Inner City Regional Council of Social Development in Sydney. She was given excellent references by academics and professionals in the fields of Sociology, town planning and community work. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The waiting period for assistance under the Scheme in respect of applications to purchase a home lodged on or after 1 August 1975, is eleven months. There is no waiting period for assistance to build a home. 
815,000. 
The numbers of applicants assisted during 1974-75 and for the months of July and August 1975 where the amount of the loan was less than the statutory maximum were: 
1974-75-1814 
July 1975-314 August 1975-264 
The main reasons why some loans were less than the statutory maximum were: where the applicant requested a loan of less than the maximum statutory amount. where the amount of advance which could be made available in accordance with the Defence Service Homes Act having regard to the value of a property, was less than the maximum statutory amount. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The pre-election statement by  Mr Whitlam,  Leader of the Australian Labor Party was- 'A Labor Government will immediately ask the principal water and sewerage authorities what Commonwealth Grants in the present financial year would enable them to embark promptly and economically on an uninterrupted program to provide services to all the premises in their areas by 1 978 '. 
Seel above. 
The answer was provided in answer to Question 'No. 2362 which appeared in  Hansard  of 2 September 1975 on page 889. 
I have seen the report and I have also examined a transcript of the comments made by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party. I have been in touch with the National Capital Development Commission and it has informed me that it has been meeting contracts and has been paying accounts promptly this year. From 1 July until this time it has paid $67m. In the last week of September claims for $5m came in and they were paid by 3 October. One contractor sought a payment on 24 September of $900,000 and was paid on 3 October. Another application for $884,000 was made on 29 September and again that was paid on 3 October. The Commission has even gone to the extent of assisting some contractors by paying them on fortnightly terms instead of monthly payments. 
The false and irresponsible allegation which was made by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party shows the irresponsibility of some Opposition members. We know that there are some adventurers on that side who want to change the Government and want to stop Supply. They must realise that by doing so agencies such as the National Capital Development Commission will not be able to pay claims under their contracts for very long and that any other major contractor with whom the Australian Government enters into a contract will not have his payments met. The adventurers who are behind the Leader of the Opposition, such as the Leader of the National Country Party, the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party and his own  deputy,  who want to take this road of adventurism must realise what they are doing to their system. I cannot imagine that the Leader of the Opposition is so stupid as to be pressurised into stopping the Budget. Those members on the other side of the House who laugh have to keep in mind that it is their system that they are tearing down. 
in reply- In summing up the debate on the second reading of the Cities Commission (Repeal) Bill 1975, I thank the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  the Opposition spokesman on urban and regional affairs, for his comments and to some extent for his understanding of the present Government's policy. We expanded the policy on urban and regional affairs to the interconnection of urban affairs because we realised that we could not deal with things in boxes any more; we had to deal with the vertical aspect. Previously, there had been no real understanding of this in this Parliament. I think there still has to be a greater understanding in this Parliament of the intricate problems of urban communities. I was pleased to hear the contribution made by the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  and by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  My colleague, the honourable member for Casey was the secretary to the former Leader of the Opposition. He had a great deal to do in the early stages of formulating urban policy. I believe that there has to be a continuity of programs in these urban and regional affairs. I think the Department of Urban and Regional Development that has now absorbed the Cities Commission is trying to do this. 
I pay a tribute first of all to those people responsible for the development of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority under  Sir John  Overall and the leadership that was then given under  Mr Eric  Warrell who was a vice  president  of the Sydney Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board before taking over control of the Cities Commission. If it had not been for the leadership of those people, we would not have been able to get off the mark in the development of our policies. 
If we look at the development of urban and regional affairs we find, as do those honourable members opposite who were the Ministers responsible for the National Capital Development Commission, that that development is a long term process. It is a pipeline of development and if one ruptures or interferes with the flow of development that occurs over that long pipeline then that effect will be felt years ahead. That is why, with the understanding shown by two of the Opposition members who spoke- the honourable member for Sturt and the honourable member for Wide Bay, it really concerns me that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his reply to the Budget Speech, as reported at page 527 of  Hansard  of 26 August 1975 said: 
We would have suspended the growth centre expenditures. . . . 
Suspension means to delay. To suspend the expenditure on the development of growth centres whether they be in Albury-Wodonga, in Bathurst-Orange or on the south-west corridor of Sydney stretching from Holsworthy-Liverpool down, including Campbelltown and the AppinCamden area would be to set back, in fact to destroy, the whole growth centre program. The honourable member for Wide Bay spoke about decentralisation because of over-centralisation. For many years in this Parliament honourable members opposite mouthed words about decentralisation. All they would do was mouth the words. During most of the years from 1947 to 1970 the conservative elements which the Opposition now represents were in government. During that period the population of the non-urban areas fell from 31 per cent to 14.7 per cent of the total population. 
We have tried to reverse that situation. The 2 major advocates for reversing that policy and talking about selected growth development were 2 fringe dwellers of the biggest metropolis in this continent. They were fringe dwellers on the outskirts of Sydney. They were the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and myself. We campaigned around the countryside, the Prime Minister doing so even before I did. During the 3 years from 1970 to 1972, we were able to put pressure on the then Government that stirred it from its slumberland. It set up NURDA only in its dying days. In fact NURDA was created only 2 weeks before the last government was defeated. I was grateful for the crumbs that fell from the table because at least the organisation had been set up. It assisted in getting our programs under way and it assisted in making the investigations. 
I should like to deal with the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in that regard. The then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  said in his second reading speech that it was estimated that the population of Australia would be approximately 22 million by the turn of the century. What the honourable member for Mackellar and even Professor Borrie should understand is that I have been campaigning and working on this for at least the previous 3 years. If we were to get a rational urban policy we had to slow up the population growth increase because if one examines records of decentralisation it will be found that Britain has the best record. In the period from the end of the Second World War until about 1970--  (Quorum formed).  I was saying that Britain has the finest record of any country with a decentralisation policy. It was able to slow up the growth of its major cities in the period between the end of the Second World War and 1970 by about 11/4 million people. 
If we could slow the growth of our capital cities by at least 1 million people between now and the turn of the century- bear in mind that our present population is 13 million and that the right honourable member for Lowe stated when he was Prime Minister we would have a population increase by then of 9 million people- we would have to absorb the other 8 million people in our major capital cities, mainly in Sydney and 
Melbourne. That is the normal trend. I have said over a number of years that that was madness. I said that we had to work towards achieving a population pattern of an annual increase of approximately 1.1 per cent. Our normal population growth is 1.9 per cent- 1.1 per cent being natural growth and 0.8 per cent representing immigration growth. If we maintained that 1.1 per cent population growth rate till the turn of the century our population would be a little over 17.3 million which would permit us to decentralise our population by at least 1 million and we would have been able rationally to absorb the other 3.3 million in the other capital cities. That was the policy that we were expressing. The policy of my Party is based on that premise. 
I recognise the role the Cities Commission has played in the development of decentralisation and the role that the Department of Urban and Regional Development has been able to develop over a period, looking at the overall picture. They have been able to make great progress. I hope this progress will continue irrespective of the difficult days ahead. There are difficult days ahead because although the honourable member for Mackellar accused the Government of certain things the point is that in adopting this irreversible attitude the Opposition members should realise that it is their system which they are tearing down. There has to be some understanding of the responsibilities involved.  It is the Opposition's system, and in refusing to pass Supply it will make sure that - 
-Talking about the Opposition's system, I do respect your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  but it is the Opposition's system -  (Quorum formed)  I close on that point so that the Bill can be passed before we rise for dinner. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Capital Development Commission will construct an estimated 1300 residential dwelling units in the A.C.T. during 1975-76. 
Comparative figures derived from Commission Annual Reports for the previous 6 years, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During 1974-75, the National Capital Development Commission completed 1400 government dwelling units in Canberra at a cost of $23. 1 m. 
The estimated number of dwelling units to be built during 1975-76 by the Commission is 1300. Expenditure is estimated at $20.9m. 
The expenditure estimates are based on current costs but most contracts are subject to the provisions of Rise and Fall clauses in construction projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
53,203.20 
The advertisement was inserted solely by the National Capital Development Commission. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The transport policies developed jointly by the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission are: 
To develop transport facilities which best serve the complex pattern of activities necessary to the well-being of the community. 
To encourage the development and use of a high quality public transport system. 
3 ) To provide for freight and essential private car movements at minimum cost to the community, and with minimum impact on the social and physical environment. 
To promote public safety and amenity, and the conservation of resources. 
To ensure public understanding of and support, for the transport policies being developed. 
These policies will involve: 
The design of the road system to cater only for off-peak needs. 
The progressive improvement of public transport as the city develops to provide both the necessary extra capacity for commuters and a higher level of service to meet social needs. 
The associated control of traffic and car parking to minimise congestion and environmental problems, especially at peak periods. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In regard to the allegations made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  as far as I am concerned they are completely false. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill approves the execution of an agreement between the Australian Government and the New South Wales Government to provide financial assistance to abate pollution from mine wastes at Captains Flat. It provides an appropriation of funds for the purpose of the agreement. 
To give something of the background of this Bill, mining activities ceased at Captains Flat in 1962. 1 point out that in the 10 years before this Government came to power the previous Government was unable to reach agreement with the New South Wales Government, but this Government has been able to reach an agreement. The cessation of mining activities resulted in the accumulation of approximately 1.1 million cubic metres of tailings, slimes and fine dump materials on hillside areas above the Molonglo River to the west and "south of Captains Flat township. These works have proved a continuing and consistent source of pollution of the Molonglo River.  Major remedial  works are required at the source of the pollution to safeguard the Molonglo-Murrumbidgee basin and Lake Burley Griffin. Quite clearly, prevention of this pollution is a major environmental undertaking for the Australian Capital Territory and for the adjacent areas of New South Wales. 
I have had a number of consultations with my colleagues, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  and the Minister for Environment  (Mr Berinson)  on this question. We met with representatives of the New South Wales Government early last year. As a result of that meeting, a Joint Government Technical Committee was set up to look at the Captains Flat pollution problem and recommend on the best ways of stopping the pollution. When the Committee's report was received, Ministers from both governments got together and drew up a list of proposals to be put to both governments. This process of cooperation and dialogue has been continued by officers of the Australian and New South Wales governments. Both governments have now reached substantial agreement on the form of joint measures to be undertaken. 
The Bill and the attached Agreement before the Parliament, make the following provisions: Financial assistance for programs approved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in consultation with the appropriate State Minister; arrangements for carrying out programs will be as agreed between the Australian Government and the New South Wales Government; financial assistance for capital works, not expected to exceed $2.5m on the basis of fourfifths grant on one-fifth loan, interest bearing and repayable- in other words New South Wales will be meeting 20 per cent of the capital cost; financial assistance for maintenance works with half the expenditure by way of nonrepayable, non-interest bearing grant- New South Wales will be contributing the other 50 per cent of funds towards maintenance. 
The terms of the proposed Agreement are broadly acceptable to the New South Wales Government. On the ground, trial embankments have been constructed and confirm the wisdom of the proposed works. The New South Wales Government plans to approve a contract in the next few weeks and this should allow remedial works to be completed in substantial measure before next winter. The works will prevent erosion and leaching from the mine waste dumps. They will minimise the flow of polluted mine water by restricting the water inflow to the mine from Forster 's Creek. The re-shaped dumps will be covered with layers of clay, rock and soil and will be sown with new vegetation. The works to be undertaken also include measures to protect the environment during construction. In conclusion, I express appreciation for the co-operation between the Australian and New South Wales governments, and I thank particularly the officials who were involved in producing this Agreement. A Joint Technical Committee made up of representatives of the 2 governments is continuing advisory work and will continue to report to both governments. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The traffic survey at Hall is one of a number of similar surveys being conducted in Canberra and is part of a joint study by the Department of the Capital Territory, Department of Tourism and Recreation and the National Capital Development Commission. The aim of the survey is to establish a significant data base for research and analysis of the usage and requirements for visitor facilities in Canberra. 
Objectives included in the survey aim at identifying visitor preferences for accommodation, modes of travel and use of national monument areas, parks and scenic spaces. 
) The results of the survey will be made public as soon as possible after completion. 
Two questionnaires are being used in this traffic survey. One questionnaire is completed on initial contact with the visitor at the survey point, the other is issued to the visitor with the request to answer the questions on the form and return the questionnaire to the survey organisers. Copies of the two forms have been provided to the honourable member. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to Question No. 1561 which I gave on 9 October 1975  (Hansard, page 2020). 
Department of the Media: Reports  (Question No. 2594) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 31 10 on 1 October 1975  (Hansard,  page 1598). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The advertising budget for 1 975-76 is $86,000. 
Departmental recruitment, press advertising of Urban Papers, the Area Improvement Program in the Illawarra region, a photographic competition m connection with the UN Habitat Conference, urban awareness workshop for students. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A total of 9 persons have been appointed to the staff of the Australian Housing Corporation. 
No officers have been transferred from Australian Government Departments to the Corporation. However, 1231 positions have been transferred from the Defence Service Homes Division of the Department of Housing and Construction, to the Department of Urban and Regional Development and are presently on loan to the Corporation. 
All professional and clerical officers employed by the Corporation and presently on loan to the Corporation possess those qualifications considered necessary to carry out the functions of the Corporation. The academic qualifications of these people are similar to those of the Australian Public Service. 
The Corporation is presently developing programs aimed at providing assistance to individuals or groups suffering disadvantages in seeking access to satisfactory housing provisions. Among the specific programs of financial assistance which seems likely to be introduced is the provision of deferred repayment mortgages which might be on either first or second mortgage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Residents can accept the statement as an assurance that the Australian Government intends that any acquisition of land over the A.C.T. border would be on just terms. 
The Lands Acquisition Act, under which the Australian Government normally acquires lands for its purposes, provides for the assessment of compensation on this basis. 
In the event of any special legislative measures being required to effect the extension of the border, the compensation principles contained in the Lands Acquisition Act would be incorporated in any new legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Yes, discussions between the Australian and N.S.W. Governments on the growth of Canberra had proceeded on a co-operative basis since 197 1. 
2 ) The joint approach to the resolution of the border situation was rejected by the N.S.W. Premier,  Mr Lewis,  when he announced his Government's unilateral decision to establish an independent inquiry into the growth of Canberra in April 1975. 
Requests by the Australian Government that the N.S.W. inquiry be reconstituted as a joint Government inquiry and that the terms of reference be widened were unequivocably rejected by the N.S.W. Premier. Subsequently the Australian Government decided not to make submissions to the N.S.W. Inquiry. 
the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The detailed answers provided in Question No. 1736  (Hansard  pages 892-894) were based on information provided by metropolitan sewerage authorities. Since then, in 1974-75 the largest ever annual sewerage works program throughout Australia has been satisfactorily completed. The precise level of costs now involved could only be obtained by again approaching the metropolitan sewerage authorities. 
At a recent conference with my State Ministerial counterparts on the National Sewerage Program, we agreed that Australian Government requests for information should be kept to a minimum. I am therefore unwilling to obtain the information sought by the member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Because of the time factor involved in the compilation of the information I am unable to supply the information requested by the honourable member. 
No commitments have been made under any program which cannot be met. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister in reply to a similar question which appeared on 15 October 1975 (Parliamentary Question No. 3304,  Hansard,  page 2188). 
Tabling of Reports in the Parliament (Question No. 3354) 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of Urban and Regional Development for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have asked the National Capital Development Commission not to give evidence to the public inquiry. 
The reasons for my position are clearly detailed in a Joint Statement I released with my colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory on 20 May 1 975. 
In summary we reject completely the unilateral approach of the N.S.W. Premier,  Mr Lewis.  The Australian Government made every effort, to consider the border growth on a joint basis as had been the case since 1 97 1. Even after the Premier announced the N.S.W. Inquiry the Prime Minister wrote seeking a joint inquiry but this was not acceptable to the Premier. 
The Committee he has appointed is not a representative committee; it is strongly weighted to the interests of property holders and potential speculators in N.S.W. In the circumstances therefore Australian Government Ministers will not give evidence to the inquiry nor will the Australian Government sponsor any submission to the inquiry. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the aim of this amendment is to allow the Australian Housing Corporation to borrow money on capital markets. Economic circumstances and a greater awareness of the problems faced by many people in obtaining housing have prompted a re-assessment of the range of instruments the Government should have available to it in the housing area. The Government has also been encouraged to make this change by the scope of the Housing Corporation for innovation in housing policy. 
Briefly, the amendment is devised to provide widened access to funds by the corporation. This will enable it to help people with a housing need  which cannot be met under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement, or by access to traditional sources of housing finance. The welfare housing provisions of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement now make housing available to those earning up to 85 per cent of average weekly earnings. Use of the provisions of the Home Builders' Account lifts this threshold a bit higher to those getting up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. The private sector provides housing finance for those whose incomes are well above average weekly earnings. 
There is this gap between those earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings and those getting 135 per cent or so of average weekly earnings. In broad terms, this is the gap between where the public sector cuts out and where the private sector starts.  (Quorum formed).  It is this major gap in the provision of housing finance that an important part of the work of the Australian Housing Corporation is designed to fill. In particular, the Government has asked the Housing Corporation to undertake programs for the provision of housing finance on deferred repayment terms. This will be directed to low and middle income groups which miss out under the present structure of the housing market. 
A considerable amount of work has been done in the Departments of Urban and Regional Development, Housing and Construction and the Treasury on this scheme. It indicates that through a deferred repayment mortgage a young family man at about average weekly earnings could be helped to buy an average-priced property without committing more than 30 per cent of his income at any one time to mortgage repayments. This could be done using a deferred repayment formula which involves very low risk of default on the part of borrowers. Funds could be made available on second mortgage, which means that in addition to the benefit of the deferred repayment formula, the non-subsidised interest rate would still be lower than that charged by traditional sources of second mortgage finance. 
There is also a clear need for the Corporation to make finance available on first mortgage. Many people in the community have not been able to get a first mortgage, and therefore have been unable to benefit from a second mortgage scheme, whatever its attractions. These deferred repayment programs are at an advanced stage of preparation and I will announce them in some detail as soon as possible. 
Because of the need to contain the Budget deficit, the funds the Corporation will have available for this scheme in 1975-76 have been limited to only $20m. Because of this constraint on available funds, assistance will be confined in those earning up to 1 10 per cent of average weekly earnings. Eventually, we expect to extend the range of the scheme to those earning up id 135 per cent of average weekly earnings.  (Quorum formed).  It has also been decided to direct available funds to locations such as growth centres and areas being developed by land commissions and urban land councils. In this way. the policies of the Housing Corporation will be closely linked to other urban and regional policies of the Government. 
Apart from the deferred repayments schemes, the Government is devising other policies to be implemented by the Corporation. In 1975-76 ii will have available about $8m for these schemes. It is too early for me to outline these programs in detail. One approach we have in mind is some form of assistance for co-operative housing. I will announce full details of these new programs as soon as possible. It is clear that housing need covers a much wider range of people and locations than the Corporation can reach with its present funds through the Budget allocation. 
The borrowing power sought in this legislation provides the Government with the opportunity to increase funds for Corporation programs by recourse to the loan market. The timing and magnitude of Corporation loan raising will be subject to the normal processes of Corporation advice and Government decision. These decisions will be based on considerations of housing need; the condition of the housing industry; loan programs and borrowing prospects; general economic policy; and urban and regional development policies. The Government expects that these considerations would lead to modest additions to the Corporation's total program in the immediate years ahead. These funds will be augmented soon by a proclamation which will allow the Corporation to retain repayments of capital which come to it from existing Defence Service Homes advances. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 


 - Mr Speaker- 
 (Quorum formed). As I was saying before the suspension of the sitting the funds will be augmented soon by a proclamation which will allow the Housing Corporation to retain repayments of capital which come to it from existing defence service homes advances. In view of the present political confrontation, I want to make it clear that this measure is not related in any way to the Appropriation Bills before the Parliament. This is a long-term measure directed to the future financing of the Corporation's activities. The funds to be raised by the Corporation on capital markets will be governed by the terms and conditions laid down by the Loan Council. The borrowing programs will be subject to approval by the Loan Council. In using the funds raised from capital markets, the Corporation will be bound by the restraints which are incorporated in its legislation. These include the need for virtually all programs to be subject to regulation, a requirement that its accounts shall be in a form approved by the Treasurer and the liability of the Corporation to inspection and audit by the Auditor-General. 
Passage of this amendment will enlarge the ability of the Corporation to meet the needs of thousands of home seekers who have difficulty in obtaining adequate assistance from alternative sources. I stress again that it will benefit low to middle income groups which miss out under existing public and private sector programs. It will also give help to community groups with special needs that can be met by new forms of assistance. The Australian Housing Corporation is already a major financial institution. Its financial assets exceed S 1 billion and it has 200 000 existing mortgage accounts. 
The Corporation is destined to become a great creative force in future housing policy. Of course we all know that it has done a remarkable job in the past, but the magnitude of its development in the future will enable greater achievements. This change in legislation will allow it to raise limited funds on carefully controlled terms from the capital markets of Australia. 1 would stress that the amendment has the effect of giving the Corporation borrowing power similar to that available to other Australian Government statutory authorities such as the Australian Telecommunications Commission. It will give the Corporation the muscle to fulfil its potential as a major supplier of the needs of the home seekers of Australia. The Corporation will work in close cooperation with State authorities and with the private sector in carrying out its work in implementing future housing policies. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Cities Commission Act 1972-1973 I present the annual report of the Cities Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The future use of the Australian Government land at Mt Cotteril (Rockbank) known as the former O.T.C. Receiving Station site is under consideration by my Department in consultation with other Australian Government departments. 
In order to determine the best use of the property investigations are being carried out to determine whether there is any Australian Government or community requirement and in addition the State has been approached to ascertain whether it has an interest. 
This action is in keeping with my Department's efforts to ensure that all Australian Government lands are used to facilitate the implementation of Australian Government policies for the maximum benefit of the whole community. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled  All The People- How Belmont Shire Council, Western Australia Got Funds To Plan Community Facilities For All The People. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled  North West Tasmania Regional Water Supply Scheme.  Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The Opposition spokesman, the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  has just put forward the Opposition's proposals for Commonwealth-State financial arrangements. The Opposition's new approach to federalism would worsen the overall financial position of the States. It would operate in a very discriminatory way against the smaller States and would be weighted heavily in favour of New South Wales and Victoria. Furthermore, it would destroy the marked improvement of local government finances that the Australian Government policies have stimulated over the past  2lA  years. In total the Opposition's policies are incoherent and illogical. They would swiftly prove disastrous to the whole spectrum of federal financial relationships if an attempt was made to implement them. 
There can be no doubt that the discriminatory surcharge rebate system as proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would tend to favour the States of New South Wales and Victoria against the other 4 States. Already there has been concern and great discussion even within his own Party because, with their greater taxable capacity, those 2 big States would be able to set lower taxes. This is precisely what has happened in Canada which operates a system which has some similarity to  Mr Fraser  's proposal. Let me give an example from Canada. The rates of provincial income tax set in 1972 in the smaller eastern seaboard States were as follows: Newfoundland 36c; Prince Edward Island 36c; and Nova Scotia 36.5c. Yet the Pacific State of British Columbia with its strong economic base had the lowest rate of tax in Canada- 30.5c. That is a genuine example of the lack of understanding of people in the Opposition ranks. 
We should examine the record of the financial debt situation in those long and dreary 23 years of government by the Opposition ranks. The internal debt of the Commonwealth, the servicing debt, during that period remained static. The servicing debt of the States increased sevenfold. The servicing debt of local government increased 2000 per cent. The servicing debt of semigovernment authorities increased some 2800 per cent. When the Whitlam Government took power in December 1972, 50 per cent of homes in Perth were unsewered In Sydney and Melbourne one in every seven families was in an unsewered area. Let us look at the debt burden on the sewerage authorities. For every dollar that was collected by the sewerage authority in Perth 50c had to be paid by way of debt burden. In Sydney it is 53c. In Newcastle it is 52c. In Melbourne, the capital of the State from which the Leader of the Opposition comes, 58c is paid by way of debt burden for every dollar collected. Why was this brought about? It was brought about because of the policies of the Menzies, Holt, Gorton and McMahon governments. They gave the States and the local governments responsibilities but they did not give them the financial muscle to deal with the matter.  (Quorum formed) 
Let me examine the plight of local government in the electorate of McPherson, the electorate of the Opposition spokesman in this debate. In 1974-75 we made available $180,000 to Albert Shire, and in 1975-76 we made available $250,000. In 1974-75 we made available $30,000 to Beaudesert Shire and this year we made available $65,000. In 1974-75 we made available $28,000 to Boonah Shire and $55,000 this year. Last year we made available $47,000 to Moreton Shire and this year we made available $64,000. In other words, we have made available $719,000 to local government within the electorate that the honourable member for McPherson represents. The money was made available in direct grants- interest free, nonrepayable with no strings attached. The shire councils could spend the money as they saw fit. With regard to sewerage expenditure in the Gold Coast area that the honourable member for McPherson represents, what happened under 23 years of administration by the past Government? 
Eighty-two per cent of the Gold Coast- the affluent Gold Coast- was unsewered 
It certainly was effluent, and it certainly ruined the natural environment in that area. But what has happened since we have been in government? In the first year we made available $2m, in the next year we made available $l.lm and in the following year we made available $2.4m. We made available $5.5m to the Gold Coast to sewer that so-called affluent area that the Queensland Government under Bjelke-Petersen or successive conservative Australian governments could not do anything about. We made available $5.5m and 30 per cent of that amount was in the form of interest-free, non-repayable grants. The other 70 per cent was allocated at the long term bond rate repayable over 40 years. We made a further $50,000 available to try to catch up with the environmental problems that the sewerage problems were creating in that area. Again the money was in the form of a direct grant. With regard to the Regional Employment Development program we tried to catch up with the backlog in the local government area. We made available $ 1.93m. These are just some aspects of our assistance. 
In the few moments that I have available to me I should like to comment particularly on that aspect of the Local Government Grants Bill in this cognate debate. This Bill implements the recommendations of the Grants Commission of financial assistance to local government for 1975-76. As in the previous year the Australian Government has accepted without change the recommendations of the Grants Commission. This year $79.9m has been made available to 845 local government authorities. That makes an increase of some 42 per cent over the $56.3m made available last year, which was the first year in which grants were made available. This is a significant increase. I stress that the money was made available to local government bodies with no strings attached. 
There is a feeling in some sections of local government that this sort of assistance should be vastly increased. At the moment the Grants Commission assistance is made up of 30 per cent of the Australian Government's payments to or for the States. The Government would be reluctant to extend the scope of untied assistance. In my view it is now at an adequate level. The Government is prepared to make available a certain level of untied assistance, for topping up purposes, for local government bodies. However, it is not prepared to make available all assistance to local government on an untied basis. It is the job and the responsibility of the Australian Government, in dialogue with State and local governments, to set policies and priorities and to ensure that they are fulfilled. It is also its duty to be accountable for its spending and to prevent the waste and misallocation of resources. In these circumstances it would be grossly irresponsible to hand over all assistance to local government without retaining any influence on how the money is to be spent. It would also encourage the worst sort of elitism in local government. The existing inequalities would be preserved and even intensified; the firm objectives of the Government to lift the standard of services provided by the poorer councils and shires would be defeated. In all of these circumstances we reject the call for putting all assistance to local governments on untied bases. 
It should be noted that under this Government there has been a dramatic increase in the total level of payments to local government. This has occurred with direct payments and with payments through the States. The Budget estimates reveal that a total of $230m will be passed to local government authorities in 1975-76 compared with $140m last financial year. This is an increase of around 64 per cent. Even allowing for the fact that many of the program funds for local authorities were committed in the previous financial year, this is a significant increase. Certainly there are very serious financial problems confronting local government; I gave figures earlier in this respect. It will take time to overcome the backlog that was created by the mismanagement of the previous Government. It should be recognised that these problems would be much more severe without the very substantial increase in the assistance given at present by the Australian Government. 
I turn to the allocations to individual local government authorities in 1975-76. There was a short sharp drop in the number of councils that received assistance. In fact only 30 councils did not get a grant in both years. Looking at the councils which have not been given assistance it is clear that they are the wealthier councils, councils such as the Sydney City Council, the Melbourne City Council, the Adelaide City Council and the Perth City Council. But on the other hand, the Brisbane City Council, which has a greater expanse of land and broader and greater responsibilities, had its grant increased from $2m last year to $2.5m this year. In some circumstances there may be a change in these programs of assistance to local government, but we want to assist that local government where the need is  most. We do not want to use again the acrosstheboard broad brush approach. I believe that the second year's operation of the Grants Commission has been much more efficient than was the case in the first year when mistakes were made. Analysis of the figures shows that the metropolitan councils have been given a fair share. Again, propaganda from the other side of the House has been that the assistance given to city bound councils is greater than that given to rural councils. Again that is a falsity. In fact, the figures show that the expenditure for councils across the board was on average $4.38 per head of population. For councils in capital cities the expenditure per head of population averages $2.92. For councils in non-metropolitan areas, the average per capita figure is $6.68. My officers have prepared a table which gives significant figures. I ask for leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The new communications centre being constructed as an extension of the Department of Foreign Affairs is scheduled for completion late in 1 976. 
$3,844,700. 
I previously answered a question from the honourable member for Wide Bay in this House by saying that all applicants up to 3 1 July would have had their commitments met immediately. An amount of $70m was available under the provisions of the Supply Act and that money will be exhausted in the third week of 
November. That means that we will now not be able to meet those commitments to applicants who applied up to 3 1 July this year as quickly as we would like. From 1 December, because of the provisions of the Housing Corporation Act there will be at least an income of approximately $8m a month. Of that amount, $4.5m will be capital repayment and we will be able to use that money for those people who have entered into commitments. But our commitments are running at $10m a month and many people who made applications prior to 31 July we will now not be able to pay. I want to make it quite clear with regard to the stopping of Supply that those exservicemen opposite who wear their badge with pride must realise that they are the ones who are inflicting this hardship on ex-servicemen and their dependants. 
in reply- In summing up I thank the Opposition for agreeing with the approach taken by the Government. I think the major aspect to bear in mind, apart from stopping pollution, is the importance of the Commonwealth-State relationship that has been achieved in bringing about this Bill because, as has been said, between 1962 and 1972 no agreement had been entered into. Had we not formed the Government in 1972 quite frankly I doubt that the Opposition, which was then in government, would have really been able to bring about this agreement. Even though the Opposition has charged this Government- the Whitlam Government- over and over again with being a centralist government, one which starves the States of funds, in fact this is a good example of how we have been able to get together with the New South Wales Government on a real basis of co-operation to solve a very difficult problem. 
The only other aspect I want to emphasise relates to comments by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  the spokesman for the Opposition on this matter. He said this legislation was not of very great significance. 
I realise that, but the whole point about the environment is that little mistakes build up into a great bundle of mistakes. So the quality of the water which reaches Adelaide is interrelated with this matter. This Government that is now in power had to commit itself to $80m on 1972 values to try to bring about purification of that water system. Nobody knows how important this is more than the honourable member for Sturt whose electorate has probably got the worst quality water of any federal electorate in South Australia. Yet he says this legislation is not of any real importance. This legislation is of great importance because the mining refuse at Captains Flat is related to the pollution of the River Murray system over the years. Even though Captains Flat is on the Molonglo River the water from this river runs into the Murrumbidgee which in turn runs into the Murray. This is how this whole question of the interrelationship arises. This is why we in the Department of Urban and Regional Development and also the Department of Environment look into every interrelationship, try not to minimise issues and try to look at the broad picture. 
I want to say something, as my colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  did, about the teamwork involved in bringing about this agreement. I want to thank the officers in the Department of Urban and Regional Development, the Department of Capital Territory and the Department of the Environment who were able to work with their counterparts in the States in order to try to solve this problem. I have found from experience that the only way we can get co-operation in Australia, State and local government affairs if for the people at the bureaucratic level, the officers, to build up a basis of trust after political leadership is provided. This brings about co-operation between all levels of government and is the way to solve problems relating to urban and regional affairs or the environment. That is the only way we can work together. To a great extent I believe that this legislation is a step in that direction and I commend that Bill to the House. I am pleased to hear the Opposition at last giving us support. We in the Government are grateful for any crumb that falls from the table of the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 28 May 1975 my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services the honourable F. M. Daly wrote to the right honourable member informing him that where possible action would be taken progressively to improve the access and facilities available for disabled persons in Australian Government buildings. 
As Minister now responsible for such matters I reiterate that it is the Government's policy to provide access and other facilities for disabled people in newly constructed Government buildings and wherever possible to upgrade existing buildings. 
A continuous evaluation program to establish the feasibility of converting existing premises has been set up by my Department and in quite a number of cases these additional facilities have already been provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
The Commission of Inquiry into land Tenures did recommend that land disposed of for residential purposes should be granted on the basis of fee simple titles subject to improvement conditions and the reservation of development rights. However for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory it was recommended that residential land be held under perpetual leases subject to the reservation of development rights and to the payment of capital premiums on allocation but not to rental obligations. 
As no agreement has been reached between the Australian Government and the Government of New South Wales in relation to areas of New South Wales proposed to be used for Canberra growth by extending the borders of the A.C.T. no question of tenure for these areas has yet been considered. 
A statement of the Government's position in relation to a number of recommendations of the Commission was made in the Prime Minister's Press Statement of August 6 1974. At this stage of the Commission's deliberations no further statement is contemplated. 
The Government is trying to keep up the supply of money to maintain full employment in the sewerage program. As honourable members are aware, all capital works are of a major labour intensive nature. We are doing our utmost to make sure that unemployment does not occur. At this stage we can only guarantee the situation until Supply runs out. Approximately $40m was made available under the Supply Acts but there is provision for approximately $70m more in the Appropriation Bills. If the Appropriation Bills are not passed a great deal of unemployment could be created by the action of the Opposition. I hope that those honourable members from the appropriate electorates where the sewerage program is in fact being carried out to meet a social problem, particularly areas in the western suburbs such as the electorate of the honourable member for Mitchell, will be aware that they are restricting employment by preventing the carrying out of work on social problems. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a volume of studies commissioned by the Committee of Commonwealth-State Officials on Decentralisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
1 ) There is no detailed estimate of the acquisition cost at this stage, although the magnitude of the acquisition process is recognised. 
It should be noted that any acquisition undertaken by the Australian Government be on the basis of fair and just terms. 
The extension of the border of the A.C.T. is the recommended option for catering for the future growth of Canberra. Any acquisition of land within an expanded A.C.T. would be consistent with Australian Government policy since federation that the National Capital be developed on land acquired by the Australian Government. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by saying that in 1973 the then Lord Mayor of Sydney, together with the Government of New South Wales, approached the Australian Government to make a tripartite agreement for the redevelopment of 
Woolloomooloo on a residential basis. It has been publicly disclosed that the Prime Minister approached  Sir Eric  Willis during the recent Premiers Conference to cancel the agreement on Woolloomooloo reached by the 3 levels of government. Will the Prime Minister inform the House on whose advice was the agreement for residential development to house 7,000 people in Woolloomooloo cancelled, instead of which office construction is to proceed? Can he also give details of the statement that Alderman Leo Port would not have any difficulties in planning if the redevelopment were to be based on office construction instead of housing development? 
-This morning I raised during question time the subject of the redevelopment of Woolloomooloo. I raised this question because the text of a letter from the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  was published on the front page of the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 14 February. The letter read as follows: 
My dear Minister, 
During the Premiers' Conference session today, I talked to  Sir Eric  Willis about the redevelopment of Woolloomooloo. 
We agreed that the redevelopment of Woolloomooloo should properly take the form of office construction and not vastly expensive cheap housing as has been proposed. 
He said he did not think Alderman Leo Port would have any difficulties if planning were to be based on office rather than housing development. 
You may wish to explore this further. 
Yours sincerely, (Malcolm Fraser) 
I was astounded that a government could take such action because the agreement concerning the redevelopment of Woolloomooloo had taken a great deal of time to negotiate. In my question this morning I pointed out that the original request for the redevelopment proposal of Woolloomooloo envisaged that the then Lord Mayor of Sydney in 1973, the Government of New South Wales and the Australian Government would enter into a tripartite agreement. In my question this morning I asked the Prime Minister in part: 
Will the Prime Minister inform the House on whose advice was the agreement for residential development to house 7000 people in Woolloomooloo cancelled, instead of which office construction is to proceed? 
I asked still further- and I am still interested to know the answer- whether he would also give details of the statement that Alderman Leo Port would not have any difficulties in changing the planning proposal of redevelopment to office construction instead of housing for the people of Woolloomooloo. The Prime Minister in reply said in part: 
It was quite natural that in looking at the extravagances of the previous Government any particular program would be examined. 
Of course, he was talking about a grant of $ 17m that had been made by the Australian Government to the New South Wales Government to acquire land to overcome the problems of the redevelopment of Woolloomooloo. This arrangement also included the provision that there would be a progressive transfer to the New South Wales Government of land that was owned by the Australian Government so that the problems in respect of the development could be overcome. 
The historical situation is that in the late 1960s and the early 1 970s some 7000 people were living in the Woolloomooloo basin. However, because of speculation by land developers and collusion between those developers and the Askin Government of New South Wales a re-zoning proposal was put forward to implement a grand $400m development proposal in the Woolloomooloo basin. That basically was the situation. The requirements of that development were so drastic that tragically people were driven out of the Woolloomooloo basin. As a result the population has been driven down from 7000 in the late 1960s to about 700 in the middle 1970s. 
I want to talk about the corruption that took place in respect of the redevelopment proposal of Woolloomooloo because there has been no real understanding of the situation. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works heard evidence in 1972 on the proposed construction of a Commonwealth Centre in Woolloomooloo which was to house 1 5 000 Commonwealth public servants. The Committee was presented with evidence from  Mr Peter  Harrison of Reid, Australian Capital Territory, who is a Fellow of the Urban Research Unit, Research School of Social Sciences, Australian National University and formerly the Director of Town Planning, National Capital Development Commission in Canberra. This evidence is contained in the Committee's transcript and I ask that it be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Can the Prime Minister give me details of his strategy in creating the super department by the amalgamation of the Departments of Environment, Housing and Urban and Regional Development and then pulling out its teeth by excluding it from the Economic Committee of Cabinet thus excluding this new department from having any say in Cabinet on economic aspects even though it is responsible for fixation investment in the cities of Australia which represent 85 per cent of the Australian people? 
I direct my question to the AttorneyGeneral. Was the AttorneyGeneral's Department requested to prepare an opinion on whether or not the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition last Thursday amounted to contempt of court? If so, who authorised the preparation? Was the opinion made available to the honourable member for Curtin? Was there any discussion on the matter between the AttorneyGeneral and the honourable member for Curtin? 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. You are aware,  Mr Speaker,  that I spoke to you and discussed aspects of the speakers' list between 10 p.m. and 10.30 p.m. that night. I certainly was in the House. The remarks made by the Leader of the House were a reflection on me. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. He would be aware of the inquiry into the national estate which was chaired by  Mr Justice  Hope and that the Hope Committee recommended the setting up of a heritage commission to protect and enhance the national estate. Legislation for the Australian Heritage Commission was introduced into both Houses and passed by both Houses. Does the Government intend to abandon the Heritage Commission and return to the bulldozer mentality that prevailed under the Liberal-Country Party Government between 1950 and 1972? 
I second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  to the motion relating to the Address-in-Reply, the only thing I want to say in reply to the comments of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  is that the Party to which he belongs tore up the rule book, and the conservative forces of this country will rue the day that they took such action on 1 1 November 1975 and the weeks preceding it. 
The Governor-General's Speech was notable for its failure to acknowledge the election promises of this Government. The short history of this Government already is characterised by the sacking and prosecution of a Minister. That demonstrates complete disregard for the conventions of our democracy in that the former Minister was party not only to a breach of the Constitution but also to a breach in our electoral law. This Government's history is characterised by broken promises. It is characterised by a ruthless exercise of power on the part of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It is characterised by dissembling by the Prime Minister who is addicted to meaningless phraseology and who even puts its senior public servants at risk by saying one thing and meaning another. They cannot be blamed for that because even  Mr Speaker  on occasions has had difficulty in plumbing the depths of the real meaning of the Prime Minister's words. We have heard conflicting statements, and even have been treated to public repudiation of a number of promises on a number of issues. We have had the Prime Minister being unmasked by  Mr Wran,  the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales.  Mr Wran  also caught out Premier Willis, for publicly lying over the proposed development of 
Woolloomooloo. We have had Fraser, Anthony and Greenwood making conflicting statements about Albury-Wodonga. The Prime Minister says that it is to be cut, it is to be stopped. The others say that it will not be stopped. 
But by their scrapping of the Public Service transfer programs they have killed a great and exciting concept. The Prime Minister could still write to the Victorian Minister for Planning and Local Government,  Mr Hunt,  saying that his Government remains committed to the growth centres, especially Geelong. Or is this just another piece of window dressing for the purpose of the election campaign in Victoria? 
To what does the Governor-General's Speech refer? It refers to the Government's setting out to help the disadvantaged by leaving him a maximum of independence. That at least is a novel way of justifying deferral of the age pension increases. The pensioners will be pleased that their newly restated independence is slowly eroding their living standards as food prices gallop ahead. This is also a novel way of justifying the cutting of deferred mortgage repayment schemes for housing loans for the low income families who are already struggling to exercise their independence. 
The Governor-General's refers to the cuts in administrative expenses but it does not explain that the burden of these cuts is carried by the lower paid officers in the Public Service. It does not explain the reduction in job opportunities for clerical assistants and secretarial staff which allows the bureaucracy to come below the staff ceilings. It does not explain that this means that it is the women especially who have been forced to carry the burden of this so-called economy measure. I hope that the newly elected honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  understands clearly the pressure that these measures will cause here in Canberra. The GovernorGeneral's Speech refers to cuts in expenditure by Ministers but it does not explain how the Prime Minister could justify the expense of a butler in his new residence. Nor does it explain the wider and freer use of VIP flights or the proposed construction and equipping of private aerodromes. 
The Governor-General's Speech is notable for many things, but it is perhaps most notable for what it does not say. Rather than range across the many obvious weaknesses and omissions I will concentrate on just two. Firstly, let me refer to the cities. There is not one reference to the cities where 85 per cent of Australians live. This Government would seem to have no conception of the problems faced in the provision of serviced land, sewerage and decent public transport. The problems faced by the people living in our major cities in obtaining access to a reasonable level of facilities is something that honourable members opposite know nothing about. So far the only initiatives of which we know that this Government has taken concerning the cities is the attempted rape of Woolloomooloo. The Woolloomooloo scheme is an example of co-operative federalism involving the agreement of 3 levels of government in an attempt to solve the problems of the inner city. It is concerned with the welfare of people and with keeping our cities as attractive and exciting places in which people can live, not stunning them into concrete jungles. We would not have known about these initiatives of scrapping the Woolloomooloo scheme had it not been for  Mr Wran,  the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales. 
For 2 decades we have witnessed LiberalNational Country Party governments destroying the inner cities and the cities of Australia. By their action and inaction they encouraged the over centralism of urban development with never a thought for the problems of the people of those cities. For over 20 years we fought the Government for allowing the rape of our cities by foreign investment, particularly for the overcentralisation of the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. It is like a voyager deriving some sordid satisfaction from the plunder and pillage that it encourages. By its action in allowing foreign investors and major insurance companies to acquire control of freehold land in the centre of those cities, it has returned to this sorry state. 
The Government sold the farm to anyone who asked for it. It allowed the insurance companies to use the savings of the people to destroy their own way of life. This Parliament has complete power over insurance companies. Yet in the decade from 1960 to 1970 the increased investment of insurance companies in the major cities of this country increased from $ 1 12m to something like $ 1,200m. The Government engaged in asset stripping on a monumental scale when it forced the State governments to run down the public transport systems of our major cities. It acquiesced in the destruction of the inner city living space. It acquiesced in the destruction of communities by encouraging the construction of freeways through inner city residential areas. It forced the people to live in unserviced outer suburbs, without schools, hospitals and a wide variety of services and facilities which, we are continually told, are the standard for our society. 
The Government systematically set out to lock people in their communities by saddling them with large mortgages on their homes. It systematically rigged electoral boundaries so that it could always look after its supporters and be in a position to abuse and disregard the Constitution when it suited the Government. In our 3 years in office we began to tackle the problems of providing sewerage and better suburban areas. We began to overcome the problems of sewerage backlog, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne. In Melbourne alone we have spent tens of millions of dollars trying to catch up the sewerage backlog and the pollution of Port Phillip Bay. We made massive investments in public transport. We showed our confidence in and recognition of the need for good local services by making funds generously available to local government. We initiated programs to tackle the high price of residential land, and we succeeded in curbing the rising price of residential land for young people. We developed growth centres to reduce the pressure on Sydney and Melbourne and to provide country people with access to a higher standard and wider range of services. We started to change the distribution of employment in the cities to give the outer suburban population reasonable access to jobs. 
We took action to protect the National Estate. Now we note from the Speech that the Government has learnt nothing and cares nothing for the people in the cities or the way they want to live. The people have been deluded into accepting that $1 spent on essential public services is somehow inflationary or somehow immoral, whereas $1 spent by the private individual is not. This is a fallacy and a myth and must be exploded quickly. The decision not to staff the Heritage Commission and now its foreshadowed abolition is an attack on our people, our birthright, our heritage. This Government has succumbed to the bulldozer mentality that it permitted between the years 1950 and 1972. The cutbacks already proposed in the urban programs and the failure in this Speech to acknowledge their needs are a direct attack on the quality of life and the standard of living of all Australians. It must be understood that 85 per cent of Australians live in our cities. The Government talks about incentives for private industry and the need for business confidence. Where is the endorsement of the growth centre program which is absolutely fundamental if private enterprise is to plan confidently and to continue investment in these centres? 
The only reference made to housing in the Governor-Genral's Speech is to the effect that the Government will introduce legislation to establish a new home savings grant scheme. 
However, the public is left with numerous uncertainties. We are not told when the scheme will commence or how it will operate. We are told that for a family to be eligible for a maximum grant under this scheme it must save at least $26 per week for 3 years. The Government has failed to understand that the real problems faced by people in purchasing a home today are as much in servicing the land as in the initial deposit. The previous home savings grant scheme worked very much to the disadvantage of lower income families. 
This proposed home savings grant scheme is symptomatic of this Government's attitudes and its policies. It is just like the superphosphate bounty scheme- only the rich really benefit. An Australian Labor Party government by now would have been lending money on more flexible repayment terms to assist families in making their housing repayments in accordance with their means. All this has been destroyed now that the Government has decided to abolish the Australian Housing Corporation. 
I turn now to the economy. The GovernorGeneral's Speech refers to unemployment. It purports to seek to stimulate investment and to reduce unemployment. Every action this Government has taken has increased unemployment. I stress that fact. We initiated a program to stimulate investment in the non-housing sector of the building industry, which is near total collapse now. What did the Fraser Government do? It scrapped the proposal to expend $80m to stimulate the building sector in selected areas of cities and growth centres. We agreed to maintain the rate of construction of government housing. We increased the expenditure on welfare housing from $167m in the last year of the McMahon Government to $365m for this financial year. We would have been prepared to increase that amount further at the latter part of the second financial year if the States needed the extra finance. But it is clear from recent statements that this Government will not do that. This will lead to more unemployment. 
The Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  talk of increasing confidence in the economy yet the Prime Minister reneged on his election promise on wage indexation. Is that the way to increase confidence? We have been told that the economy is in bad shape and that we must reduce expenditure. But the new Government cannot find areas of wasteful expenditure. In any event, the new subsidies for superphosphate and the other tax investment allowances will result in a net increase in the deficit. In managing the economy the Government is obsessed with the problem of the money supply. Its simple-minded Friedmanite approach fails to understand that the rate at which money circulates is at' least as important as the volume of money. Moreover, their broad-brush approach ignores the problems of particular industries, in particular the sectors of our community which were ignored for the 2 decades prior to 1972. 
We have an incredible spectacle of the Government's ill-judged savings bond draining money off from savings banks and building societies. The immediate effect of this will be to reduce the rate of lending for housing which would utilise still under-employed resources. In other words, unemployment will be increased. At the same time the Government has decided to continue the suspension of quarterly tax instalments. The only certain thing about that decision is that it will add to the money supply in the short run, and cause an even bigger crunch when those tax instalments eventually are paid later in the year. 
By what logic does the Government drain off the money supply on the one hand and then increase it on the other? The money was doing some good while it was being lent for housing and for public works construction. But to cut back on this while increasing Government liquidity for a few months will only change the circulation of the money supply and make no difference to company investment. For some obscure reason the Government believes that this country will experience an investment-led recovery. That is contrary to the experience and predictions of other countries. The only member country of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to try this was France and it dropped it because it did not work The OECD is cautioning against investment allowances. For example, it says in its most recent  Economic Outlook. 
Business fixed investment seems unlikely to become a major factor of strength until economic slack is significantly lower than at present. 
All that the much bandied investment allowance will do will be to increase the profits of private companies. The money going to private companies will be paid for in a way that will result in people suffering. It will come from the cancellation of various welfare programs, the deferring of the pension increases, the introduction of subsidies to rich farmers, the tax allowances to increase company profits, the inconsistent behaviour in relation to the money supply and the haste to get out of public participation in development and exploitation of our mineral and energy resources. Even the governments of countries like France and Germany have no hesitation in being involved in the exploitation of their wealth in respect of uranium and other minerals, but this is not the case with our country. We do not want to involve ourselves. 
Honourable members opposite do not want to soil their hands with public ownership. They want to sell out to foreign interests. They do not want to develop Australia's wealth in our own way. The abject grovelling of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in Japan trying to give away our iron ore and coal was in fact a sorry state for Australia. It is clear that this is a big business government. We have to understand that the Government clearly represents that 2 per cent of companies- these 400 companies out of the 200 000 companies that make out taxation returns; that 2 per cent of companies which made $2,000m alone last year which was 50 per cent of the profits of all companies. It is clear that the Government aim is to achieve so-called economic stability at the cost of lowering the living standards of working Australians. 
The Governor-General's Speech reveals at once the poverty of ideas of the Fraser Government and the naked aggression it will employ ruthlessly to exploit the lower income groups in our society for the advantage of the rich and the wealthy. This is the group that the so-called Liberals stand for in this place. Honourable members opposite represent a very select group of people in Australia- a few people and few powerful companies. Honourable members opposite are the charlatans of those companies. I ask all honourable members to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins). 
-The Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  spoke about courtesy. He did not even pay me the courtesy of advising me that he was going to deal this matter in the adjournment debate. I heard only the last couple of minutes of his speech. The first of the 2 issues I heard him discuss related to whether the Government should proceed with the $80m project that the former Labor Government wanted to enter into with private contractors for the construction of office buildings to enable Commonwealth public servants to be housed in correct locations and to try to stimulate the building industry. Time and again I have challenged the Government and said that it will renege on that proposal. The Minister referred to the surplus office accommodation in the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne. Let us analyse the situation. That surplus space is there because during the time of the Government that was in office between 1950 and 1972, and particularly in the period between 1960 and 1972, investment by insurance companies in office space in the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne increased from $112m to $ 1,200m thus creating a glut in office space in those cities. At the same time, the then Government permitted foreign investment to come into this country unchecked, unplanned, uncontrolled and to overbuild those central business districts. Sydney extends 35 miles to the west, 35 miles to the south-west, 20 miles to the north and 20 miles to the south. Many of the people in the fringe area of Campbelltown, 35 miles to the south-west of Sydney, are living in squalor. Over 50 per cent of the people of the area work in or near the central business district of Sydney. The Labor Government said that it was going to do Something positive. The proposal by the Liberal Government to construct office space at Woolloomooloo to house another 1 5 000 Commonwealth public servants would have cost $70m on 1972 values. The Labor Government said that construction of that building should not proceed, .but an office block to house 5 000 public servants should be built at Parramatta. That program was under way, but this Government has cancelled it. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  knows that, but he will not get off his backside to do anything about it. 
I turn to the private office developers. The Labor Government knew that there was a slump in the building industry. We knew that even with normal public service expansion 500 000 square feet of office space was needed every year to house Commonwealth public servants. We also knew that in order to lift what in many cases were the substandard conditions in which public servants were working, we had to acquire another 500 000 square feet every year. So one million square feet of office space was needed every year to catch up on Public Service accommodation. Therefore, the Labor Government said that instead of buying up the glut of office space in the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne we wanted office space in what we regarded as the correct locations. We determined that government office space in Melbourne should be located at places such as Broadmeadows, Sunshine, Dandenong and Watsonia to try to bring some balance to the transport system. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife),  who is present in the chamber, is a former Minister for Transport in New South Wales. He knows that the transport system of Sydney cannot work with any efficiency because it is geared to a peak load. Unless commercial development takes place at transport nodes at places such as Parramatta, Liverpool, Penrith and Campbelltown to bring some balance to the transport system the problems of transport cannot be solved. The stupidity of the  laissez-faire  policy of the conservative government that governed for 20-odd years caused the chaos that exists in Sydney and Melbourne. It is responsible for the glut of office space. It is why the transport system fared so badly. The Labor Government said that it would solve the problem. It said that it would bring about a balance by encouraging private sector development in the areas of Sydney and Melbourne that I have mentioned, thereby killing 2 birds with the one stone by giving a stimulus to the economy. That is the kind of government initiative that was to be taken in co-operation with the private sector. 
When I was Minister for Urban and Regional Development I took the initiative in acquiring the Glebe lands. They were offered to the Australian government or to any government agency that wanted to acquire them when Archbishop Loane appeared before the Henderson inquiry into poverty. The Labor Government looked at the matter in a rational way. It engaged a group of consultants to make a feasibility study. They recommended that if we paid no more than $ 18m it would be an economic proposition. We paid $ 17.5m. In the first year following acquisition we paid $1.5m in rehabilitation, and it is estimated that this year a further $2m will be spent, but in the first year we received something like $600,000 in rent. 
Why did we buy the Glebe estate? We bought it for 3 reasons. The first was to ensure that the low income earners who were living there would not be driven out of the inner city to such fringe areas as Mount Druitt and Seven Hills, allowing the petty bourgeoisie to move in and take over the terrace dwellings which are now so fashionable in Paddington, as they are in Carlton and other places. The second reason was that it was a townscape over 100 years old that was worth keeping because for too long the people have suffered under the policies of a conservative government. The present Government has even failed to go on with the Australian Heritage Commission which was a positive recommendation of  Mr Justice  Hope of the New South Wales Supreme Court following his inquiry into the national estate. I ask the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  whether the Government is going to go on with the Commission or whether it will destroy it? We considered Glebe part of our national estate and a townscape over 100 years old which was worth preserving. The third reason was to try to prevent further freeway development. The honourable member for Farrer, when he was Minister for Transport in New South Wales, was a little more sympathetic than previous Ministers in this respect. The Main Roads Department in New South Wales was prepared to cut a swathe through the Glebe estate and destroy the houses there to put in another inner city freeway. Freeways have not solved any problems. Once the estate became Australian property we said that no freeways would be built through this area. 
Tonight I have had to answer the Minister for Construction because the matters about which he spoke were former responsibilities of mine. The policies of the former Government were positive policies and something of which we should be proud. It would do the present Government good if it carried on the programs we proposed for Woolloomooloo and Glebe. It is time it got off its backside and did something for the construction industry by taking up the former Government's proposal to inject $80m into the construction industry. The industry needs a stimulus, and that is what the Government should be giving it. 

 Mr McLEAY (Boothby-Minister for Construction)  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by stating that on 24 February in response to a question asked by my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes, the Prime Minister maintained that the recent issue of Australian savings bonds had not caused building societies in New South Wales to increase their interest rates, rather that the rates charged in New South Wales were generally lower than those charged elsewhere and that the increase in New South Wales was only to bring that State into line with other States. I ask whether that statement was in conflict with a statement made by  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who, in a paper delivered to the Metal Trades Industry Association, stated in part: 
In 1975, permanent building societies and savings banksthe main repositories of household savings- attracted a net increase in deposits of more than $3,000m, while the Commonwealth's Special Bonds- the security designed for small, non-professional investors- drew a net inflow of a mere $190m. 
I ask the Prime Minister: As permanent building societies and savings banks are the main sources of finance for home buyers and in the light of the general upward trend in home finance rates as currently announced, will the Prime Minister still deny that his Government does not have a definite policy to increase interest rates generally and particularly those in the housing area? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I understand that it has been the policy of his Government to stimulate the private sector. He would be aware that there is an under-use of resources in the non-housing sector of the building industry. In fact there is a very difficult economic slump in that area. Why does the Government not proceed with the $80m office accommodation program that was proposed by the Whitlam Government to build office accommodation at selected centres in Sydney and Melbourne and also at regional growth centres such as Geelong, Albury-Wodonga and BathurstOrange to stimulate the private non-housing sector of the building industry? 
-I direct to the Prime Minister a question which relates to the question I asked him yesterday in regard to office construction. How can he state that if the Whitlam Government's office accommodation program were proceeded with it would take more money from the taxpayers and increase the Budget deficit, when what was proposed was merely to rent accommodation in suitable localities to help the Public Service to service society, particularly in respect of transport systems which at present are overloaded in peak periods, and to reduce the overloading on the infrastructure of the central business district, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne, which occurred under a former LiberalCountry Party administration? As he has indicated that he does not intend to proceed with the program which was proposed by the Whitlam Government, what measures does his Government intend to take to stimulate the construction industry which is now in very difficult circumstances? 
My question, addressed to the Prime Minister, follows on from a question I asked him earlier. Accepting that there is surplus office accommodation for a period of three to five years in the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne, due to the policies of Liberal-Country Party governments between 1960 and 1972, is he aware that the planning lag in this sector of the construction industry is at least 3 years? Is he aware that there is an extreme crisis because of under use of resources in this sector of the construction industry? What action does his Government plan to take to overcome this situation. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  set out in detail the actions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in involving the Commonwealth Police in politics in Australia. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has not answered in any form the criticisms and details set out by the Leader of the Opposition. The Leader of the House traversed a wide number of issues but he did not answer in any way the charges of the use of police in Australian politics as set out by the Leader of the Opposition. The Fraser Government's actions over the last 6 months, but especially the extraordinary actions of the Prime Minister and the AttorneyGeneral in the last week, have been the first ugly step down the road to a police state. The Government has taken on at a minimum of 43 per cent of the population of Australia. I say 'at a minimum' because I am sure it is becoming increasingly obvious to more and more people that the Government's promises mean nothing, its intentions are suspect and its tactics are shameful. 
Our supporters comprise a large cross-section of the Australian population. Generally, we are the wage earners, and this includes the older people who have completed their contribution to the production process of Australia. We are the ordinary people of this country. We include proportionately a large section of the minority groups in Australia and we include the progressive people who give their time and energy to improve the quality of our existence and life. But one will find very few company directors, wealthy graziers and people with powerful international connections amongst our ranks. 
We have a lot in common, we 43 per cent. We also have a great amount of diversity. Any divisions that exist in our ranks are quickly put aside when we go up against the sort of attack that the Government and its interests have found necessary to make on the Labor movement and on the Leader of the Party in the weeks past. 
A short time ago- as recently as a week ago- it would have been inconceivable that any Australian Prime Minister would use police against a parliamentary opponent. People in Australia are now realising that the police can be called in in a variety of ways to examine their activities associated with their legitimate political allegiances and beliefs. Australia is substantially less free than it was a week ago. There has been a huge step backwards since 1 1 November 1975. 
With a closer examination it is possible to see an alarming pattern emerging in the weapons chosen by the Government and the interests it represents to attack the Australian Labor Party and its leader. The media, particularly certain Press proprietors, were the first and most obvious in the attack. People have become aware of the actions of the Murdoch newspapers. Their sales have fallen. Murdoch has become a joke. It really would be funny except that the implications are so serious. We saw, particularly during the so-called caretaker period, the attempt by the Prime Minister to use the bureaucracy for his own political ends. We have seen the use of the law for political purposes- that is, the Constitution and the foreign exchange regulations. There has been a breaking of the fabric of the understanding and the convention that surrounds the law. 
Until recently normal use of these institutions was sufficient for control of society. The institutions are generally controlled by the most powerful economic interests and their servants. These institutions are used to direct and advance objectives which tend to oppress those less powerful in society and those who seek fundamental change. But now we can see that it has been necessary to use the overt oppressive power of the police to advance these interests- an action which will affect the integrity of all policemen. That is the sad situation. The Government puts the brand on all police that they are a 'state' police, that they belong to the Government. The Government has called out the police not against the picket, not against the Eureka Stockade or a moratorium demonstration; this time the Government has called out the police against the Leader of 43 per cent of the population of this land. 
The scope of the attack on the Labor movement has left many people puzzled as to why the attack has been so fierce. Perhaps the answer could be this: All industrial societies including our own are facing very serious problems which have not been experienced at any time in the post-war era- the problems of repression, inflation and a high level of unemployment. These pressures on societies like ours will increase in the coming decade. These pressures will arise out of the problems already mentioned and the measures that will be taken by the ruling economic interests to maintain their relative position and power. 
As always the pressures will be felt most heavily by the people not represented in the ruling power group. They will be felt by the wage earner and his family, by the minority groups and by those people most vocal in advocating fundamental changes to this present system. But these pressures will also inevitably be opposed. The little people of Australia, like people everywhere else in the world, know how to say 'enough ' and to fight in opposition to oppression. Opposition is most effective when it is organised. The Labor Party is the largest organisation that could form a focal point for people under pressure. The Government is well aware of that. Could it be that somewhere in the strategic organisation that works behind the scenes in the Liberal Party and the National Country Party it has been determined that now is the time to crush the Labor Party when it is weakest after its electoral defeat? No one can doubt that the Labor Party provides the only alternative for people under pressure in this economic system, and that, equally, now is the most opportune time to try to get rid of the Labor Party. 
When one thinks about it, there seems little other justification for the extremely heavy handed attack that has been made in the last week on the Labor Party and especially the Leader of that Party. Honourable members opposite have not destroyed the Labor Party and they cannot destroy the Labor Party. Thenattacks on the working population by way of their wages policies, their proposed industrial policies, their increasing of unemployment as a fear weapon and their police repression of the Party of the Labor movement will not be tolerated by the Australian people. As their motives become more obvious the ordinary people of Australia will oppose them. They will require even greater repression to keep us down. They will not keep us down because we of the Labor movement have fought for too long for justice for all. The action of the man who will follow me in this debate, the Attorney-General, in involving the Commonwealth Police in political action is a disgrace. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition that the Attorney-General has only one course- to be a just and decent man and resign from his position. 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service matters. Were the reductions in staff ceilings in the Australian Public Service made without prior consultation with the Public Service Board? If so, was any advice sought from elsewhere, or were the decisions reached purely by a rule of thumb approach? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters. What were the reasons behind the Government's decision to abandon the proposed transfer of certain sections of the Australian Public Service to regional growth centres such as Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange, Geelong and Macarthur? 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for McMillan. Is the right honourable gentleman aware that as a result of the negative policies of successive conservative governments between 1949 and 1972 the rural population of Australia fell from 3 1 per cent of Australia's population in 1949 to 14.7 per cent in 1970? Does his Government now intend to scuttle the selected growth centre policy, which would try to stem this population drift from rural Australia back to the major capital cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne? 
-I want to analyse 2 aspects with which the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  dealt. I want to talk to him and to his bureaucrats who, I hope, will advise him more wisely in future. Firstly, I want to deal with the statement made by the Minister 'that the Government does not want to act before it has thought the matter through.' The Menzies conservative Government was elected in 1949 and it was not until 1972 that they started a decentralisation policy, the setting up the National Urban and Regional Development Authority 2 weeks before it was defeated in 1972. It was such a dynamic government that it took almost 23 years to think that matter through. 
I address myself to the Minister and the bureaucrats who wrote his speech. When they are dealing with the Borrie report I ask them to refer to my Walter Burley Griffin memorial speech of 1972 and other speeches which I made before then in which I dealt with the question of population growth. During the 23 years of conservative administration there was a 1.8 per cent growth in population. When introducing the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill into the House the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  said in his second reading speech that it was estimated that by the year 2000 Australia would have a population of 22m. But even in the speech which I made in that debate, or for that matter in the earlier Walter Burley Griffin memorial speech, I argued against that proposition. I argued that we should work towards a population growth of something like 1.1 per cent, which would mean that instead of having a population of 22 million or 23 million by the year 2000, we would have a population of 17.3m. 
Why did we argue in that way? We said, first of all, that we had to control population to improve living conditions in our urban communities. We said that we should have a selected growth centre policy. The best performance on decentralisation policy was in Britain, which reduced the growth rate in the major cities by at least a million between the end of the war to the early 1970s. If that had been done here we would have been able to slow down the growth rate of our cities by at least one million. We said that if our growth rate continued at 1.8 per cent we would have to get one million people out of our cities by means of our decentralisation policy, and we would have had to absorb the other 9 million people in our capital cities, and most of those would have been living in Sydney and Melbourne. We said that a policy of a 1.8 per cent population growth would be madness. We argued rationally that what we should do was to get at least one million people out of our cities and then the problem of the other 3.3m- one million and 3.3 million added to our present population of 13m makes up the 17.3 million to which I referred earlier- would have been a lesser one. We could have done something for our major capital cities. The reason I have been so much a decentralist and the reason we support a selected decentralisation policy is because of the over-centralisation of New South Wales in Sydney and of Victoria in Melbourne. 
The Government which now occupies the treasury bench argues about the misallocation of resources in the public sector by a Labor Government, but it ignores the fact that between 1960 and 1972 private investors and insurance companies were allowed to build a glut of office accommodation in the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne. Investments in such projects increased from $1 12m in 1960 to more than $ 1 ,200m in 1 972. We argued that that overcentralisation which had existed under the previous Government had to stop and that the only alternative was selected growth centres. We know that it is very difficult to deal with the proposition of selected growth centres. The Federal Treasury is and has been totally opposed to that concept because it believes in  laissez faire  economics and consists of macro-economic minded people. 
I draw the attention of all Government advisers, both Treasury and others, to the reply given today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to a question asked of him during question time. He said that he does not want selected growth centres, that he does not want just to pick a few centres. He said that he wanted scatter-gun decentralisation, that he wanted decentralisation to every country town to which all of our resources can be spread. We have so many resources that the Government can spread them all over the country! That is a fallacy. That was the stupid policy which was adopted by the New South Wales and Victorian governments. They had to abandon that policy and they co-operated with us in supporting a policy of selected decentralisation. 
Why did they do that? The major enemy of decentralisation is transportation. Therefore when we in the Labor Government looked at decentralisation we said that our selected growth centres had to be developed on a major transportation corridor. I believe that the major transportation corridor in this country is that which runs from Newcastle to Sydney, Canberra, AlburyWodonga, Melbourne and Geelong. That is where the Government should put its resources. It has only limited resources and it has to make sure that it uses those resources with great wisdom. It is in that major transportation corridor that we should have made our major investment. The New South Wales Government said independently that the Bathurst-Orange district should be developed. We supported that proposal because the Bathurst-Orange area is on a major transportation corridor, although it was not the major transportation corridor priority. One of the growth centres on the corridor which we had in mind is Macarthur, which is about 35 miles south-west and on the fringe of Sydney. 
Another growth centre is Canberra, which is the major growth centre of this nation. Then there is Albury- Wodonga and, of course, Geelong which is at the other end of the corridor. 
We have to try to integrate our transportation investment with our growth centres. We wanted to slow up the growth rate in the major cities. We wanted to give the young people of this nation a fair go in purchasing a block of land, so that they did not have to pay up to $20,000 for a block of land in the western suburbs of Sydney, 25 miles from the central business district, or $18,000 for a block of land in Melbourne. Land in AlburyWodonga will be selling for between $7,000 and $7,500 at the most. Consequently our young people will have a fair go. We wanted to give them a decent way of life with improved educational, recreational and cultural facilities as well as provide job satisfaction through the provision of diverse job opportunities. In order to get these growth centres off the ground we knew that we had to create a stimulus, and that stimulus was to transfer Commonwealth public servants to Albury- Wodonga and to other growth centres. Every year the Public Service needs at least an extra 500 000 square feet of office space. So in order to upgrade the standard of the Public Service we need each year another half a million square feet of office space. It was felt that it was better to locate that Public Service office space in the selected growth centres rather than in the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne thus adding to the over-centralisation which has been created for so long by the conservative governments of this country. 
If honourable members want to examine the real meaning of economic investment they should look at the work carried out by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. When it was first set up it had some of the best economic minds looking at the macro aspect of the economy. Budget Paper No. 9, prepared by officers of the Department of Urban and Regional Development examines investment in detail and deals with the economy in micro as well as macro aspects. It should be examined by all honourable members. If the Government destroys that system it is destroying something worth while. It will succumb to the broad brush approach or the macro aspect of the  laissez faire  economists in the Treasury. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is the crisis now occurring in Queensland building societies in any way due to the monetary policy of this Government and in particular to the issue of the special Australian Savings Bonds? 
My question, which I address to the Prime Minister, relates to the question I  asked him last week in respect of decentralisation. Is the Prime Minister aware of the report of the committee of Commonwealth and State officials on decentralisation which was tabled in the House by Prime Minister McMahon in October 1972? Is he aware that represented on that committee were the Prime Minister's Department, Treasury, the Department of National Development and other Federal departments as well as State departments? If he is, how could he state as he did that decentralisation would be 'balanced development across a wide spectrum of Australia'- in other words scattergun decentralisation? Is the Prime Minister aware that the report of the committee of Commonwealth and State officials discarded the approach he suggested as the worst possible because of its inherent waste of the limited resources available to Australia? 
I preface my question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister by drawing his attention to the fact that the French Atomic Energy Commission, through one of its subsidiaries, has applied for an exploration licence to search for uranium in New South Wales. I ask: Did the French Atomic Energy Commission make this application with the approval of the Federal 
Government? If not, was the Deputy Prime Minister aware of the French body's intention to apply for a licence? Would the Federal Government grant an export licence to the French Atomic Energy Commission to export uranium in any form if the application in New South Wales was successful and uranium was subsequently found? 
-The States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1976 makes an allocation to the States of $364.6m. It is an allocation made under the Hayden Budget by the Whitlam Government. It is one of the largest amounts of money ever allocated in this Parliament for this type of housing. Under the Commonwealth State Housing Agreement in the last year of the McMahon Government, $169m was made available. In the first year of the Whitlam Government that amount was increased to $2 18m. In the 1974-75 financial year, some $385m was made available. A little over $10m of that amount was made available in the last month of 1975 and consequently was not spent in the financial year 1974-75, but in this financial year. In this financial year, $364.6m has been made available. So over the last 2 financial years, an average of $3 75m has been spent on welfare housing. This was one of our achievements during the 3 years that Labor was in government. The provision of funds for welfare housing was one of the major achievements in the changing of resource allocation in our economy. For a great period of time it has been very difficult indeed for people to acquire a home. Over the years the housing commission waiting lists have grown until they have about 100 000 people on them. In fact in the financial year ended June 1974 there were still some 90 063 people on housing commission waiting lists, and 35 673 of those were in New South Wales. By September 1975 the figure had increased to 108 104, with 38 834-nearly 40 000- of them in New South Wales. Most of those, of course, were in Sydney. One of the major reasons for that situation is that the acquisition of a home, particularly in New South 
Wales and more so in Sydney, is becoming an economic impossibility. In our Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement we set out to overcome that problem; but we also had other interrelated programs in urban and regional development with which I will deal in some respects at a later time. 
Of course, the Labor Government inherited a backlog that had accrued over a quarter of a century. It was extremely difficult to overcome these problems in the short period of 3 years that we were in government. To some extent we dealt with the problem as it concerned people earning up to 85 per cent of average weekly earnings. Those are the people who are eligible for assistance to acquire a home under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. Another group whose income may be up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings was able to be helped through the advance section of the Home Builders Account. That group of people also came within the provisions of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. Even though there was a substantial waiting list, at least those people were in a position to acquire or to rent a home under this system. 
Even under our Administration the sad situation arose that, because of the rising costs of construction and land, people whose earnings were between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings could not receive these forms of assistance. That is why, when we set up the Australian Housing Corporation, we tried to use it to overcome some of the problems of that sector of the community. We proposed a deferred mortgage repayment scheme to try to overcome some of the repayment problems, because we found that people earning between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings certainly could not meet the requirement that their mortgage repayments not exceed 25 per cent of their weekly earnings. An amount of $20m was provided in the Hayden Budget for this purpose. But, of course, we know that honourable members opposite have cancelled that proposal and that they intend to abolish the Australian Housing Corporation. In the present circumstances there is no way that people earning between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings will be able to get a home. They cannot meet the necessary deposit or monthly repayments. 
There was another group of people who found it extremely difficult to obtain a home, even under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. I am not trying to say that people should be referred to as the respectable poor and the not so respectable poor, but the facts of life are that to get a loan in order to purchase a house or to rent a house under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement one has to be a part of the respectable poor. The real poor, the needy poor, the alcoholic, the misfit, and sometimes the non-conventional- a great sector of needy poorare not catered for under this Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. I know that my colleagues, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the former member for Phillip, who were Ministers responsible for housing, in fact were concerned about this sector. We were trying to formulate policies for that sector as well. So, we have a problem within our community. Firstly, we have the very needy poor who are not catered for and, secondly, we have the people earning between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
We were trying to deal with these problems in an interrelated manner. In the 23 years prior to our taking government, all the money was being made available for housing construction and in many cases it was being used to create big estates such as the Mount Druitt estate and the developments at Lalor Park and Seven Hills in the western corridor of Sydney, some 25 miles from the central business district or the General Post Office in Sydney. They were located well away from public transport and job opportunities. Very few social amenities at all were available for the people living in those areas. The counterpart of this sort of development near Sydney is the development at the other end of the pendulum in Melbourne, where enormous high rise housing commission development is occurring in North Melbourne. Many problems were created by such development. 
I am not trying to pass the blame on to the State housing commissions, but because money was extremely tight and dear under the previous conservative governments the States had to undertake such development. In the last year of the previous conservative Government, the Commonwealth provided funds for housing to the States at the Commonwealth bond rate. One of the great achievements of the honourable member for Hughes, who introduced the 1973 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, was to bring down that interest rate from the then current Commonwealth bond rate of 7 per cent to 4 per cent. Now the long term bond rate is 10.5 per cent and that housing finance interest rate is still 4 per cent. In other words, under the 1973 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement we are subsidising the States by 6.5 percent on their money. Most of the $364m that is being made available this year is being subsidised by about 6.5 per cent. That is a necessary subsidy. Of course, 30 per cent of that money still goes into the Home Builders Account at an interest rate of  4Vi  per cent, slightly above the 4 per cent rate. But it is a generous contribution by the Australian Government. I hope that this Government does not sabotage the situation so that the States will not be able to proceed in their own way on those generous financial terms. If I have any understanding at all of the Federal Treasury, no doubt enormous pressure will be exerted in the Budget context to try to alter the terms and conditions set down by my colleague the honourable member for Hughes. 
I believe that the whole housing problem has to be looked at afresh and that the community should be more involved in this problem. That is why the Labor Government tried to deal with the many aspects of housing over a wide spectrum. The Labor Government tried to integrate our overall urban policies. We set up what we called an area improvement program in the western suburbs of Sydney. This program was applied to those local government areas that had been saddled, if I could use that term, with large State housing estates. We had to try to bring community centres, child minding centres and health centres into these places so that they could be made gentler areas in which to live. 
We made grants for the planting of trees because this was the last thing in the world on which the housing commissions would spend money. Grants were made for trees to be planted in parks and recreation areas to try to make the areas around them gentler places in which to live. We also tried to improve the modes of transport and to integrate the States' transport systems. Further, we tried to provide job opportunities closer to the housing estates because we knew of the enormous distances people have to travel to and from work. I think there are many aspects of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement that should be examined. I think that the agreement is to some extent a monument. It is something in which we can take pride, but that is not to say that it cannot be improved in the interests of the needy people. 
I want to make some criticisms of the present Government and to give the House some idea of the strategy that was in our minds when determining the amount of money made available last financial year and this financial year. As I have said, in monetary terms approximately the same amount of money was made available this financial year as was made available last financial year. The amount of money in money terms made available last financial year was $38Sm and this financial year it is $365m. As I have also pointed out, $10m was allocated in the last month of the last financial year and this amount will be actually spent in this financial year. This is the amount of money that was set in budgetary terms. Honourable members will know that we were trying within our disciplines to keep the budget deficit as low as we possibly could. We also had in mind that there would be an upturn in the building industry in the second half of this financial year. Unfortunately the stimulus needed to achieve this has not been created to the extent that we believed to be necessary. 
This matter was discussed within the Cabinet of the previous Government and it was thought that if it was necessary to make more funds available to the public sector in the field of welfare housing those funds would be made available if resources, men and material were available. This was the understanding of the Ministers of the previous Government. But of course we know that the last thing that the present Government would ever do would be to increase government expenditure, particularly in the field of welfare housing. We know that there are 2 ways in which the stimulus could be created. One way would be by advancing money through the Builders' Account which would make money available to the terminating building societies. In this way a stimulus would be created in the building industry, in this case in the private sector. At least the State housing commissions certainly could use that money if it was available. 
Another of our policies that we tried to implement in the housing field was the establishment of urban land councils. The need for these instrumentalities can be seen from the enormous waiting lists for housing commission homes in New South Wales, particularly in Sydney. Why is it that 39 000 people are on the waiting list in New South Wales but 19 000 people in Victoria? New South Wales does not have double the population of Victoria. Most of the 39 000 people in New South Wales and 19 000 to 20 000 people in Victoria live in Sydney and Melbourne respectively. Why is there this difference? I suggest that one of the reasons is that the major component in the cost of building a house is of course the enormous cost of residential land. This situation has existed particularly, in the past, again today, under conservative governments in Canberra which have always felt that land is not the prerogative of the Australian Government. When we were in Opposition previously I was able to prove that between 1950 and 1970 the cost of land in New South Wales actually rose 3 'A times faster than average weekly earnings. Urban land is the most inflationary component in the housing sector. Of course, it has levelled out in recent years due to the economic measures that were taken by the Labor Government but I have no doubt that once building pressures come on again the cost of residential land will again start to spiral. 
The Labor Government was able to make money available to a New South Wales conservative Government which entered into an agreement with us to set up urban land councils. The philosophy of the urban land council program was to acquire large tracts of land before they were zoned from non-urban to urban, to buy that land at a reasonable price, subdivide it and develop it both in the public sector and the private sector and make it available to people at a reasonable price. It was proposed that areas would be laid out in a similar manner to land in Canberra so that job opportunities, cultural facilities and other facilities would be available. It was envisaged that the private and public sector would be integrated in this scheme. 
The average price of a block of land in Sydney, for example, some 25 miles west of the General Post Office is between $18,000 and $20,000. The urban land council will be able to make land available now at something like $9,000 and $9,500 a block. That has been another achievement of the previous Government. The New South Wales conservative Government should have had the land on the market for the last few months. However, I have no doubt that because there has been a change of government in the federal sphere this program has been slowed up. 
I commend the New South Wales Housing Commission which co-operated a great deal in integrating its programs and policies in respect of the new concept of the urban land council. I think that in the long term, if money continues to flow from the Australian Government to the State Governments, the welfare housing program will receive a much better deal. But I doubt very much that that will be the case. It is my personal view that the sector that will suffer greatly under the present Administration will be not only the public sector but also the welfare sector which is a most needy sector in our community. I believe that it will be harder and harder for people to acquire and own their own homes. Many people will have to live under difficult conditions. 
I want to point out one aspect of the legislation which is of interest when it comes from this conservative Government even with the enormous majority it has in the House of Representatives and the majority it has in the Senate. Essentially the Bill is a normal special appropriation Bill, but it also includes an extra appropriation to cover the supply period in the 1976-77 financial year. The Bill is unusual in that it appropriates the sum of $ 182.3m for Supply period purposes but then limits the Supply period to 3 1 December. Normally, Supply moneys are available until the end of the financial year, in this case 30 June 1 977, or until they earlier run out. Obviously the Government thinks that by using this technique it will be able to prevent an election being forced on it in the future by appropriation being refused. That could be the only reason for having a clause like this in the Bill. The reference by the Minister in his speech to a non-existent clause bears out this contention. The Minister said: ... the Bill recognises that, in exceptional circumstances as occurred this year when passage of the authorising legislation was delayed, it may be necessary to continue payments beyond the 6-month period for which specific financial provision is made. The Bill provides that interim payments may be made for welfare housing under the authority of section 5 of the Financial Agreement Act 1928 as advances supplementary to the advances under the approved Loan Council program. 
There is no such clause in this Bill. Not only has the Minister shown the Parliament that he does not know what is contained in the Bill but he has also misled the Parliament by stating that certain powers not contained in the Bill are actually there. More importantly, he has shown this Government's intention to put itself above the Parliament by inserting clauses in Bills which would allow it to obtain money for specific purposes without reference to this Parliament. I will leave the lawyers and other advisers to the Government to give the Minister the real reasons why that section has been included in the second reading speech. 
In conclusion, I want to stress that I believe a greater allocation of money should be made to this area, even though we face a substantial deficit at this stage. A lot of resources in the community are not being used and greater sums could be made available without any pressure on the economy. I believe that the number of people on housing commission waiting lists could be reduced substantially from 108 000 while the opportunity is available and while there is either no competition from the private sector or the private sector is not responding as expected. I believe that a stimulus to the public sector, particularly in the welfare area, would provide a stimulus to the economy. It might get the economy moving in such a way that, in an area such as housing, which has a cumulative effect on the economy, people could move back into employment. If more houses are built then more prime cost items such as baths and stoves and refrigerators are needed. More furnishings, more furniture, more carpets and other amenities are needed. In my view, this would assist in creating a stimulus to the economy, and I would encourage the Government to act in that way. 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  who is at the table, only represents the Minister in another place who is responsible for the former Department of Urban and Regional Development, a portfolio which once had some muscle in the Cabinet. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  has power in name only. He has no power in the Cabinet because he is not even on the Government's economic committee. We all know that in resources allocation a Minister needs a voice in the economic committee of Cabinet if he is going to make any impact on Budget expenditure. I believe that the problem of housing assistance will pull down the Fraser Government because the people who were in the saddle for so many years in the Federal Treasury are still there. They look at the economy in a broad-brush way and not in the detailed way that the Department of Urban and Regional Development was set up to do. That Department had some say at least in the more detailed aspects of the economy and considered the human problems that needed to be overcome. It examined problems involving the social, economic and environmental aspects of life, and that is what is needed now. 
That is important when we examine the very delicate problems involved in the lives of people who live in Housing Commission estates. They should not be isolated in far off estates such as those in the western suburbs of Sydney or in the granite pill boxes of high rise development in North Melbourne. We need to have a better social understanding if the people who live in those houses are to lead a fuller life. 
Although the Opposition does not oppose the Bill, we believe that the Government should be encouraged to provide a stimulus to the economy and inject more money into this area than is at present being injected. As I said earlier, if the Opposition were in government now, with the circumstances that are prevailing in the second half of the financial year, I am quite sure it would make available more money for this sector of the economy to try to overcome the backlag in public housing and to give a stimulus to the economy. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. What steps will the Government take to protect the building industry from the effects of the monetary policies being followed by the Government, which already are having a marked effect on the availability of investment funds for that industry as a whole and the residential sector in particular? 
My question, addressed to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Lilley. What action is this Government going to take to overcome the problems in the home building sector in both Queensland and New South Wales caused by his Government's monetary policy? 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of  Sir John  Overall's report on the Albury-Wodonga growth centre? If so, does he agree that the growth centre is of national significance, should have not only the support of his Government as a national endeavour but also should have the Prime Minister's personal backing? 
-My question, directed to the Deputy Prime Minister, is supplementary to that which I asked the Prime Minister. Will the Deputy Prime Minister honour his election promise on Albury-Wodonga and ensure that the Albury-Wodonga growth centre is aided by continued Commonwealth involvement? Will he urge his colleagues to introduce the proposed Australian Government Public Service transfer program as well as urging them to establish a university in Albury-Wodonga in 1978-79, these being particular commitments he made to the people of Albury-Wodonga during the recent Federal election campaign? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Will his Government seek the participation and co-operation of the New South Wales State Government in a Federal-State inquiry into the physical and social consequences of the proposed port development at Botany Bay and any possible extensions to the Sydney Airport? 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, relates to the question just asked by the Leader of the Opposition. I preface my question by saying that the Prime Minister would be aware that there is concern about the slowing down in the private and public sectors of the home building industry. The increase in expenditure of 27 per cent in real terms in the private sector of the home building industry, which occurred in the last 6 months of the Labor Government, now has flattened out due to the Fraser Government's policy. 
-Will the Prime Minister explain the inconsistencies of the Government's policy of trying to stimulate consumer spending on the one hand and on the other encouraging the deferment of spending by the introduction of the home savings grant scheme? 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. What effect would wide use of the technique employed by the New South Wales Government to obtain major transport capital equipment on lease have on the Federal financial structure and the ability of the Commonwealth Government to control the nation's economy? 
-The Australian building industry faces a stark future of sagging investment, dwindling employment and lagging technology. All of the indicators point to a major downturn in the industry over the past few months. In particular, the policies of the Fraser Government have had a savage impact on both the private and the public sectors of an industry which is crucial to economic recovery. I commence by summarising some of these indicators, turning first to the residential sector. Private dwelling investment in 1974-75 fell by about 20 per cent in real terms over the previous year. In particular, the activity in the June quarter of 1975 was the lowest for 5 years. In the second half of last year a very sharp recovery occurred, but there are now grave doubts about whether this spurt in activity can be sustained. In the December quarter of last year private residential investment was 2 1 per cent higher in real terms than in the June quarter. Private approvals and commencements have been strong in recent months. This has been offset by a falling off in public housing activity. 
In normal circumstances there would be grounds for qualified optimism about the future of housing investment. On all the evidence there has been a strong recovery over the past 6 months, a recovery which was generated in the final months of the Whitlam Labor Government. For 2 reasons we must be careful about building too high our hopes for the housing industry. Firstly, the recovery has been rather patchy; it has not occurred in a uniform way across the whole housing industry. Secondly, there are signs that the recovery is flattening out and that some falling off in activity can be expected later this year. There has been not the slightest sign of recovery in the key industrial State of New South Wales. In fact activity in the New South Wales home building industry is still running close to the lowest point of the slump. Overall the recovery has been sluggish. There has been no recovery in New South Wales. There is growing evidence that even the limited recovery in other States in the past few months is fading. In the first half of the 1975-76 financial year spending on home building increased at an annual rate of 27 per cent. On present indications spending on residential housing will fall by an annual rate of about 7 per cent in the second half of 1975-76. This massive slide in home building investment will fall quite severely on private sector home building. During 1975-76 there will be a dramatic turnround in spending on new homes by the private sector. In the first half of the financial year the private sector lifted its spending on new residential construction at an annual rate of just under 29 per cent. On present indications new spending by the private sector will fall by about 1.8 per cent in the second half of 1975-76. 
It is not too hard to find the reason for this falling away of private sector confidence in new dwelling construction. The private sector is frightened of a credit squeeze. It sees the dangers that are emerging from a monetary policy designed to cut back the growth of money supply from about 20 per cent a year to about 12 per cent. The building industry, and in particular the housing industry, bears the major burden of tight monetary policy in Australia. There is a real danger that the present policies will produce a credit squeeze with further damaging effects on the building industry as a whole and on the home building industry in particular. The reduction in the stock of housing finance and the certainty of higher interest rates will deal a terrible body blow to private housing. In particular, these tight monetary policies will hit the housing sector at a time when it is the only part of the economy which has shown any potential for recovery and future growth. Government policy could knock on the head the fragile and uneven recovery which has occurred in dwelling construction in the past few months. 
This trend would be intensified by 2 other factors. The first is the diversion of the bulk of available housing finance into existing dwellings. The latest issue of the Reserve Bank bulletin of economic figures points to the unusually high volume of lending going to existing dwellings during 1975. The Reserve Bank sounded a warning note about housing finance in these terms: 
The absorption of funds into Australian savings bonds seems likely to lead to some moderation of aggregate lending for housing by banks and permanent building societies in the early months of 1976. 
Lack of funds would mean that most of what was available would go to existing dwellings. There would be no incentive for the risk-taking of new construction. The private sector would be starved for funds for new home building. 
A second factor is the danger of a return of rapid increases in the price of residential land. It is not a coincidence that there has been no recovery in dwelling construction in New South Wales, where land prices have stabilised at levels far in excess of the rest of Australia. The grossly inflated price of building blocks has hindered any recovery in New South Wales and in particular in the Sydney metropolitan area. Some of the other capital cities are now facing a very limited supply of residential land. The exception is Adelaide where the South Australian Land Commission's policies and programs are ensuring sufficient stocks of land at suitable prices for the future. The Land Commission was brought about through the co-operation of the Australian Labor Government and the South Australian Labor Government. If the land price spiral takes off again- there are very strong signs that this is likely- there is no prospect of strong and sustained recovery in the residential sector. 
The outlook for the non-residential sector is much more depressing. Quite plainly a very severe crisis exists here. Activity by the private sector is low and is falling. Coupled with a slow down in spending on public works, which the Fraser Government has directed, the industry faces its worst plight since the end of the Second World War. There is no sign of any respite in the present indicators. Let me point to a few. Surveys of builders, investors, engineers and architects point to a low investment at least until the middle of the year. They expect some signs of revival later in the year but if this occurs it will be from a very low base. Surveys of professional groups during 1975 showed a very large fall in work under way. This downturn will flow through from the drawing boards to the construction sites throughout this year. A survey of South Australian firms of architects in January of this year showed that two-thirds had cut their staffs. The value of work in progress was just over half of what it was in the first half of 1 975. It is expected to be down to one-third by June of this year. 
The letting of major tender contracts has fallen sharply. Approvals for private nonresidential buildings have fallen. The amount of work remaining to be done on private sector construction has fallen well below the peak level. This is evidence of a very serious predicament in the private sector of non-residential construction. In total, private spending in this part of the economy fell by about 1 per cent in real terms in 1974-75. The trend downwards continued in the first half of this financial year, and there are signs that that trend will step up in the second half. 
What has the Government done to bolster the badly hit building and construction industry? It is fundamental that the level of activity in this part of the economy is heavily dependent upon public sector works. About 65 per cent to 70 per cent of public capital expenditure flows from government to industry, with the provision of schools, roads, sewerage works, land development and other capital works programs. In 1974-75 spending by public authorities in this area increased, in real terms, by about 6 per cent. The 1975-76 Budget provided an increase of about 7 per cent for the whole financial year. The increased rate of spending showed up strongly in the September and December quarters of 1975. This cushioned the sharp decline in non-residential construction by the private sector. The changed policies of the Fraser Government will reverse this trend, and it is likely that public spending will fall by about 2 per cent in the remainder of 1975-76. Already at least $60m has been cut from capital spending, of which -about $50m would have flowed through to the building industry. This trend will continue with the framing of the 1 976-77 Budget. There is no doubt that the Government will succumb to the Treasury line and the brunt of its spending cuts will be on capital works programs. It is always hard to reduce current spending. Expenditure on capital works can be deferred or chopped out of the Estimates with relative ease, as will be argued by Treasury. 
Clearly there is no source of relief for the sorely pressed building and construction industry in the next Budget. In total, we are looking at a building industry whose total output is falling and will continue to fall. Resources built up by the growth of the industry in the late 1960s and early 1970s are grossly under employed. This is reflected in the high rate of unemployment in the industry which employs about 8 per cent of the work force, with the jobs of about another 10 per cent dependent on it. In November last year unemployment in the whole of this industry was 5.3 per cent, which was much higher than the overall unemployment rate of 3.8 per cent. This unemployment rate could rise in the next 6 months to 7 per cent or 8 per cent of the building work force, with a higher concentration of unemployment in the non-residential sector. There is no sign that the Government has recognised the dimensions of the crisis. Its deliberate action to cut spending will aggravate the situation even further. As a matter of extreme urgency the Government should take 3 measures to reduce the impact of its policies on the building industry. It should ensure that sufficient funds are available for the rest of 1975-76 and through to 1976-77 to prevent any further drop in the output of the building industry. It should adopt a strategy in framing its first budget that would provide a level of expenditure on capital works sufficient to sustain the building industry. Finally it should take measures to cushion the building industry from the impact of a tight monetary policy. One way of doing this would be by making special loans to the savings banks. Unless the Government recognises the extent of the crisis and acts to stem the tide, the building industry faces years of chaos and continued decay. 
-The Opposition strongly questions the assumption which underlies the extension of the home savings grants scheme. We say that this scheme is regressive. It involves the transfer of resources from the poor to the rich. Furthermore it will have at best only a marginal impact on the home building industry, which is now facing a gloomy future. We say that it will not achieve the aim claimed for itincreasing the stock of owner-occupied homes in Australia. 
The Australian Labor Party is strongly committed to the principle of home ownership. Most Australians want to own their own homes. A family earning an average income can improve the income at its disposal by as much as one third during its lifetime by buying its own home. If a family cannot buy its own home, then capital gains, rentals and tax concessions derived from ownership go to the landlords. 
The housing industry is also a key part of the Australian economy, as I stressed in the debate on the matter of public importance yesterday. After World War II there was a 20-year boom in the housing industry and the stocks of homes owned by their occupiers steadily improved. It rose from 50 per cent to more than 72 per cent of householders. This was partly due to Government policy, particularly the housing policy of the Chifley Government. It was also due to the favourable market for housing finance. To give an example based on the South Australian figures, in 1966 a home seeker could buy an average home for $10,000, on a deposit of $2,100 and a weekly repayment of about $13.50. With an after tax average weekly earning of $52, the repayment amounted to just over 25 per cent of income. On this basis, a home seeker who could save the deposit could get home finance and could buy a home with little difficulty: This is in complete contrast to the situation that now exists. Twenty years of progress during which time home ownership rose from 50 per cent to 72 per cent of householders and during which time building costs declined in relevant terms have been followed by a slump in new home ownership. Those who own their own homes are now a declining percentage of families. Fewer young families can afford to buy new homes. 
Public housing has fallen sharply as a percentage of total new housing. Private investment in new housing for rental has fallen, and demand pressures have forced up rents. Slackness in the building industry has boosted unemployment figures. To extend the example I gave earlier, in 1975 an average home costing $31,700 required a deposit of about $6,350, with repayments of $55 a week. On an after tax average weekly earning of $123, repayments were 45 per cent of income. No lending institution would advance funds to a home seeker who had to devote such a high proportion of his income to repayments. The result is: No deal, no home built, no jobs, no stimulus to a sagging economy in which the building sector is a major force that can stimulate it. The money piles up in banks as people try to save more to hedge against the risk of unemployment. 
This brings me to the major flaw in the new scheme. It completely contradicts the Government's monetary policy. At a time when the Government is trying to spark consumer spending, there is no logic in putting up a scheme that will encourage greater savings. Savings are already at a record level. Yet the Government has not found a way to divert savings into workable home loans. Its policies have had the opposite effect. Through the new Australian security bonds it has diverted savings out of the building societies. This means that savings which would have gone into new home loans in the months ahead have been sterilised in a way which takes them out of the housing sector completely. The home building sector is already showing some signs of a downward turn after a lift in the last few months of the Whitlam Labor Government. This scheme will defer investment because decisions to buy homes will be put off until the full benefit of the savings grant can be realised. The end result must be that fewer homes will be built, and fewer building workers will be employed. 
Another defect of this scheme is that it is directed to bridging the deposit gap, but this is no longer the major problem in buying a home. Until about 1966 the main obstacle facing the home seeker was building up enough savings for a deposit. With a deposit, even an income earner getting average weekly earnings or less had an excellent chance of getting finance for a home. Of course that was in the past. The first home savings grant scheme was introduced in 1964 to assist in overcoming the deposit gap. The same philosophy underlies this extended scheme. Now the basic problem is not the deposit gap but the repayment gap. Banks and building societies usually do not lend when the rate of repayment exceeds 25 per cent to 30 per cent of earnings. The example which I gave earlier shows that a person on average weekly earnings could expect to devote about 45 per cent of take home pay to home repayments. Even to those who can get loans, the repayment burden is intolerably high. 
People blame high interest rates, but the problem is the whole rate of repayment required on a mortgage loan. With inflation, the lenders want too much back in the early years of the loan. They want a high return in the early years to beat the erosion of inflation. This means that more and more people are being excluded from buying a home, although they have the means to make repayments if the repayments could be spread evenly over the term of the loan. By raising interest rates lenders get more of their money back earlier in the life of the loan. These high early repayments fall harshly on the ordinary family. This creates a barrier which excludes more and more people from borrowing to buy a home or to construct a home. Entry to home ownership is quickly becoming restricted to three types of families- those who inherit money, the top 30 per cent of income earners and families with 2 incomes who are acceptable to the lending institutions. Other families are missing out altogether. This accounts for most Australian families. 
The home savings grant does nothing to arrest this trend. If anything, the new scheme will intensify the trend. The Labor Government was conscious of the problem and was devising a scheme through the Australian Housing Corporation to start a deferred mortgage repayment scheme. What did this Government do? It destroyed and scrapped the Corporation. Our scheme would have reduced the interest burden and the level of repayments in the crucial early years of home loans. The present Government has indicated an interest in a scheme of a similar sort. It is impossible to understand why the home savings grant scheme has been given priority over the deferred mortgage repayment scheme. The home savings grant scheme has been devised to attack the deposit gap which is no longer they key problem. Even if the scheme removes the deposit gap completely, which is still doubtful, the problem of an income gap and a repayment gap remains. This scheme does not even start to come to grips with the major problems which should be the focus of our housing policy. 
An even more basic flaw in the scheme is its lack of equity. It redistributes from the poor to the more fortunate in the community. These grants will be financed from revenue to which the poorer groups in the community contribute. These people will be denied assistance for housing because of their inability to save. It is a denial of justice to these poorer groups, younger people in particular, to hold out a reward for savings which they cannot make. They get no benefit, although they underwrite the cost of this scheme. Although these people can meet regular weekly repayments in most cases, they cannot make the regular savings required under the scheme. Quite plainly they are at a very serious disadvantage as a result of the scheme which imposes a weekly saving rate of about $40 if the full benefits are to be obtained. 
The scheme provides a blatant subsidy for those whose capacity to save is above the average. It does nothing to provide homes for those whose capacity to save is below the average. Schemes of this sort perpetuate class differences and injustices in another way. 
It has emerged clearly in recent years that the trend in home ownership is to larger houses. Since 1968 there has been a marked trend in private housing towards larger and more elaborate homes. This creates work for the home building industry, but it is clearly unjust. It means that the people who are well off are getting both the finance and the bricks and mortar that the poorer people cannot get. No one would claim that the ordinary income earners are demanding to have larger houses which they cannot afford. The Government is also winding down the tax deductibility for mortgage repayments that was introduced by the Labor Government. I was never a great admirer of this scheme, which is in many ways biased in favour of higher income earners. However, it has brought a measure of relief to those people in the lower and middle income group who have been burdened with heavy repayments in the early years of their loan terms. 
Unfortunately we do not yet have the figures to make an assessment of the value of the scheme and how it has helped wage earners at various income levels.  Senator Greenwood  has estimated the saving to revenue by the cutting of the mortgage repayment scheme at between $40m and $70m a year. The home savings grant scheme will not reach full operation until 1979-80, when it is estimated to cost $90m a year. In the meantime the changes to the tax concession scheme will more than finance the home savings grant scheme. This could be justified if the home savings grant scheme were a scheme which came to grips with the serious defects in the present housing programs, but quite plainly it is not a better scheme. It is an inferior scheme in every way. It would have been a much more constructive approach if the Government had given priority to expanding the operations of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, as it has promised. Linked to a deferred mortgage repayment scheme, this would have provided a start to a national housing policy, which is urgently needed if we are to prevent chaos in the next few years. 
Every year the goal of home ownership is receding for the hundreds of thousands of wage earners whose income is below the level of the average weekly earnings. I have publicly admitted that those people who have an income of between $95 and $135 a week are in a very difficult economic circumstance and were in a very difficult economic circumstance even under the Labor Government. That is why I advocated the implementation of a deferred mortgage repayment scheme. Even those who are in receipt of the average weekly earnings are hard pressed to get home finance. Demand pressures are forcing rental housing up at a time when the supply of new homes for renting is declining. The home savings grant scheme does not get to the heart of the housing problem. It is a costly gimmick which the Government has rushed into in defiance of its stated economic strategy. 
I preface my question to the Treasurer by saying that he would be aware that in the last year of the McMahon Government $167m was made available to the States under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement and that over the last 2 years of the Whitlam Government the average amount for welfare housing was $375m. Is the Treasurer aware that the conditions laid down by the Government for a couple to qualify for a home savings grant and the depleted mortgage interest reduction scheme require a married couple seeking a first home to defer purchase for 3 years and by doing so to suffer a major loss because of the increased capital cost of the home over the saving period? Is he aware that they are paying rent at an average of $45 a week, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The House is debating a Bill which makes provision for financial assistance to the States for roads. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  devoted a great deal of his speech to local government. I wish to analyse the record of the conservative forces when in government in this country between 1 950 and 1 970 with respect to their assistance to local government. An examination of the internal debt of the Australian Government between those years shows that the interest burdenthe servicing debt- rose by 55 per cent. In fact, the debt itself remains static but because of an increase in interest rates it increased by some 55 per cent. During the period 1950 to 1970 the States' debt increased 700 per cent. The local government debt increased by 2000 per cent and the semi-government authorities' debt increased 2800 per cent. 
I am a little wary when I hear ciriticisms from this Government which says that it has a new deal for local government. It put local government into bankruptcy. What did we do to try to assist local government? First of all, we introduced the Grants Commission. In its first year of the Commission's operation we made available $57m in direct grants to local government with no strings attached. The local government authorities could spend the money as they saw fit. Many of them spent it on roads. In the next financial year we increased grants to $79m, an increase of over 40 per cent. That is not a bad record for a government over a period of 3 years in office in its endeavours to assist local government, and that was not the only way we assisted local government. We assisted local government in thirteen of the 70 regions throughout Australia. We moved progressively and we dealt with regions in respect of need through the area improvement program which was formerly administered by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. We introduced schemes such as the Regional Employment Development scheme which poured tens of millions of dollars -in fact over $ 100m- into local government to try to relieve the poverty brought about by former conservative governments of this country between 1949 and 1973. The honourable member for Maranoa said that you cannot solve problems in 5 months. You cannot solve a quagmire of neglect of local government that was created under the Menzies, Holt, Gorton and McMahon governments. In the 3 years that we were trying to overcome the problems we made a great deal of progress. 
The Bill before the House relates to matters which were jointly administered by the former Minister for Transport and myself as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Urban arterial roads- the inner city freewayswere allowed to be built as monuments to the engineers of the State bureaucracy. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who is sitting at the table, knows that there was a great waste of expenditure on those urban arterial roads or what people call the inner city freeways. All over the world it has been proved that expenditure of this type was wasteful on economic, social and environmental aspects. In many cases the construction of these roads destroyed the inner city suburbs of our major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. The States did this with Commonwealth Government money because there was no direction from the Australian Government as to the manner in which the money would be spent, even though the Government was responsible for the expenditure of the money. 
I could deal with many other aspects. If ever there was a monument of mismanagement it is certainly the conservative governments that governed between 1949 and 1972. History will prove again- as the crisis that occurred in December 1972 can change governments- that in May 1974 the anti-government vote increased in Sydney and Melbourne because of the hysteria that was created by an economic slump which was affecting not only this country but all countries in the Western world. Electoral results, whether in New Zealand, Australia, France or West Germany, show a swing against the governments because the whole of the economic system of the western world is crumbling. 
I want to make some general comments about the Bill before making some specific criticisms of its provisions. The first point that needs to be made is that the Government seems to have shifted its ground on road grants since the Premiers Conference earlier this year. At this meeting the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  suggested that a total of $64m would go to local government to meet its road needs. This was to be done on the basis of $44m this financial year and $20m next financial year. It was suggested strongly in the second reading speech presented on behalf of the Minister for Transport that all of the $64m would be paid in 1975-76. 
The commitment made to local government at the Premiers Conference has been ignored. The second reading speech specifically states that the Government has accepted the request of the States. In turn the States have given assurances that they are able to provide properly for local government authorities. We have heard nothing from local government in this shift of direction. To my mind it is very doubtful whether this change would be acceptable to local government. It indicates a shift of resources from local government back to the States, which on past performance have not been ready to relieve the road problem of local government authorities. It makes a mockery of the Government 's expressed concern for local government and its pledge to give local government a new financial deal. 
The second reading speech states that the Bill is similar in some respects to the Bill introduced last November which lapsed because of the Constitutional  coup.  In many ways it is similar, particularly in the total amount of money to be allocated. This point should be stressed because the Government has tried to gloss it over. This emerges quite clearly from the transcript of the Premiers Conference, which shows quite clearly that the Prime Minister had to be pinned down to concede that this was not a new allocation. There have been some important changes in the distribution of Federal money, and these point up important differences in philosophy between the Fraser Government and the Labor Government. In most cases the variations between the Fraser Government's proposals and the Labor Government's proposals are minor, and I will not discuss them. 
There is one very important switch in the direction of funds, and I must draw attention to it. I refer particularly to Schedules 9 and 10 of the Bill. Schedule 9 shows that Victoria's allocation for rural arterial roads and developmental roads is $2. 66m. This is $2. 12m more than the amount suggested by the Labor Government. Turning to Schedule 10, we find that Victoria has increased its allocation to rural local roads to $6. 65m, which is $5.36m more than the Labor Government proposed. In total, the Labor Government would have given $ 1.83m for rural roads in Victoria, and this Government has multiplied that amount by 500 per cent to $9.3 lm. At the same time, the total going to urban arterial and urban local roads in Victoria has been slashed from $7.37m to $3. 9m. That indicates the priorities of this Government. They give to the few instead of to the many. Eighty-five per cent of Australian people live in urban communities, but always in the past, under Conservative Governments, the rural areas, the sectional group which the Minister represents, take the cake and give the crumbs to the city dwellers. Liberal members should be ashamed of themselves because they do not have the gumption to understand the priorities that are involved. 
The amount of $4.1m which the Labor Government allocated for national highways in New South Wales has been abolished. The $2. 56m allocated to Victoria has also gone, and of course the Hume Highway will get worse and worse because of that decision. In total, this represents a massive diversion of resources from urban to rural services. There is some evidence that the Minister for Transport has some doubt about switching the balance in this way. In his Press statement announcing the grants he suggested that dissatisfied urban councils should take up the matter with  Mr Hamer.  In short, he tried to wash his hands of the criticism from urban councils, which have been very badly treated by this allocation. The Labor Government last year was pressed strongly by urban councils for extra funds. We were as generous as we could be in the economic circumstances of the time. The proper balance between urban and rural needs has been completely destroyed by this unjustified switch in resources. At least it shows the priorities of the Fraser Government and of the Victorian Government. The States and the rural areas get the first and the biggest slice of the cake. Local government and urban councils are deprived of funds for essential services. If this is the new federalism, there is not much future for it. 
The poor treatment given to local government also shows up in the New South Wales program. The Labor Government proposed an allocation of $2.8m for urban local roads in New South Wales. This decision was made after many local government authorities drew attention to the problems of the undeclared class 6 and class 7 urban roads. It was pointed out to the Labor Government that there were at least 500 miles of main roads which Federal and State governments should classify as urban local roads, in addition to the usual roads in that category. That is why we proposed a generous grant for those sorts of roads in New South Wales. Our allocation of $2.8m has been cut back to $0.58m. In effective terms, it has been wiped out completely. The balance has been transferred to urban arterial roads. Yet the States have assured the Minister that they will look after the needs of local government. I question that the record of this Fraser Government is any different from that of the conservative governments which deserted local government between 1949 and 1972. The example I have given shows just how false is this Government's claim. The States are looking after the States, not local government. The Minister made much of the change in the Roads Grants Act, which he claimed gave greater power over the programs to the States and local government. In fact, the impact in the programs is not particularly significant. 
We will not oppose giving control of details of the urban local roads programs and rural local roads programs back to the States and local government authorities. At the same time, we would insist that uniform guidelines be applied to the allocation of these funds. In particular, we are anxious to see that more of this money is directed to urban roads in provincial centres. All too often, the big cities and major towns in our rural areas miss out under these programs. An unjust share of these funds is spent on rural local roads outside the major provincial centres such as Wagga, Wangaratta, Toowoomba and scores of others. As a former State Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife)  should be well aware that the urban local roads within the Wagga area share very badly under this Act. Road services in these growing provincial centres must be protected. There should be guidelines for rural local roads like the guidelines that the Department of Urban and Regional Development produced for urban local roads. 
The amendments to the Act also return to the States the right to approve the use of their own funds for urban arterial roads. I have already warned the Minister about the engineers in the New South Wales Department of Main Roads of whom the honourable member for Farrer was well aware. They wanted to build monuments or memorials to themselves. In fact, the roads they wanted to build are obsolete. They are economically unwise, environmentally unwise and socially unwise. This has become a less sensitive area because there are hopeful signs of change; but I say to the Minister that I have grave doubts, as there are still forces within the States which want to build those monuments- the inner city freeways- to these engineers. This is a subject that I have pressed for many years. I hope that there is a glimmer of a saner and more human approach to stop this stupid idea of creating inner city freeways which cost tens of millions and even hundreds of millions of dollars. It is far wiser to build a more efficient urban public transport system. 
Much damage has been done already; but there is a chance that we can avoid the ravages of the freeways in inner urban areas in the years ahead. However, we must be on guard at all times. The main offenders in constructing radial freeways have been the New South Wales and Victorian governments. These are the only States that have the ability to finance the construction of freeways out of their own resources. But I warn the Minister to watch the cities of Perth and Brisbane in particular. They are not without criticism. The other States have to rely on the Federal Government for funds for urban arterial roads. There is a danger that the greater freedom for the States to switch funds from one class of road to another could be used to build up funds for more radial freeways. This is an area which needs to be watched very closely, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria. However, I am not excluding the other States. 
Apart from these changes, it will be necessary for the Federal Government to obtain from the States programs for all sorts of roads. Despite the claim by the Minister, the requirements for submitting programs have not been changed in any way in respect of any major aspect. The Minister has a responsibility. He has put the States on trust in regard to inner urban freeways. I am asking him to keep a close watch on them because we do not want to see these monuments of despair created again. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Inter-departmental Committee on Urban and Regional Development, established by the Labor Government, been re-established by the Government or has a similar committee been created. 
If so, (a) which Department or Authority chairs the committee, (b) which Departments or Authorities are members of the committee, (c) what are its terms of reference and (d) when and how will it report to the Government. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it true that the Minister made a report to the Australian Journalists Association on 8 April about the deaths of the 5 Australian newsmen in East Timor and that no mention was made of  Mr Jose  Martins' contact with and details given to the Australian officials in Geneva in January and in Lisbon in March? Does the Minister agree that there is widespread concern in Australia about the deaths of these newsmen? Will he establish a judicial inquiry into these deaths? Will he bring  Mr Jose  Martins to Australia to testify before such an inquiry? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Interdepartmental Committee on Joint Transport Studies, established by the Labor Government, been re-established by the Government or has a similar committee been created. 
If so, (a) which Department or Authority chairs the Committee, (b) which Departments or Authorities are members of the committee, (c) what are its terms of reference and (d) when and how will it report to the Government. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Interdepartmental Committee on Location of Australian Government Employment, established by the Labor Government, been re-established by the Government or has a similar committee been created. 
If so, (a) which Department or Authority chairs the committee, (b) which Departments or Authorities are members of the committee, (c) what are its terms of reference and (d) when and how will it report to the Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and follows my question yesterday in which I asked whether the Minister would hold a judicial inquiry into the deaths of the five Australian newsmen who were killed- some people think they were murderedin East Timor. The Minister evaded the question. He will be aware that sections of the Australian community regard reports provided by his Department on the deaths of the five Australian newsmen in East Timor and the disappearance of  Mr Roger  East as incompetent and incomplete. In view of those feelings and in view of the willingness of Jose Martins to come to this country, I again ask the Minister: Will he establish a judicial inquiry into these matters? 
-The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  talked about jackboots. From time to time we see honourable members come into this chamber and talk with the same hysteria as the honourable member for St George did, but most of them, particularly those who were elected to seats such as the one to which he has been elected, do not last for very long. The Government creates hysteria by talking about violence. What more violent action by forces outside the elected government could there be than the refusal of Supply? And that was a decision made by the Federal Executive of the Liberal Party of Australia. Honourable members opposite were responsible for the first refusal of Supply in the history of this Parliament. How could anyone be more violent than that? How could anyone be more violent than were the forces outside this Parliament who brought about the sacking of the previous Prime Minister? What utter disgrace! 
Honourable members opposite are concerned about whether forces outside this Parliament should be taking action. Of course action should be taken by a parliamentary party, but that is not to say that the actions of a parliamentary party are the only way in which democracy can be defended. Some people say that when there is an election it is for a 3-year period and that something dies between elections. I believe that other forces must be involved if the democratic process is to function. It is my strong conviction that people should be more involved in the issues that control their lives. They cannot leave it to taking action at the ballot box only every 3 years. They must be on guard to meet the issues day by day. It may need to be only a letter to a newspaper or the making of a protest to a local politician, but, where it is warranted, mass action may be needed- a mass protest. For example, honourable members will be well aware that the Victorian farmers marched on Melbourne several years ago and that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  did not receive much of a reception when he addressed them. People have demonstrated against the war in Vietnam. Trade unionists have demonstrated about economic injustices. Ratepayers have demonstrated against councils re-zoning their living areas from low ratio residential development to high rise areas. There have even been protest marches aimed at the protection of part of our national heritage. 
The issue involved determines the magnitude of the action taken by the people. That is my position. I have always tried not to be a demagogue. During a lifetime in politics I have tried to be a collective man. I examine and re-examine my position, drawing on my experience, trying to make myself a better man to serve the people and trying to make our society a more just, a more equal and a more humane society. That is what we have to try to do. The conservative forces want to be able to manipulate power and privilege, but power and privilege do not lie in this Parliament. Power and privilege lie in the monopoly control of this country. In the 1972-73 financial year less than 2 per cent of the companies controlled at least SO per cent of all business and most of that 2 per cent were multinational companies. The real power in this country is controlled by the multinational companies, the wealthy companies and the major bureaucracies. This Government will find that it will have very little say when it needs control over a major section of the economy. It is important that there is participation by the people. People must become more and more involved in their society. They certainly should not rely solely on the ballot box every 3 years if they want to have a proper, democratic society. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What percentage of the workforce is directly employed in the building and construction industry when that industry is fully utilised. 
What percentage of the workforce is employed in industries which rely in the main on the building and construction industry for their existence. 
What is the level of unemployment within the workforce of (a) the building and construction industry and (b) those industries referred to in part (2). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the 
Indonesian Government account of the deaths of the 5 Australian newsmen in Timor said that the newsmen were killed when sheltering in a house which was struck by mortar fire and burned out and that the bodies were burnt so badly that identification was difficult? I ask the Minister what action his Department took when the newsmen 's personal effects were handed over by Indonesian authorities intact, not burnt, and with no sign of fire damage. In view of the widespread concern over the inadequate and incompetent action of his department on this and other matters relating to the invasion of East Timor, I again ask: Will the Minister institute a judicial inquiry into all aspects of the case? 

 -Mr Speaker, before this House is a matter of public importance, that the Australian Government should use . all avenues available to it to bring about a genuine act of self-determination for the people of East Timor. I stress the words: 'should use all avenues available to it'. It is time Australia, and this Government in particular, got moving in all the possible ways open to it, and stood for the rights of the people of East Timor to determine their own future. 
I do not want to turn this urgent and tragic situation into a party political wrangle in this House. I want to make sure that Australia as a nation takes the honourable and proper stand, and that this stand is based on all possible information available to us. There seem to have been doubts in the minds of some people that the East Timorese should have any right to selfdetermination. It would seem that in some high corridors of power in the Foreign Affairs Department it has decided for these two-thirds of a million people that they should be incorporated into the vast nation of Indonesia, a nation of more than 3000 islands and 130 million people. It would seem that this decision cuts right across the principles that Australia has stood for since we have been speaking in world forums. Most importantly, it cuts across what now is becoming increasingly clear- the aspirations and the welfare of the East Timorese. 
There has been some effort to create the impression that the East Timorese are just a small group, much the same as the vast majority of Indonesians. This is not the case. The East Timorese have a unique ethnic identity. Their culture and their language are different from the people around them, and certainly very different from the military men who come from Jakarta to defeat and rule them. They have had 400 years of Portuguese colonial rule. From this, there have been some beneficial and some harmful effects, but one major effect is that the East Timorese have been drawn into the Christian faith. Indeed, many of the maligned Fretilin leaders are active members of the Catholic Church. Indonesia is a Moslem country, and the relationship between Jakarta leadership and the Christian communities in Indonesia has not been a happy one. 
There is another reason why Australia should especially recognise the identity and the plight of the East Timorese. That is the moral debt that we owe these people for their assistance to Australian troops in the Second World War. I served in Timor and was taken prisoner there on the western end of the island. On that end, there were cases of the local people turning over Australian soldiers to the Japanese. But this was not the case in East Timor. The East Timorese protected our troops. Many suffered and died because of the loyalty and assistance they gave to the Australians. I ask the House to think about this: During the Japanese occupation of East Timor in the Second World War, 50 000 East Timorese were killed. This number is twice the number of Australians killed in all theatres in the Second World War. The Mombai people of the mountains of East Timor were extremely loyal to the Australians during the war. These very same people are strong supporters of the Fretilin and other independence fighters who have moved into the mountains to escape the Indonesian invaders. I do not think there would be many Australian returned servicemen who would like to explain to the Mombai people the Australian performance on East Timor. Australia is now in a position in which it is engaged in a shoddy regional political exercise at the expense of its principles. Australia is in the process of betraying a country and a people to whom it owes a considerable debt. And why? Because of some phony excuse of the worst type of expedient diplomacy. 
The Australian people will have to bear part of the responsibility for the recent and imminent tragedy in East Timor, because a silent group of Foreign Affairs officials has skillfully sought to protect their own pet project of a certain kind of relationship with the Suharto Government of Indonesia. I cannot accept the proposition that Australia's relationship with the Indonesian people will be destroyed if we make a moral stand on the rights of the East Timorese people for independence. After all, the basis of our bond to all Indonesians is our support for them during their own independence struggle. The only basis for long term relationships in the region is one of honour and integrity, not devious compliance with a situation that has already produced suffering of horrifying proportion and that is likely to lead to further wholesale violence over a protracted period of struggle by the East Timor independence forces. 
We cannot turn our backs on the violence at our doorstep. The Timorese demonstrated in the Second World War that they will not give up the struggle easily. The Australian people have had some difficulty in obtaining an understanding of the issues involved in the East Timor situation and in obtaining the facts about the tragic events that have occurred there, particularly since September of last year. As information starts trickling through, and questions are raised, the people of this country are beginning to wonder what really has been going on there. What can be so important about Australia's relations with the Jakarta generals that we can ignore the gross violation of human rights on our very doorstep? 
Who has been distorting and withholding information? How can it be that 6 Australian journalists can be killed, in questionable circumstances, without Australian authorities insisting on the full facts surrounding their deaths? I ask the House to ponder the reaction of this nation, or any nation, if five of its journalists had been destroyed beyond recognition in the war in Vietnam. Can it be that the deaths of these 5 young men, and the circumstances of their deaths, do not really matter if it makes for diplomatic embarrassment in the circles which our bureaucrats in the Foreign Affairs Department are trying to cultivate? 
Let us cover a couple of areas where misleading impressions have been created. Firstly, there is the Fretilin Party, and other political parties in Timor. Certain quarters have raised bogus fears that Fretilin is communist or communist inspired. The present  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  has fuelled these fears. The truth is that Fretilin is a strongly nationalistic Party, its main attribute being that it has wide popular support amongst the vast majority of villagers and common people. Most of the articulate left wing elements of the Party, mainly students returned from studies in western Europe, were killed in the UDT coup around August 1975. Fretilin, like most other political parties in East Timor except Apodeti and one other small party, has a basic policy of independence for East Timor and is opposed to integration with Indonesia. 
Secondly, certain authorities have worked hard to create the impression that all that is happening in East Timor is an indigenous civil war. In fact, a large scale invasion by Indonesian troops, with sea and air support, has taken place. One side of this civil war is an estimated 35 000 Indonesian soldiers and a small band of indigenous officials forming the Provisional Government of East Timor, controlling the major towns and the coastal areas. The other side of the civil war is the civilians of East Timor, or at least 300 000 odd who inhabit the hinterland, or who have fled there to avoid the Indonesian invaders. Fretilin, with many members of UDT and other parties provide the leadership for this side of the so-called civil war. 
There is sufficient evidence now to make clear that, in the last 2 months of the Labor GovernmentSeptember to November 1975- and the period of the Fraser caretaker Government Indonesian troops participated in, and led, invasions into East Timor, from the border with Indonesian Timor. On or about 16 October 1975, in the attack on Balibo, 5 Australian journalists died. We Australians have been the victims of ignorance, propaganda and deceit. I personally feel cheated that something approaching the facts of the events as they were occurring in East Timor were unknown to me and to my Party. On 30 January 1976 the Australian Labor Party determined its position at the Federal Executive. This position was in line with the general principles of the Labor Party on the rights of people for self-determination and condemned the role of Indonesia. The Caucus of the Parliamentary Labor Party passed a resolution on 31 March 1976 along similar lines. I seek the permission of the House to incorporate these 2 decisions in  Hansard. 
-I thank the House. Thirdly, there is the tragic situation of the massive death toll in the East Timor conflict. Counteracted by a sense of disbelief, reports have continued about the ^discriminate killings by Indonesian troops. Estimates, including that given by Lopez da Cms, a member of the Indonesian backed Provisional Government, are now placed at approximately 60 000 people. I imagine this is 10 per cent of the East Timorese population. This is death in atrocious proportions. 
I want to mention 6 other deaths- the deaths of the 5 journalists killed at Balibo and Roger East. The remains of the 5 young men were handed over in one small packet, and were buried in a single grave in Jakarta. Over that grave is a headstone saying 'No words can explain this pointless death at Balibo.' I suggest,  Mr Speaker,  that there are no words to express the tragedy of the deaths of these young men, but there are words to explain how it happened. There has, indeed, been a very disturbing explanation, that three of them were executed in cold blood by Indonesian troops. Their presence in what we now know to have been a very dangerous war zone can be explained by the possibility that they, like most of the Australian people, did not and could not know that such a ferocious war was taking place. They could not know, because information was withheld, and a propaganda exercise carried out to prevent public knowledge of the real situation in East Timor. They were executed- I stress those words- because they had concrete evidence of an invasion that the Indonesian authorities had sought to hide from the world. They were executed because they had the truth. 
I am terribly afraid that what will happen is that, based on false information, a false impression deviously created by a handful of Indonesian and Australian authorities, an entire country that is one of our closest neighbours, will be destroyed. This destruction would include not just destruction of a culture but the physical liquidation of a large portion of the population. I am terribly afraid for Australia's integrity in the world community, and for the guilt that our authorities will bear throughout history for allowing such a situation to unfold. How callous and ungrateful will this country look to our children, and to the people of neighbouring countries, when they look at Australian history 1942 to 1976. On the one hand they see the generosity and humanity of the people of East Timor; on the other, they see callous abandonment by Australia in 1976. How hypocritical Australia will look in world forums for years to come, when we speak, as we have done in the past, of basic human rights and freedom for peoples of the world to determine their own future. It is indeed a matter of extreme urgency that Australia act, with honour, now on East Timor. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What committees of Cabinet have been established, what is the composition of each committee, and which Minister chairs each committee. 
Which Cabinet committees are required to have their decisions ratified by Cabinet. 
Have any committees of officials been established to serve any of the various committees of Cabinet. 
If so, what committees of officials have been formed, what is their individual composition by Department and which Department or Authority chairs each committee. 
-The Opposition has raised this matter of public importance to expose the certain destruction by the Fraser Government of the growth centre program. It is of such serious concern and is such an important debate that only one member of the National Country Party is in the chamber. I want to begin by looking quickly at the known facts, before fitting them into certain consequences for growth centres. Last Budget, the Budget for 1975-76, the Labor Government allocated a total of $65.9m for growth centres. This was made up of about $40m for Albury-Wodonga, $8.5m for BathurstOrange, $ 1 6.6m for Sydney-south-western sector and $0.5m for Monarto. When the Fraser Government took over it did not tamper with these levels of spending. In any case, there was little that it could do. The money had been committed to the States and could not be withdrawn. 
It is not what happened in 1975 that is the issue but the massive disembowelling of the growth centre projects that is now engaging the Government. Shamefully, this carving up of the growth centre program has been done by stealth. The line that is coming from the Government's official spokesmen is completely different from that which is coming from its hatchet men in the Treasury who are actually doing the job. Last Friday the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Senator Greenwood,  who is the Minister responsible for growth centres, made a sensible speech in Adelaide on the future of growth centres. There is little with which to quarrel in the theory of  Senator Greenwood's  speech. He pointed to the likely population movements in Australia over the next 25 years. In particular he pointed to the heavy rate of household formation in the next 15 to 20 years. In the main, I agree with the population projections which he expressed and with the implications for internal population movements which he drew from them. He went on to stress the importance of a selective growth centre approach while not excluding the need to provide other forms of related regional assistance. Again I found little with which to quarrel in the philosophy expressed by  Senator Greenwood.  It is similar in many ways to the philosophy built up by the Labor Government and absorbed by the old Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
But  Senator Greenwood  had nothing to say on the crucial point, which is: How is the growth centre program to be funded? The whole tone of his speech and the philosophy which he expressed are based on keeping up the flow of funds to growth centres. Yet nowhere did he come clean and make a firm commitment of future funds for the existing growth centres and for the new ones that will be needed over the next few years. In this respect the speech is grossly misleading, because it implies a firm level of future funding. Yet, as  Senator Greenwood  well knows, his Cabinet is about to abolish growth centre spending, at least for 1976-77. 
Last Friday I made a statement in which I said that the Treasury had decided not to include the funds for growth centres in the Supply Bills which are to come before this Parliament before it rises at the end of the month. On Monday the  Australian Financial Review  reported that there would be no funds for growth centres in the Supply Bills, apart from $4m for Albury-Wodonga. I have no reason to disbelieve the story. It may have been based on later information than that which was available to me. In any case, the essential point remains, which is: Whether a token allocation is made to Albury-Wodonga or not, the Government is bent on destroying the growth centre program. 
Let us make some calculations on the information which I have put to the House. Assume that the figure of $4m for Albury-Wodonga is correct. If $4m is allocated in the Supply Bills, this implies a total spending for the whole of the financial year 1976-77 at around $9.6m. Comparing this figure with the 1975-76 figure, the allocation for Albury-Wodonga will be chopped by around 75 per cent, from just over $40m to just under $10m. With only Albury-Wodonga funded, the entire allocation for growth centres will plunge from $65.67m in 1975-76 to $9.6m in 1976-77. It may be said that it is unfair to argue on the Supply period alone and that the Government might resume funding when the Budget for 1976-77 is put to the Parliament. I cannot accept this proposal. If the funds are not there for the first 5 months of the year it is logical to expect that they will not be there for the balance of the year. In any case, the damage would have been done. 
Growth centre programs have been carefully developed in 5-year rolling programs. These programs are not designed to leap-frog over a year in which the funds are chopped off. Once the money stops, the programs stop. They are disrupted in many ways, and it may take years to overcome the disruption even if the Federal cash flow is resumed. The whole process of allocation of resources is thrown completely out of gear. Private investment decisions are deferred and in many cases abandoned. The provision of the infrastructure through public works programs is run down and eventually stops. Job opportunities disappear, and there are grave risks of a severe recession. This is the picture which Treasury strategy is painting for the key parts of Australia 's developing economy. 
I want to look now at the order of spending that is required to keep a viable growth centre program going. As a guide, I refer to the last figures that were available to me as the responsible Minister. No doubt the Government has more accurate figures, but at least these figures give an indication of what is required. The forward projections for Albury-Wodonga require a spending of $68m in 1976-77. As I indicated earlier, the best that this growth centre can expect is $9.6m. The amount required would taper in future years as a substantial part of the land acquisition and capital works program in Albury-Wodonga is completed. According to my estimates, Albury-Wodonga would need $58.5m in 1977-78 and $28.9m in 1978-79. 1 stress that these figures are calculated on June 1975 prices. The other growth centres also require a consistent level of support. For instance, BathurstOrange would require $ 13.7m in 1976-77, $ 13.1m in 1977-78 and $1 1.3m in 1978-79. The honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  and the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard),  whose electorates have been betrayed by the Government, can no longer remain silent. 
For the Sydney South Western sector the projected order of spending would rise to a peak of $48.3m in 1977-78 and then taper off to $39m in the following year. The electorate of honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  has been sold out. Neither of these key programs is to be funded in 1976-77, nor is the Monarto growth centre in South Australia. Again it seems that the Government has completely scrapped the new growth centres which the Labor Government was developing. If we had stayed in government there would have been certain funding for other growth centres in the 1976-77 Budget. I refer to Geelong, Gosford-Wyong and Townsville. I know that  Mr Hamer  has been working on the Government to make a commitment to Geelong. On all the evidence he has failed.  His  failure to stand up to the big land developers in the Geelong region disturbed me greatly when I was the Minister.  His  own unwillingness to confront the conservative elements of his Cabinet delayed funds for Geelong which the Labor Government committed: It might interest the Premier to know that our forward projection for Geelong involved a level of spending of about $26m for the next 3 years. 
Both the' Gosford-Wyong and the Townsville growth centres are geared to where population increase is now occurring in Australia. Outside the capital cities the main sources of population increase are the New South Wales coast north of Sydney and the Queensland coast. There are other areas of strong increase such as the Pilbara in Western Australia and the Bowen Basin in Queensland which are best looked at in the context of a development policy. But Townsville and Gosford-Wyong are tailor-made for the growth centre approach. Unfortunately both State Governments have dragged the chain. The Premier of Queensland particularly cost his State tens of millions of dollars by refusing to cooperate with the Whitlam Labor Government. Now that the Government has changed he is desperately trying to recoup his losses by getting this Government to support a growth centre at Townsville but I am afraid that it is too late. If it is any consolation to the Queensland Premier, the forward planning of the Whitlam Labor Government was looking to a total of around $ 1 3m for Townsville over the next 3 years. 
Apart from Townsville and Gosford-Wyong, there may already be a case for looking at other potential growth centres on this coastal axis. We have made money available for the Fitzroy Basin region of Queensland to upgrade the services of Gladstone. There may be a case for a growth centre in the Fitzroy Basin, perhaps at Gladstone, and there may be a case for another one on the north coast of New South Wales. Much will depend on the trends of population growth and internal migration over the next few years. Let me conclude by looking at the order of spending at which the last Government was looking. It would have risen rapidly in 1976-77 to a peak of $ 194m in the following year. Without new commitments it would have fallen to around $ 160m in 1978-79. 1 stress that these are only estimates. Quite clearly, we could not have made a definite commitment so far ahead without knowledge of the immediate budgetary situation. It shows the lines on which the Labor Government was working to develop a growth centre program which would cut the pressures on existing cities and provide attractive alternatives. 
We are facing a heavy rate of household formation in the next few years, particularly in the next 10 to 15 years. There is no doubt that these young families will be looking for better and different lifestyles. The growth centre program was devised to provide these opportunities at the same time as giving a breathing -space which would allow the replanning of our major cities which have gone badly astray. It can be done at a cost which the nation can bear. It is ridiculous to castigate as too costly a growth centre program whose peak annual cost is below the capital cost of one of the new cruisers which the Government is buying from the United States of America. There is no alternative to the selective growth centre program. The scattered decentralisation program which has been suggested by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  which spreads assistance thinly over a wide range of centres does not work, nor does the commitment to the overcentralisation of Sydney and Melbourne which occurred under previous Liberal-National Country Party governments. State governments have tried to meet these problems for years. The private sector cannot do the job without the support of government. This will be proved very quickly if support for Albury-Wodonga is withdrawn. It can be done with all levels of governmentFederal, State and local government- working closely with the private sector and the local communities. This is the essence of the growth centre concept. It would be tragic for Australia if the growth centre process which has been carefully built up over the past few years were to be destroyed by lack of commitment by this Government. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. He would be aware that  Mr Jose  Martins, the  President  of the Kota Party of East Timor, is now in Australia, having been brought here by the Victorian branch of the Australian Journalists Association. I ask the Prime Minister whether his Government will extend  Mr Martins'  visa and arrange for the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to interview  Mr Martins  concerning the death of the 5 newsmen at Balibo in East Timor. 

 -Mr Speaker, on behalf of the Opposition, I join with the Leader of the House in extending my best wishes to  Mr Riddle  on his retirement. 

 -Mr Speaker, I want to press a matter which I raised with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at question time this morning. This is the visit to Australia of  Mr Jose  Martins, the former  President  of the Kota Party of East Timor. As honourable gentlemen know,  Mr Martins  came to Australia earlier this week at the invitation of the Australian Journalists Association. It should be stressed that the AJA also paid  Mr Manins's  expenses. I do not want to go into detail on facts which should be well known to everyone in this House. 
Briefly,  Mr Martins  has thrown new light on the deaths of 5 Australian television journalists at Balibo, East Timor, late last year. In particular, he has challenged the official version of how these young men met their deaths. The conventional view which has been pushed hard by the Department of Foreign Affairs is that these 5 men met their deaths by misadventure. According to this version, they were accidentally killed when they were caught in a crossfire during the capture of Balibo by Indonesian troops.  Mr Martins  has stated in the strongest possible terms that this is not true. He has said that the journalists were gunned down quite deliberately and quite callously by Indonesian troops. 
According to  Mr Martins,  they died in cold blood as the result of a premeditated order by the Indonesian commanders. These officers knew that Australian newsmen were in Balibo and they ordered their men to kill them. There can be no doubt about this;  Mr Martins  has stated it in the bluntest possible terms. He has stuck to his story under persistent questioning. Furthermore, he has brought to this country a grisly testimony in the form of bone fragments.  Mr Martins  claims that he collected these bones after the bodies of the newsmen were burnt. 
It is not my role to cross-examine  Mr Martins  or to try and establish conclusively the value of the evidence he has put forward. There is no doubt in my mind that  Mr Martins  is a man of great courage. It is true that he has switched sides from strong support for Indonesia to extreme hostility. At the same time he has taken grave risks in pushing the question of the Australian newsmen in the way that he has. He has come to 
Australia and he has brought evidence with him, and for these reasons he must be taken seriously and heard. 
The Australian Journalists Association is trying to get at the truth of the deaths of five of its members. Why shouldn't this Parliament? In my view, it should be put to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs. In particular,  Mr Martins  must stay in Australia and be given the chance to put his allegations to this Parliament through the Joint Committee. For this reason, I urge the Government to extend  Mr Martins  's visa and arrange for him to appear before the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Tuesday, 1 1 May. At question time this morning I urged this course on the Prime Minister.  Mr Fraser  made it clear that he thought it should be left to the AJA and the Department of Foreign Affairs to interview  Mr Martins. 
In my view, this approach is completely unsatisfactory. I do not challenge the integrity of the AJA: to my mind it has gone to extraordinary lengths to hunt out the truth on this matter and to safeguard the interests of its members and their families. I made clear in the House on Tuesday that I do challenge very strongly the integrity of the Department of Foreign Affairs on this matter. As I said on Tuesday, there is no doubt in my mind that people in high places in the Foreign Affairs Department conspired to mislead the Australian Government and the Australian people on this issue. This is not a blanket condemnation of the Department of Foreign Affairs; I acknowledge the integrity of most of these officers. On all the evidence, there is an element of officers who have disregarded the rules of impartial advice. They have taken sides with the Indonesian Generals. 

 Mr Martins has said repeatedly that on two occasions he gave information on the deaths of the 5 newsmen to Foreign Affairs Department officers. The first time was in Geneva and the second in Lisbon. If this is correct, there is reason to believe that this information was transmitted back to the Australian Government either incompletely or in a distorted form.  Mr Martins  has also claimed that this information was conveyed to the Indonesian Government by the Foreign Affairs Department. Again it is not my job to test these claims; it must be plain, however, that what  Mr Martins  has said raised grave suspicions about the Department's involvement in the tragic aftermath of the Balibo invasion. 
For this reason our Foreign Affairs Committee should interview  Mr Martins.  It should not be left to the Foreign Affairs Department. WeI do not want Caesar judging Caesar. In my view, the proper course is for  Mr Martins  to be invited to appear before the Joint Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs of this Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. He will be aware that the union movement supply ship containing humanitarian aid for the people of East Timor is expected to leave Australia shortly. He will be aware also that the 
Catholic bishops also wish to charter a vessel to send aid to East Timor. I ask: Will the Australian Government guarantee protection to those ventures in the light of the provocative statements by the Indonesian Government and the so-called Provisional Government of East Timor? 
It is sad that smokescreens have been used by the people opposite who supported one of the most violent actions ever perpetrated against the Australian people. I refer to the stopping of Supply to the Australian Government. It was these same men who supported the violent action taken by the Governor-General- the sacking of a Prime Minister and an Australian Government that had a majority in the people's house. It was these people opposite, these law and order men, who involved our young men in the bottomless pit of human suffering of Vietnam. It was these same law and order men who sent our young men overseas into that war of violence. An honourable member opposite shakes his head, but nowhere in the whole of Australia has a member of the Liberal Party or a member of the National Country Party ever dissociated himself from the violent action of Vietnam, with the exception of one person, namely,  Senator Hannaford.  This  applies to members of any upper or lower House in any State parliament or in any previous parliament. We should talk about the violence of these men when they talk about law and order issues and try to raise smokescreens. They do not deal with the facts of the address I delivered to the students. 
I dealt with where the real power of this nation lies. I set out in a letter to the  Australian  newspaper where the real power lies. So that we may clarify what I actually did say, I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of the brief talk I gave on 22 April to the University of Western Australia and a copy of a letter which I wrote to the  Australian  on 30 April 1 976. 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition 
TALK BY TOM UREN WITH STUDENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WEST AUSTRALIA-22 APRIL, 1976 
I don't want to say very much but what I have to say concerns the Labor Party and the Labor Movement throughout the whole of Australia- not just the W.A. Branch of the Parry. 
I think it's better that we leave as much time as possible for your questions. I'll try to answer them as honestly and fully as I can. 
I assume that most of you have an interest in the Labor Party and that you are fairly well up on the events of the last six months. 
I just want to make a few comments that are forward looking. 
Let me say, at the outset, that I am very optimistic about the longer term future. Iam optimistic because I have faith in the ability of the people who back the Labor Party to make it a better Party, to bring it into shape to meet the challenge that this country faces, now and in the future. 
The people who are the Party and will determine its future are young people like yourselves. I 've been very impressed in the last six months, with the level of political awareness of many of the young people. Many times during the election campaign I'd hear comments from young people that showed much greater maturity and understanding of what's really going on, than I heard from some of my colleagues in the ALP. 
The people who are the Party, are the workers of the Labor movements. This is the Party's real base- a fact that should be acknowledged by all people who look to the Labor Party for representation. The Labor movement is not only the Party's real base, it is the whole Australian economy's real base. 
The Party also receives allegiance from all the progressive movements- from ethnic groups, the women's movement, the environmentalists, the artists and what can broadly be called the peace movement. 
Sometimes this allegiance is qualified. Sometimes the ALP doesn't live up to the hopes of the progressive people. But, when it comes to the either/or choice, people have under the Westminster Parliamentary system, these people can at least feel some hope with the Labor Party. 
As I said before, I am optimistic because all these people who are good people, are in some way or another with the Labor Party and are coming forward. They can, and I believe they will, remake the Labor Party. 
You may well ask, how will this all happen? And I cannot really give you an answer. 
I am well aware that the established Labor Party machinery at times does not seem very inclined to take advantage of the engergies of all these people, or to question itselfand change. But I am also aware that the Party is not so much an organisation, but a collection of people. 
I am hopeful that the young, the workers and the progressive people will have enough energy to go into the Party and. uninvited by any of those who have a vested interest in maintaining the status-quo, to remake it. I believe the people can remake the ALP to be the Party of the people. 
There are just a few other related comments I 'd like to make. 
If you young, the workers, and the progressive people are to come together and remake the Party, it is necessary that each group and each individual is sympathetic to the position and the concerns of the others. A special maturity is required of the young, to understand and accept the views and attitudes of the older people. A special maturity is required of progressive people, to realise that some of their colleagues who are workers or just of an older generation may not have had the opportunity to broaden their horizons far enough to really understand by say certain environmental concerns, or the liberation of women. 
In a way, it is an advantage for the Labor Party to be out of office at this time. When we were in office, our function was to preside over the established system and to maintain it. Yet that establishment system, and the vested interests that really control it, are in most cases opposed to the interests of the workers and of human (and humane) progress. 
This is even more so, in times of economic difficulties such as are faced by the whole industrialised/capitalist world. 
Now that we are out of office, we are free to give serious consideration to how we can really represent the long term interests of the people who look to us. 
Finally, I don't want to leave you with the impression that I think all this is going to be easy. I don't and it's not. It means hard work. It means a lot of confusion and groping in the dark. 
It requires of everyone who is going to take part, a lot of self-questioning, a lot of learning, and in many cases, a sort of internal revolution. 
It means facing up to fairly fierce opposition, that will make the end of last year look like a storm in a tea-cup. But I think that the hope of seeing a more just, more humane society, and a more meaningful life for all people in the society, will make the effort worthwhile. 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition 30 April 1976 
Editor, 
The Australian' Dear  Sir, 
Your Editorial of 24 April,'Uren's Weapons' was personal, misleading and intimidatory. 
As much as I am tempted to be otherwise, I will try to be objective in reply. What was the situation? 
I spoke to the Labor Club of the University of Western Australia. No accredited journalist was present. I spoke for over one hour with answers and questions with only a 5 minute introductory comment. 
On what was your editorial based? It was based on a garbled report. In one question, I was asked, 'Arising out of the November crisis and the sacking of the Whitlam Government, has the Parliamentary system failed, if so, what alternatives are available?' 
I said, 'The real power lies outside the Parliament'. I gave details of the power structure, for example, in the income year of 1972-73, the Taxation Commissioners Report revealed that 200 000 companies made a taxation return, but less than 400 companies- less than 2 per cent of all companies shared nearly 50 per cent profit of all companies and of those 2 per cent of companies most are multi-nationals. 
The real power in this country lies in the multi-national corporations, the media and the Federal bureaucracy. The citadel of the Federal bureacracy was the Federal Treasury. They are the powerful sections of the system. Federal Treasury follows its own policies regardless of government. 
I said Parliament was an important weapon but it was only one weapon that could be used in the democratic process. Forces outside Parliament had to be active if democracy was to function. 
People must be involved, I contended, if we were to make an impact on the system. For example during the last Federal Election; if we were to fight elections on the sacking of the Labor Government, if we were to keep the people's attention to the real issue, we should have had at least one or two national stoppages. They should have been co-ordinated demonstrations similar to the demonstration against the war in Vietnam. 
I made the point that for at least the two Fridays before the 13th December, trade unionists and progressive people should have marched on the centre of capital cities, sat down and discussed rationally how a democratic government could have been sacked in the manner it was. 
I explained that I did not think it would have changed the result of the elections, as no government in the western world at this period of history could survive when the Opposition is able to choose the time for an election. 
I gave as an example the failure of the Gaullists in France, the success of the socialists and communists in local government elections in that country, and the failure of the social democrats in State elections in Western Germany, and the fear of the communists being elected to Government in Italy. 
I said capitalism in the western world was in a crisis situation. 
May I say quite clearly that I will not be intimidated by the publishers of 'the Australian'. I was a demonstrator, a participator at the grass roots level, before I was a Minister for Urban and Regional Development, before I was Deputy Leader of the Parliamentary Party. I went to gaol for my convictions against the brutality and stupidity of the police in their illegal action against me when I was protesting against Australia's involvement in Vietnam. I fought power and privilege for  61/2  years in the courts of this country, the State Supreme Court of New South Wales, the High Court of Australia, and the Privy Council in London. Even then I received justice from the people not from the judiciary. 
It is my strong conviction that people must be involved in the issues that control their lives; they cannot leave it only to the ballot box every three years, they must be on guard and meet the issues day by day- it may only need to be a letter to the newspaper or a protest to your local politician but where it warrants it, it may need mass action, a mass protestwhether that action be the Victorian farmers marching on Melbourne, or people demonstrating against the war in Vietnam, or trade unionists demonstrating for economic justice, or ratepayers demonstrating against their Council's rezoning of their living area from a low ratio residential development to high rise, or it might just be a protest march to protect a pan of our national heritage. The issue will determine the magnitude of the action taken by the people. 
That is my position, I am not a demogogue- during my lifetime in politics I have tried to work collectively with people and I am continually examining my position- drawing on my experiences to make myself better able to serve the people and assist to create a more just, a more equal and more humane society. 
Yours sincerely, TOM UREN 
-I thank the House. I dealt with the matter in some detail. I asked the students: Where does real power lie in this nation? I said that it does not really lie in the Australian Parliament; it really lies in the powerful companies, the monopoly sections, the media and the federal bureaucracy. I explained to the students that of the 210 000 companies that lodged a taxation return in 1972-73 fewer than 400 of them, less than 0.2 per cent, actually earned nearly 50 per cent of all company profit. In the 1972-73 income year company profit was $4,000m. Fewer than 400 companies shared approximately $2,000m. Most of those companies are multinationals. They are one of the great dominating powers of Australia. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is trying to put up a smokescreen. The so-called economic package that is to be introduced into this Parliament will really be an attack on the wage-earning capacity of workers; that is where the attack will be. The Government will attack on 2 issues. It will minimise Government expenditure, the money that governments can spend indirectly to assist people by raising their health standards and improving their hospital and education facilities, assisting with urban problems and social problems. These will be affected by the attacks. Money will be diverted to the very powerful sector. That is what will be involved. I explained this to the students. I said that Parliament was a very important section of democracy, but if we are to make democracy function we have to be alert at all times. 
The letter I have incorporated in  Hansard  sets out in detail clearly what I said. I said that part of the democratic process might need to be only a letter to the editor, a protest to one's politician, a demonstration or protest to one's local council on the re-zoning by that council of an area from low density to high density. It could take the form of a demonstration by farmers, as they demonstrated in the centre of Melbourne in March 1970. The demonstration in Melbourne on 23 March 1970 was addressed by the now Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who was then the Minister for Defence. Tens of thousands of farmers marched on that city. They had the right to demonstrate at that time because they were concerned about economic issues. 
Honourable members opposite talk about demonstrations. Let us look at what the honourable member for Denison had to say in a question he asked on 29 April 1976. He said to the Minister representing the Minister for Education: 
He would be aware that today is £ day and that several thousand teachers and parents from many parts of Australia have travelled to Canberra to put the case of education to this Parliament. 
Of course there were thousands of teachers outside Parliament House demonstrating in accordance with their rights. It is hypocrisy that this matter of public importance should have been raised. 
-Well, I say that the honourable member has the audacity - 
I withdraw. With respect, I would not have changed the word if I had not withdrawn. The honourable member has the audacity to raise this as a matter of public importance. It is all right for the Friends of the Earth to demonstrate outside this building. It is all right for teachers to come to Canberra to demonstrate. That is a respectable demonstration. On 27 April 1976 the member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  asked a question of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in which he said: 
Has it been brought to the attention of the Minister that a number of prominent farmers from north-west Tasmania are planning to block public streets and highways in Tasmania with tractors and farm machinery to draw attention to their desperate plight? 
That was a question by a Government supporter so why should I not talk about the Government as a whole as a government of hypocrisy? Of course it is a government of hypocrisy. Its supporters have a law for one section but not the other. For too long supporters of the Government were able to send our young men to Vietnam. They were able to do so by using their numbers in this Parliament. They ignored our protests against Australian involvement in Vietnam. And what did members of the Labor Party have to do? We had to go to the people and ask them to demonstrate non-violently against the actions of the government of the day. We asked them to show their indignation at the violence with which the then Australian Government was associating itself. My colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who will follow me in this debate, led some one hundred thousand demonstrators into the streets of Melbourne. It was a sight such as Melbourne had never seen before. I was associated with similar demonstrations in Sydney. I was proud of that association and I was prepared to meet the violence and corruption of the police at that time. I went to gaol in 1971 because members of the police force perjured themselves and there was a conflict of evidence in the court. But one must have the courage of his convictions. 
The honourable member for Denison spoke of reports of my remarks in Perth appearing in many newspapers. The honourable member is just an infant in this Parliament so I should give him a lesson. It is a fact of life, unfortunately that the same report of what happens in this Parliament appears in many newspapers throughout the nation. It is syndicated. The Press proprietors want to cut down on the wages of journalists. They do not want journalists to be independent. One journalist makes a report which is syndicated to all newspapers throughout Australia. I said earlier that there was not an accredited journalist at the meeting at which I spoke. Consequently one phoney and distorted report was made. 
I say that a phoney and distorted report was made. That report was syndicated throughout the country. What I stand by is my letter to the  Australian  newspaper and the copy of my address which I have had incorporated in Hansard. If honourable members want to question any of the facts in my letter to the  Australian  or any of my remarks in my opening address to that meeting I will answer them, but I will not be judged by innuendo. The honourable member can read my letter. I have been prepared to stand against power and privilege, even in the courts of this land. I have faced power and privilege. I have confronted the Packer Press and the Fairfax Press. I took the Packer Press to a jury of twelve, then to the Full Supreme Court of New South Wales, then to the Full High Court of Australia and then to the Privy Council. This was followed by a second trial and then I went back again to the New South Wales Full Supreme Court. When honourable members want to talk about power and privilege, I know something about what happens where real power lies. I have not been cowed by people who have real power so I will not be cowed by a lightweight such as the honourable member for Denison. So far as I am concerned, we must stand up for our rights. People should not restrict their means of demonstration to elections for the Parliament. They should use their right to demonstrate between elections whenever they determine it is necessary. In a democratic society people must be involved and must challenge and rechallenge policy proposals. That is the only way by which we will get an honest society. 
The real issue involved in this debate is not what I did as a member of the Parliament. Earlier today a motion of censure was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  This matter of public importance is a smokescreen to take real pressure off the Government in respect of its economic policies. Those Government supporters who timidly expressed concern about the Government's proposal to discontinue the $40 funeral benefit for pensioners are aware of the present economic chaos and the squeeze and crunch to come as a result of actions by the Federal bureaucracy. But they, as mere backbenchers, will toe the line. The real decisions are being made outside this Parliament and they will have little to say about them. This should be understood. The more the Australian people understand the situation the more they will seek to be involved in our society and consequently the more honest they will try to make our society function. 
-In seconding the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party's spokesman on economic matters- the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)-  I say that the Bill before the House is an example of the duplicity of the Fraser Government. On the one hand it honours an election commitment and on the other hand it is just one more breach of the Liberal-National Country Party's election promises. The promised and vaunted investment allowance is the election commitment that it did not break. The introduction of this allowance is based on the premise of an investment led recovery in our economy. It is a premise that even this Government and its supporters have started to question. Originally this premise was the basis of the Fraser Government's total economic strategy. But now it is only a part of the economic package that is supposedly designed to reduce inflation and to restore the level of economic activity. 
This Government's lack of economic expertise is shown up continually in its ad hoc measures and its sudden change in direction- in fact, in its total confusion. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  tell us that a major recovery is just around the corner. I question that assumption. I do not believe that there will be a major recovery while this Government is in power. Like all conservative governments before it, the Fraser Government accepts unquestioned the conservative Treasury doctrine on economic management policy- a doctrine that was designed by the capitalists for a capitalist system, a system that has broken down. According to this doctrine the best remedy for the economy is a severe dose of deflation based on a substantial increase in unemployment. This doctrine contends that it is possible to hit the economy hard and sustain the pressure for sufficient time to dampen wage demands and inflationary expectations. After this pressure has been applied for a time the argument is that it should then be possible gradually to reflate the economy and to restore employment and the level of economic activity. 
One flaw in this sort of bludgeoning of the economy is that it is not possible to gauge accurately the impact of the policy. The main flaw in this doctrine is that it ignores any proper long term economic planning. It creates boom and then bust cycles on a continual basis- cycles that continue to hurt those who can least afford it, namely, the migrant, the low income earner and the small businessman. It does not recognise the real problems of the economy. It does not lead to sustainable economic recovery. It ignores the causes of the problem that the doctrine is designed to overcome. It does not recognise that true recovery and sustainable growth cannot occur until the causes of the problem are rectified. The Fraser Government's use of this doctrine amounts to no more than an attack on the wage earner and on the Labor movement. It is an expression of its ideology. 
The great danger to this country is the resurgence of those theorists who believe that severe deflation now will hasten the process of reducing inflation. This line of thinking must be resisted at all costs. The level of long term unemployment and the continual misuse of the country's resources would be intolerable. The people who propound these ideas- the theorists- and the politicians who put these savage doctrines into practice do so with only a hazy idea of the consequences. These people in the main do not think of the social implications of their policies, although some of them do. Those people with the real power- the people in the capitalist system outside the Parliament- realise the social consequences of this doctrine but they are not concerned about the social effects. All they want is to increase their own wealth and power. They are the people that this investment allowance is aimed at. 
Let us look at some of the more recent consequences of this doctrine. The first issue of the Australian Savings Bonds was intended to reduce the growth of the money supply to an annual rate of about 12 per cent. It backfired. It put the annual rate of growth of money into a negative rate. It increased the interest rates that potential home buyers had to pay. The Government ignored all the warning signs. It ignored our advice on the matter, it ignored the advice of the finance industry and it ignored the advice of those other sections of industry that could see the consequences. Another recent example is the cost cutting exercise that this Government has carried out in relation to the Hayden Budget. We recognise that it is always hard to reduce current spending. Capital spending can be deferred or chopped out of the Estimates with relative ease. That is what the Fraser Government has done. But the Government did not realise that it is a fundamental fact that the level of activity in the building and construction industry is heavily dependent on the public sector spending- I stress that aspect- particularly in the Australian Capital Territory. 
These actions highlight the lack of forward planning in the Government's economic policy as well as the long term implications of this type of approach to economic management. By increasing interest rates and not taking any measure to protect the key building and construction industry this Government has already set us back on the boom-and-bust cycle. Resources, both physical and material, are under-utilised in that industry. Unemployment is at a high level in this industry which directly and indirectly employs 20 per cent of the nation's work force. Skilled workmen and apprentices are laid off daily. Many will leave the industry and never return. This means that when the boom starts again- what this Government calls economic recovery- manpower resources will not be able to meet the increased demand. The cost of building will skyrocket and lead us into another bout of inflation which will end in a disastrous recession. This investment allowance will not aid this key industry. 
There are many other examples of industries in similar situations. These are the hidden and invidious consequences of this doctrine. We have said time and again in the past that the real power lies outside the Parliament. I stress that it lies outside the Parliament. For example, for the income year 1972-73 the report of the Commissioner of Taxation reveals that 210 000 companies made a taxation return, but fewer than 400 companies- less than 2 per cent of all companiesshared nearly 50 per cent of the total company profit. Of these 2 per cent most are multinationals. This is the group that this investment allowance is aimed at, but this will not revive the Australian industry. The investment decisions of these multinational corporations are not made in this country; they are made overseas. We have to stress that. The men who head these companies in foreign countries are the people who control our economy. These men, in conjunction with this conservative Government, are the people who will, if they have their way, bring about change- change for the worse- in our society. They are leading an attack on the wage earner- on real wage earnings. They intend to grab a much bigger slice of the cake for themselves. They intend to increase their wealth and power at the expense of the real wage earners. They are leading the fight to redistribute wealth from the poor to the rich. 
The establishment, the powerful economic interests that control this country, and the Fraser-Anthony Government that represents their interests have clearly chosen a strategy which amounts to no more than an attack on the wage earner, and the small businessman, the less privileged groups in our society. A key part of their economic strategy is the reduction of real wages. The most efficient way for capitalists to get their system out of its recession is to reduce the share going to the workers. As an example of an apparently successful implementation of this approach one has only to examine the situation in the United States. American workers had their real wages cut by at least 10 per cent in the last 2 years and unemployment in the United States went up to a level of about 10 per cent. At present in the United States about 9 million people are unemployed. That is the true basis of the much praised United States recovery. If this Government wants to support and duplicate that approach there is going to be massive unemployment in 1977. 
Let us look at the indicators this Government is using in developing its economic strategy. The Treasurer told us in his second reading speech that the signs of economic recovery are apparent in the increase in the number of new motor vehicle registrations. Does the Treasurer not understand anything about consumer spending? Does he not realise that the cost of cars in this country is shortly going to rise substantially because of the new pollution control requirements? Both the Prime Minister and the Treasurer continue to quote surveys of business confidence to assure us that economic recovery and the investment allowance are going to succeed. The initial confidence in this allowance received a severe setback when very few, in fact practically no, businesses took up their offer in the March quarter. The Government disregarded this fact and again quoted from surveys to show that a higher number of businesses intended to use this allowance in the next quarter. I think the result will again be the same. Few businesses will take up this allowance. Will motor vehicle manufacturers and associated industries take up the allowance when sales are going to drop? Will manufacturers of white goods and brown goods take up the allowance when retailers are facing a gloomy future? Will textile manufacturers who are closing down all over the country be helped by this allowance? Will building material suppliers take up the allowance? The answer quite simply is no, not in the current economic climate. They are not as naive as this Government. 
The multinationals know the realities. They will not make capital investments at this time. They will not take up the allowance. If they are not reinvesting in industry in their countries of origin, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Western Germany or Japan, they certainly will not do so in this country. I stress again that a few companies, those multinational companies- fewer than 400 of the 2 10 000 companies that make tax returns in our country- actually control the economy of this country. The smaller Australian companies know that it is useless to make capital investments unless there is an increase in the demand for their goods and services- a genuine resurgence of the economy. They realise that this Government is totally confused in its economic policy. They are not going to risk their own future because people in Canberra are trying to talk up the economy. 
The Government should heed the warning it got last week from the former Treasurer of the Federal Liberal Party,  Sir Charles  McGrath, to take care in cutting back expenditure on public works. I stress that it was not a Labor member; it was the Secretary of the Liberal Party who said: 'We warn you, do not cut back on public works. That is the one sector that can stimulate the private sector. ' That is what the Labor Government was doing. That is what he said to us. We agreed with him, and that is the situation. He was right when he said that the Government must appreciate that a substantial cut in Government spending would adversely affect the private sector. The private sector and the economy as a whole need large public sector involvement if a substantial recovery is to be achieved. 
The people of Australia must be made aware of the consequences of the Fraser Government's economic strategy. It is a strategy designed to decrease real wages. The Government wants to move wealth from the workers to those whom they really represent- the monopoly sector of this community. It is a strategy designed to decrease the goods and services provided by the Government. What this means is that the Government's share of the national income will decrease and this will in turn limit the services the Federal Government will be able to provide. This in turn will affect the lifestyle of all Australians, and I want to stress this aspect. It is a strategy designed to increase the wealth and the power of the establishment and those powerful companies that I have mentioned at the expense of the worker and the people 's quality of life. 
This Bill also spells the virtual destruction of the mortgage interest tax deductibility scheme. This is only one more breach of the Liberal Party's election promises. The Fraser Government's policy before the December elections stated unequivocally that it would continue to support the tax deductibility scheme. This promise has now been broken. The Treasurer said that the tax deductibility scheme was not getting to the core of the problem facing the home buyer. He said that the core of the problem was the deposit gap. This is just another example of the lack of understanding of the Fraser Government. While the deposit gap is still a problem the core of the problem now is the repayment-income gap, not the deposit gap. 
By the virtual destruction of the scheme the Government also shows that it never understood the reason that Labor introduced the scheme. The tax deductibility for mortgage interest repayments was introduced to offset the added burden on the home buyer brought about by a general rise in interest rates. I ask the Government now in power whether it will reduce interest rates. The rise meant that the majority of home buyers had to meet much higher repayments than they were accustomed to. Our scheme was designed to promote relief to those people on low and middle incomes burdened with heavy repayments. I will discuss that aspect more fully in the Committee stage. I ask honourable members opposite to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Foreign Minister. Does the Government regard as adequate the Indonesian proposal to allow a 50-man assembly drawn from 450 local rulers in East Timor to decide the country's future? If not, what action will the Australian Government take to bring about a genuine act of selfdetermination for the people of East Timor? Will the Minister tell the House whether Indonesia has asked Australia to send observers to witness this socalled act of free choice? Can he state what the Government's response has been? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Is consideration being given to handing over the administration of the Defence Service Homes Act to State institutions. 
If so. at what level are discussions taking place with the States, and have the States responded to this suggestion. 
If they have responded, either favourably or unfavourably, what were the general reactions of the States approached. 
Have the RSL and other ex-servicemen's and women's organisations been consulted cither before or after the States were approached: if so, what was the reaction of those groups. 
5 ) If consideration is being given to such a transfer of administrative responsibility, what discussions have taken place with representatives of the Defence Service Homes Staff or representatives of unions affected. 
If this suggestion is to be proceeded with what will be the effects on the employment future of Defence Service Homes staff employed in (a) head office and (b) State offices. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Will the honourable gentleman advise the House the background calculations used to arrive at the figure of just over $l,000m as the estimated cost of indexation in 1976-77? In forming the estimate, what was the projected gross growth in incomes in 1976-77? Will the Treasurer also state the most realistic estimate available for the rate of inflation in 1 976-77? 
I have 2 reasons for making this response to the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  As the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development I must say that my special area of concern has taken the heaviest blows from the so-called 'expenditure cuts'. The communities concerned with the quality of life in the suburbs were sufficiently large in 1972 and again in 1974 to place and to keep a Labor government in office. I, and my colleagues, were and continue to be deeply committed to the goal of a better life for the ordinary people in Australia. When in office we attracted a number of skilled and dedicated people to plan and implement our government programs. 
In the area of urban and regional development we managed to bridge the gap between government and the people. The community, for the first time, was consulted in a regular way. Some provision was being made for people and for the future life of our communities. Now in a bloodyminded way this Government has hacked all those programs to pieces. It has not escaped the attention of thinking people in this country that the main reason for this savage attack on the Department of Urban and Regional Development is petty, high-handed revenge by the LiberalNational Country Party Government on concepts and efforts that were basically good for the Australian people. 
Dear as Labor's urban and regional programs are to my heart my second reason for responding to the Lynch Budget statement is probably the most important. That is this: That I see in the attitudes, the activities and the statements of this Government, such as the one last Thursday, a fundamental, arrogant and aggressive attitude to the ordinary people of Australia- those people whose interests the Australian Labor Party represents. Specifically I take the cornerstone of the Liberal-National Country Party Government economic policy- that is, that real wages must fall so that new investments can take place- to be an unnecessarily harsh attack on the interests of all people who rely on wages and salaries to provide for, and maintain, their standard of living. I have to hand it to this Government; it has made a very clever effort at clouding its intentions to the man in the street. 
The Treasurer says that he has managed a very significant cut of $2.6 billion in government expenditure for 1976-77. But it is difficult for the ordinary voter to understand that this cut is not some very skilled saving of taxpayers' money that would otherwise have been spent or 'wasted', as the Treasurer seems to equate the 2 words. No, this much publicised cut is from the forward estimates from the preliminary and rough projections for 1976-77 that are a normal early step in drawing up a Budget. It is almost as if the Treasurer has just discovered what the procedures for Budget construction are. The Treasurer has cut $2.6 billion from a very rough forecast figure. A figure that is 'secret' because of Treasury's refusal to release it, and given the sly behaviour of the Liberal-Country Party Government in the past, quite possibly a fictitious and unnecessarily inflated figure into the bargain. If this Government is trying to talk up business and consumer confidence it will have to try something a little less transparent the next time. 
The so-called mini Budget has been presented to the man in the street as some great advance in welfare. At this point I must say that I am pleased at the implementation of one of the recommendations of the Henderson report on poverty. Some relief is provided to the suffering of the poorest families in our community, particularly by a measure directed at the children of poor families and is deserving of support. The only trouble is that the rest of the package combined with this Government's policies for the reduction of real wages and the maintenance of high levels of unemployment in order to temper wage claims will guarantee that more and more families and more single people, both old and young, will be sucked down below the poverty line. 
The package presented to the wage earnerthe plus items of wage indexation and increased endowment, combined with the minus of the Medibank levy and the loss of deductibility for children- was presented as a 'sensible policy' that would add to his, the wage earner's, welfare. Yet from the Treasury minutes published in the  Age  newspaper, the Government knew that 57 per cent of taxpayers would be worse off as a result of the measures announced last Thursday night. Let us take this 57 per cent and work from there. Many of the other 43 per cent of wage and salary earners will also be worse off in 12 months time, if their incomes after tax do not increase by at least the same rate as the consumer prices including indirect taxes. 
Under the arrangements worked out by the Labor Government wage indexation guaranteed that growth wages would go up in line with prices. Net wages were eroded to some extent by taxation but amounts still close to the real wage were maintained and employers became familiar with the principle that their wage bill would go up by an amount sufficient to compensate workers for price rises. Now we are on the brink of shattering that understanding. The Fraser Government has not introduced tax indexation out of any concern for the workers' tax bill. The Prime Minister has introduced it as one convenient part of a plan to break wage indexation and thereby ensures that the real wages of wage and salary earners is more quickly eroded. 
To the 57 per cent who were directly worse off as a result of last Thursday night, plus the great bulk who will also lose out when wage indexation is busted, we have to add those who will lose out by the now widely anticipated rise in indirect taxes. The Federal Government looks odds on to increase indirect taxes in order to balance the Budget in August. Also, since  Mr Fraser  's federalism basically means 'squeeze the States', it seems certain that the States will have to increase their indirect taxes simply to maintain on-going programs. Any of the wage and salary earners who have escaped so far have also to consider whether they have a mortgage on their home or hire purchase commitments because the inevitable outcome of the coalition's approach to economic management is that interest rates will rise. Also, these people have to remember that the Labor Government's scheme of making interest rates on housing loans tax deductible has been abandoned by  Mr Fraser's  economic managers. 
There are around 88 per cent of taxpayers on less than $240 a week. Around 98 per cent are on less than $300 a week. This vast bulk of the people who do the work in our economy will lose out directly, in terms of their incomes and what they can buy with them, as a result of the Fraser Government's economic strategy. On top of this there is an extra indirect loss. Because the provision of certain public goods adds to the ordinary persons standard of living, the pattern of cuts in government spending announced on Thursday night will mean maximum losses of public services to the ordinary man and woman. An extra ship in the defence budget or the gross and anti-egalitarian hand outs of superphosphate bounties did nothing to improve the suburban families' standard of living. The massive cuts in expenditure on sewerage, the shutting down of community health centres, the dismantling of Medibank certainly have reduced their standard of living- reduced the standard of living of the majority of Australians. The costs to the vast majority of the people of this Government's economic policies and philosophies is very high. 
Now let us look at who benefits. Take, for example, the tax indexation and the Government s wages policies. The combined effect of these measures is a 2-fold Governmentorchestrated benefit to the private profit sector of the economy. The Fraser Government provided tax indexation so that the employees' wage demands can be cast aside. In effect, the Government pays, in the form of revenue foregone, part of the wage and salary earners' justified incomes increases in 1976-77. This is not to help the employee, but it is to help the employer, at a cost to government revenue. Then, the Government intervenes in the wages case, and makes the case for breaking wage indexation on the grounds that it, the Government, has provided tax relief. If that case is successful, the employers again benefit, their wages bills do not rise in line with prices and the employees take the loss. The result- and this is the whole point of this Government's attitude- is that the private sector profits. When we really look at the Government policy intentions, we can see that those intentions make a mockery of the Prime Minister's claims that his Government is working for the well-being of all Australians. Such claims are becoming as transparent as his attempts to talk up business confidence. 
I will go so far as to offer a little advice. This Government should begin to treat the people of this country who sell their labour, if they can, to earn a living, with somewhat more respect. It should credit them with some more sense than it does at present. It should be somewhat more honest in its dealing with them. After all, 88 per cent of them rely on less than $240 per week to live. These are the people who will be hardest hit by the indirect losses brought about by the Government's economic package. These are the people whose standard of living will drop because the Fraser Government has ceased to provide important public services to the community. 
The Department of Urban and Regional Development was widely recognised as the vehicle for the Labor Government's concern with the quality of life and the provision of public services. The attack on the programs aimed at improving the quality of life amounts to no more than another attack on real wages. Real wages equate with living standards. Real wages are not just made up of money in the pay packet; an important element is provided by the quality of life enjoyed by people. The cut backs announced last week in sewerage programs, in growth centres, in land commissions, in area improvement programs to local government, in transport, in the preservation of the National Estate mean that the Fraser Government is abdicating its responsibility to most Australians. 
These cut backs mean that the Fraser Government has contracted out of improving the quality of life in our major cities. It has turned its back on 85 per cent of Australia's population. This was done in the name of Fraser s federalism. Fraser's federalism is a policy which makes less money available to the States. It is a policy which says that the responsibility for cities, for transport, for sewerage, for the supply of serviced urban land and urban improvement lies with the States and local government. It is a policy which says to the States and local government: 'If you want to improve the urban environment, pay for it yourself. It is a policy which means that the States will have to increase indirect taxes, or charge a surtax on personal income tax. It will mean that sewerage and water rates will rise, that local government rates will rise and that motor vehicle registration costs will increase. This will happen all because the Fraser Government has opted out of the Federal system. The consequences of this will be enormous. 
The Fraser Government and its federalism has returned Australia to the 1950s and the 1960s. All this adds up to a lowering of living standards- an attack on our environment and real wages. Because there has been a major cutback by the Government on public works there will be a substantial increase in unemployment. I dare to say that by early next year the number of unemployed people in this country will be in excess of 500 000. We have not seen such unemployment since the end of the Second World War. That is the policy that this Government has put down and that is the policy of Fraser's federalism. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The aim of this Bill is to destroy the regional concept of assistance to local government which was carefully built up by the Labor Government. This is implied rather than stated plainly in the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  which fails to put the Government's much vaunted new federalism policy into any sort of logical framework. Enough has come out of the speech to show that the marked improvements in support for local government made over the past 3 years are about to be destroyed. 
I want to commence my remarks by looking at the impact of these changes on the evolving concept of regionalism. Then I want to look at the impact of the Government's federalism policy on the finances and the functions of local government. The Minister claims that the regional system is artificial and that this artificial system has been imposed on shires and councils against their will. According to this sort of fuzzy thinking the regions are a tool of the evil central government designed to frustrate local government units and deny them the funds that they need. That sort of distortion ignores 2 points. Firstly, there has been a very high degree of acceptance of regionalism by local government. Secondly, the use of regional organisation is by far the most effective way of delivering a large number of Government programs at the community level. 
Let me develop those points in turn. There is no doubt that in the initial stages much of local government was sceptical about the sort of regional framework we sought to develop. Each local government unit had become used to working in its own area. It took some vision to accept that there were advantages in joining together on a regional basis. It is also true that much of the previous experience with regionalism had been unfortunate. For example, previous federal governments had worked with some 38 different concepts of regions for the functioning of daytoday government. There were also completely differing sets of regional concepts devised by the State governments. Those regional concepts were reflected in sets of regional boundaries which showed remarkable variations. As a result, local government had to thread its way through a confused and inefficient maze of regions. It is little wonder that the regional concept was unpopular with local government. 
We set out to overcome that bad image and to put regionalism on a rational basis. We tried to define sensible groupings of regions which could be used for a whole range of functions and programs by all levels of government. Rather than seeking to impose regions upon the States and local government, we worked very closely with the State and local government authorities in deciding the best regional boundaries. In the great majority of cases those regional groupings were the same as the groupings favoured by the States. Where the regional groupings did not exist, as in some major metropolitan areas, we suggested the boundaries. In the beginning, some States were not happy to apply the groupings in the large cities, but they accepted the regional concept for Grants Commission purposes after dialogue between officials at an AustralianState government level. In no case did we impose a regional grouping which was not acceptable to a State government. Gradually the States came more and more to see the merits of the regional framework and to work within it. 
Over the 3 years of the Labor Government there was an increasing acceptance that the regional organisation of councils that we had defined should become the basis for all regional programs and regional administration. Even more encouraging was the marked movement of local government to strong support for regionalism. That was reflected in resolutions passed by local government conferences and in statements by local government spokesmen. There is no doubt in my mind that the majority opinion of local government now favours the use of regions as a planning tool and as a vehicle for program delivery. 
In no sense is the regional concept that we sponsored an artificial one. Most of the boundaries for State and local government units are artificial. The logic behind the boundaries of the mainland States and the shires and councils of Australia are lost in the archives. It is not possible to define 75 or so regional boundaries with complete logic, but we tried to bring local government units together in accordance with an identity of interest. That was not always possible, but for the most part the job was done as well as it could have been done. In the purest sense the regions may be artificial, but they are no more artificial than most of our other units of government. 
The initial reason for drawing up the regions was our decision to open up the processes of the Grants Commission to local government. By loosely grouping more than 900 shires and councils into 70 or so regions it was possible to evolve a regional framework for the purposes of the Grants Commission. This framework was gradually being extended to our other programs- in particular, the area improvement program and the Regional Employment Development scheme. At the same time we were bringing those regions based on local government units into closer harmony with the regions evolved for the Australian Assistance Plan. 
It is no secret that there was some conflict between those two sets of regions. The Australian Assistance Plan was based for the most part on the participation of community groups, and this was resented by local government. On the other side, community groups which felt that they had got nothing out of local government preferred to work through a regional concept based on the community. There was an element of justice in both arguments. One of the great things about the regional approach was the way in which it brought a closer relationship between local government and the level of community participation. Much of the community was alienated from conventional local government. 
But the programs of the Labor government for the first time brought the national government down to the community level. The demands of the programs brought local government and the community into a closer working relationship. In many ways that was the greatest achievement of regionalism. It was reflected in the growing awareness that the 2 patterns of regionalism could be reconciled. The Labor Government was also extending the use of the regional concept in other ways. Much work had been done in selecting regional centres where the Australian Government could decentralise and locate its services. A lot of the work of the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration was directed towards decentralising the services of government. In particular much progress had been made in the area of switching the delivery points of specific services out of Canberra and out of the State capitals to regional centres. 
This was the first step in a planned evolution of administration away from the centre. This process of getting government away from the centre and out to the people has been tragically reversed by the so-called new federalism. The people of Australia should ask: Who are the centralists? Is it the Government which makes a firm commitment to switch public servants and program delivery out of Canberra and out of the capital cities to regional growth centres and to other centres? Or is it the Government which scraps the transfer of Australian public servants and wipes out the programs on which decentralised federalism linking the community with the 3 levels of Government can be based? 
The policies of new federalism are strongly centralist policies; I have no doubt about that point. The record shows that our party was anticentralist. The Department of Urban and Regional Development, in particular, was an anti-centralist department and everybody knows it. Whether  Mr Hamer  or  Mr Dunstan  is asked one will find that they will stand up and publicly agree with that statement. The 3 years of Labor Government included the most concerted effort in Australian history to reverse the centralist thrust of federalism.This process was hinged on building up an effective basis of regionalism, a process which is abolished by this centralist government with this centralist Bill. 
There is no doubt that support for regionalism is growing. I want to refer quickly to just one example for this backing. There are many others but this is one of the most recent. I refer to a telegram from 8 South Australian regions representing more than half of that Stated population. It was sent earlier this year to  Senator Greenwood.  The telegram asserts the aim of the regional organisations to continue working together because of the value to local government of consolidating on a regional basis. It goes on to list 7 strong reasons for the value of regionalism as a forum for local government to discuss and resolve common problems; as a structure through which general purpose planning may occur; as machinery for delivery of government programs and funds; as a delivery point for regional services; as a means of spreading information; as a means of giving professional help to member councils as they cope with change; and as a means of giving advice to assist federal and State governments in decentralising their functions. AH are strong reasons for the preservation of regionalism. Despite the wide support of local government, this process of voluntary and cooperative regionalism based on groupings of shires and councils is to be destroyed by this Bill. 
Three years of painstaking effort to get a regional system working is to be axed at a time when it is plainly successful and welcomed by local government. Now the only statutory basis for regional organisations of shires and councils throughout Australia is to go. This is the first tragedy of this reactionary BUI. The second is the removal of the Grants Commission from the process of local government finance. There is no doubt that this has been a great boon to local government. The Grants Commission has unique experience in the process of equalisation of financial assistance. By opening up this expertise to more than 900 local government units throughout Australia principles of equalisation were applied to local government. The whole thrust of this effort was to bring assistance to poorer shires and councils whose facilities and services were lagging badly behind. Undoubtedly there were defects in the process because we cannot build up this sort of machinery overnight. A handful of shires and councils missed out on grants and a small proportion of councils felt that they had been shortchanged. The overwhelming number of councils accepted the formulas applied by the Grants Commission and welcomed the quite substantial assistance it provided. Now access of local government to the Federal Grants Commission is to be abolished. Instead, the Government is to allocate a fixed proportion of revenue to local government. Part is to be allocated on a weighted per capita basis. 
We know what this means. It will be weighted in the same unfair and unjust way as coalition governments have weighted the electoral- boundaries. Areas of real need which benefited from the Grants Commission approach will be sacrificed to the wealthier councils. The rest of the allocation is to be distributed by new grants commissions to be set up in the States. This is the policy of the so-called coalition of small government. It abolishes the work which was being done effectively by one commission and replaces it with 6 State commissions. A government pledged to cutting out waste and duplication has no qualms about forcing duplication on the States. 
It should also be stressed that the Federal Grants Commission has built up expertise in principles of equalisation over 40 years. How can the new grants commissions of the States match these skills and experiences? Honourable members know that the skills and experiences necessary in such grants commissions are in extremely short supply in this country. Now the Government intends to abolish one such commission and create another six. There is going to be competition. Do the States have the money and the apparatus, the strength and the will to set up these grants commissions with the necessary expertise to carry out equalisation programs? Can such bodies equal the experience of the Federal Grants Commission with its 40 years of expertise? Even the Federal Grants Commission has developed enormously over the last 3 years as a result of its involvement with local government. Not only was there a difference from State to State, even within States we found a great deal of inequality. That is why the Labor Government moved into that situation and supported that concept in the first place. 
If we look a little closer at the percentage of personal income tax going to local government it emerges quite strongly that local government will lose from this change. I know that local government always has urged that it be given a fixed proposition of revenue in this way. On the face of it local government might appear to be better off. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has announced that $140m will go to local government in 1976-77 under the new formula. At first sight this seems substantially more than the $80m distributed last year in the operation of Labor's equalisation program under the Grants Commission. But if we look a little closer it emerges quite plainly that local government will be much worse off than it was in the last 2 years. For a start there is the split-up between  per capita  grants and equalisation grants. There is no doubt that the Government is strongly in favour of most of this money going into  per capita  grants. The principle of equalisation, of giving help to the needy shires and councils, will be given very low priority. All the States except Western Australia want most of this money to go into equalisation grants. So do most of the local government units. That is the view of the States and that is the view of local government but this centralist government has made up its mind. It set its pattern without dialogue with local government. Yet the lion's share of this $140m will be directed to local government in a way which will produce gross inequities. There will be a redistribution of income away from the poorer to the wealthier shires and councils. 
Another factor is the application of tax indexation which substantially reduces the value of personal income tax as a growth tax. For this reason the State governments have sought assurances that the new growth tax will not be eroded by indexation. No such guarantee will be applied to local government. Even if local government thinks that it is starting off well in the first yearand I question that it is- it will steadily fall behind. Another element of strong injustice to local government is that the decisions on what it gets will be made at the June Premiers Conference, where local government will not be represented. This leaves local government at the mercy of State Premiers who have never been disposed to treating local government fairly or to increasing its access to funds, as honourable members opposite will know, because they opposed the referendum we put before the people of Australia in relation to local government, just as many of the conservative State Premiers opposed it. 
Even the level of assistance going to local government is open to criticism: The States and local government have sought a minimum of 2 per cent a year. The allocation of $ 140m is well below the 2 per cent of personal tax collections; it is nearer to 1.5 per cent, and possibly below that figure. Even at the outset local government is getting a bad deal from the 'New Federalism '. If we take into account the funds which flowed to local government from Labor programs, most of which are now abolished, local government is worse off. Local government got a substantial injection of funds from the national sewerage program. Funds made available under that program have been savagely slashed by almost 60 per cent, and local government will suffer. About 75 per cent of the Regional Employment Development scheme money went to local government. That scheme has now been abolished. It should never be forgotten that that employment creating scheme, based on local assistance, was challenged in the High Court of Australia by a Liberal Government at a time of rising unemployment. Now the Fraser Government has completely abolished the scheme, even though unemployment is still high and will certainly increase in the months ahead. The Area Improvement Program, which gave substantial assistance to deprived regions throughout 
Australia, has been abolished. The national estate program has been chopped. Much of that assistance also flowed through to local Government. Federal funding of the Australian Assistance Plan, which was devoted to local activity, is on its last legs. Other community programs have either been abolished or reduced to the point of uselessness. If all of these programs are taken into account, then the new federalism has brought heavy penalties to local government. 
In the 1975-76 Budget Labor made about $230m available to local government. If honourable members examine the Budget Papers which are available in the Bills and Papers office they will clearly see on page 1 33 of Budget Paper No. 7 that $230m was made available last year to local government. That figure can be compared with the $140m proposed to be made available this year. That $230m represents about 2.2 per cent of personal income tax yield. Taking into account indexation and expected lower tax yields, it would amount to about 3 per cent in 1976-77. Honourable members should compare that with the $140m, or less than 1.5 per cent, that this Government intends to direct to local government. I stress that the figure of $230m does not include, with the exception of the Area Improvement Program, the programs I listed earlier; nor does it include assistance to local government for roads. If all these figures are totalled, there is no doubt that local government's relative position has fallen dramatically. That is what the new federalism has done to local government. It has given it the illusion of greater freedom and independence from its new federal partners. But at the same time it has chopped off much of the flow of existing revenue to local government. It has redistributed the amount of assistance given in a grossly inequitable way. 
The new federalism is a gigantic fraud. The States were conned into looking on it favourably at the last Premier's Conference. They will not be so charitable in June. Ask  Sir Eric  Willis what he thinks about the new federalism. Ask any Premier who has to counter the risks of double taxation what he thinks about new federalism. It is just as dangerous and unfair in its treatment of local government. Local government should be aware of the fact that it will lose hand over fist if it blindly accepts the new federalism system. There is no doubt in my mind that the new federalism will be a colossal failure. In a year's time it will be so badly discredited that it will be abandoned. The Labor Party has nothing to fear from these policies of new federalism. The victim of the new system will be the State and local government bodies which have put their faith in it. This tragic experiment which is doomed to fail has destroyed 3 years of creative work in evolving a new federal structure based on the community and linking the 3 tiers of government together in decentralised patterns of administration. We completely oppose the Bill and we completely oppose the federalist philosophy which underpins it. 
Is the Foreign Minister aware that the last UDT leaders who co-operated with the Indonesians in their invasion of East Timor have been imprisoned? Is he aware that  Mr Tomadok,  the former Indonesian Consul to East Timor, has now been made Governor of East Timor? Does he agree that these events remove the last vestige of hope for a genuine act of selfdetermination in East Timor? Will the Australian 
Government protest to the Indonesian Government on this matter? Will the Australian Government protest on this matter before the United Nations? 
Does the Treasurer agree that a large reduction in the rate of increase in the money supply can dry up working capital, cause unemployment and retard recovery? Can he say what changes have actually taken place in the rate of increase in the money supply in recent months? Will he assure the House and the nation that no sudden or large change in the rate of increase in the money supply will take place? 
I want to confine my remarks in this debate to local government. For a variety of reasons the role of local government in our federal system must be upgraded. The first question that this Government and every State government must answer is: After over 100 years of State dominated local government how independent and how well-funded is local government today? After all, it was the conservative governments of Menzies, Holt, Gorton and McMahon that over 23 years of office put local government in the economic and debt straitjacket that it is in today. If the Government answered honestly it would publicly say that the real and financial independence of local government is a myth. 
Every local council in every State is short of money. Every council in every State is bound hand and foot by hundreds of pages of Acts, ordinances and regulations. We recognised the dilemma facing local government. It was our intention when in government to elevate local government to its proper role as an equal working partner in the federal system. We tried to do this by a referendum held in conjunction with the May 1974 elections. The then Federal Opposition and its conservative State partners urged a 'No' vote to that referendum question- the then Federal Opposition for narrowminded political purposes and the States to keep local government effectively under their thumbs. The referendum proposal was to give the Australian Government power to make grants direct to local government. These would be grants of any type at all. They could be repayable advances, or they could be tied or untied grants. The conservative forces made out that the Federal Labor Government would give grants only with detailed conditions or on a tied basis. They raised the cetralism bogy, the fear of all power being in Canberra. They said that we were trying to force the compulsory amalgamation of local governments to do away with the States. This is a lie. But then, the conservative forces in this country have lived so long the lie, the innuendo and the smear. 
The truth of the matter is that the States did not want to lose their power over local government. They did not want to treat local government as an equal partner in the federal system. They held fast to the view that it is the responsibility of the State governments to consider the needs of local government in their States and to ensure that the workings and responsibility of local government are considered with those of other authorities within each State according to their State priorities. The financial mess that local government is in today and has been for the last 2 decades indicates the priorities which the State governments give to local government. The Australian Labor Government took positive steps to overcome in the longer term the problems facing local government. We took the initiative to give untied grants- I emphasised that these grants were untied and unconditional- to local government through the machinery of the Grants Commission. That Commission undertook a detailed and impartial investigation of the relative needs and disadvantages of all local authorities in Australia. It made an impartial recommendation as to the amounts of money that should be allocated by the Federal Government to local government. 
The role of the Grants Commission will cease very shortly. Beyond the Grants Commission aid, the Australian Government took other steps to relieve the financial burden of local government. The national sewerage program brought the Australian Government for the first time directly into financing the most basic services provided by government. The Labor Government designed its program to overcome the sewerage backlog in our major cities and also to assist semi-government and local government authorities which are the bodies that provide these basic services and the bodies hardest hit by the ignorance and inaction of successive conservative governments between 1949 and 1972. These conservative governments allowed the debt burden of semi-government authorities to increase by 2800 per cent in the 20 years prior to 1970. In that period, the debt of local government has increased some 2000 per cent. The internal debt burden of the Australian Government has remained practically static In fact the debt burden of local and semi-government authorities increased some 55 per cent. That rise was due to increases in interest rates. The actual debt itself remained static in that period. The rise of 2000 per cent in the debt of local government and 2800 per cent in semi-government authorities in that period was the result of the negative thinking of the conservative forces in this country which are now controlling the Treasury benches. 
We could not allow this situation to continue. But the Fraser Government will. It will abolish the national sewerage program, using the argument that their new federalism policy will guarantee State and local governments a share of the growth tax, that is, personal income tax. This is a sham, and was recognised as such by the people of New South Wales in the recent State election. In the near future it will be recognised by all Australians as a lie. This Government is asking the States and local government to accept the uncertainty of the level of future funding for the essential services they provide. These and other programs too numerous to mention brought much assistance and many opportunities to local government. Some of these innovations also involved local government and the community at the grass roots level decision-making process. Through these programs and our regionalism concept we, in office, were developing participatory democracy in this country- not centralism in Canberra or the State capitals, which in fact has been so much the case for so long, but government by the people and for the people at the local government and grass roots levels. Labor, in developing its regionalism concept, recognised that the individual living standards of the average family, especially in environmental and cultural terms, depend more on the initiatives and efficiency of local government than on the initiative and efficiency of either State or Federal governments. We recognise that local government provides the opportunity for competitive diversity in those qualities of life which Australian families would like to see achieved in the environment of their choice. 
In co-operation with the States we created regional boundaries throughout Australia. In the non-metropolitan areas, the boundaries already used by the State governments were accepted. There was complete co-operation, complete unanimity between the Australian Government and the State governments in this regard. Some States were not happy with the concepts in the metropolitan areas, but accepted the boundaries for the purposes of the Grants Commission Act. Each local government body in each region was asked to elect a representative to the Regional Organisation council. This was to be a coordinating body for the purpose of making submissions to the Grants Commission. It was felt that the same body might also develop into an appropriate organisation to be involved in the administration of both the Australian Government and State government programs. It was also an attempt to direct people's attention to their environment and to encourage them to become involved in solving the problems of their community. 
Regionalism, to the Australian Labor Government, was an anti-centralist and anti-elitist creed. It was an evolving concept. We did not try to set down too many blueprints of how it should be carried out. We wanted it to evolve from the people, from the local governments at the grass roots level. It was an evolving and democratic process based on involvement in the decision making process. We considered that regions were in the best position to recognise more readily the defects in centralised policy making and to point them out to the State and Federal governments. We also saw regions as the most effective forms of clearing houses for the delivery of State and Commonwealth services to the community. It was also the best way in which the community and groups within the community could participate in the planning and decisionmaking process in respect of the services provided bv all levels of government. The majority of local government bodies throughout Australia are in favour of a voluntary and co-operative regionalism. The Fraser Government has no intention of helping local government achieve its rightful role in our Federal system. It will by deliberate action take away many of the new avenues of financial assistance  to local government. 
In its last Budget the previous Government made $230m available to local government- an amount equal to 2.2 per cent of the estimated yield of personal income tax and a much higher percentage than local government will obtain under the so-called Fraser federalism policy. Aid for roads and aid under the national sewerage program and the National Estate program are just some of the examples not included in these figures. Programs under the former Department of Tourism and Recreation are also not included. The Labor Government recognised that local government was an equal partner in the federal system and took positive steps to relieve its financial burden. 
The Fraser Government does not consider local government worthy of the recognition it receives. Spokesmen glibly talk of sharing personal income tax with the States and local government. Originally it was reported that, under the socalled 'Fraser's new federalism policy', 2 per cent of personal income tax would be made available to local government. Treasury argued that 1.2 per cent should be made available to local government last year. A compromise was reached and $140m will be made available to local government in 1976-77. This is approximately a 1.5 per cent share of personal income tax- at least 0.5 per cent less than the original request and a much smaller amount than the 2.2 per cent which local government received in each of the last 2 financial years. 
In his statement the other night the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said that it is an increase of 75 per cent. I challenge that contention. It is regrettable that the Fraser Government, in reaching its conclusions, made little attempt to look at local government finances or involve local government in formal discussions on its requirements. I am asked what this has to do with the Constitutional Convention. It has a great deal to do with it. The whole subject with which we are dealing concerns the relationship of local government and the Australian Constitution. We know that to conservative governments local government is only a creature of the States and has to abide by the decisions of the 
States. Local government has been put in a position of being in debt to this Government and to State governments. 
Participation in the recent Local Government Ministers Conference was agreed to only after much soul searching. Essentially this Government did not want to attend a conference that was going to consider local government finances. The relevance of this is that unless local government receives adequate financial resources it will never be an equal partner in our federal system. The problem of cities and urban communities can be solved only in a co-operative way with the 3 tiers of government working together, discussing their problems. To achieve this, local government should be an equal partner. I talk of the cities because 83 per cent of our people live in urban communities. But whether they be in urban or rural areas, local government should be an equal partner. We must solve the problems together. The Fraser Government should take steps to ensure that local government is elevated to its proper role as an independent partner, in both real and financial terms, in our federal system. Local government must be represented at the Constitutional Convention and must be given a more equitable membership on the proposed council for intergovernmental relations. Therefore I ask the Government to take more positive steps to make local government an equal partner within the Constitution. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What were the rates of increase in expenditure on building and construction in Australia, within (a) the residential sector and (b) the non-residential sector, attributable to (i) private and (ii) public investment, based on constant prices for each quarter since the June quarter 1973. 
What are the forecasts for these rates of increase in the March and June quarters 1976. 
What were the levels of expenditure on building and construction in Australia expressed in constant terms, within (a) the residential sector and (b) the non-residential sector, attributable to (i) private and (ii) public investment, for each quarter since the June quarter 1 973. 
What are the forecasts for these levels of expenditure in the March and June quarters 1976. 
I ask the Acting Minister for the Environment, Housing, and Community Development whether the environmental impact statement on the Concorde has been exempted from the requirements under the administrative procedures of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974-75. If the Government has exempted the environmental impact statement on the Concorde from these requirements, when will the Minister make public a summary of the reasons for granting the exemption? 
-Assistance to the States under this Bill- the States Grants (Air Quality Monitoring) Bill 1976- comes under the national air monitoring program instituted by the Whitlam Labor Government That program gives the Commonwealth an important role to play in the field of air pollution, not only by way of co-ordination and co-operation with the States but also as a solid supporter of monitoring and by conducting other research in its own right. Although the present Government has so far continued the national air monitoring program through this Bill, and while the then Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr MacKellar)  indicated his personal support for improved air quality monitoring in his second reading speech, what does the future hold for this program? The events of the last 6 months make me doubt whether the Government will give environmental matters the high priority they deserve, particularly when public health and safety is involved, let alone the protection of our national heritage. 
Last week's decision to allow the Concorde to fly to and from Australia without preparation of a final environmental impact statement is just one reason why I doubt the Government's intentions. The way in which the Fraser Government abolished large numbers of positions in the former Department of the Environment when it was made a part of the new Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development is another. The failure of the Government to appoint commissioners to the Heritage Commission and giving it very little financial muscle, the low priority it has given to the preservation of the national estate as witnessed by the Budget measures announced 10 days ago and its failure to appropriate any money for the National Parks and Wildlife Service in the supply Bills last week are just some reasons why all Australians must doubt this Government's integrity on environmental issues. 
It should be made clear that this Bill provides for what was intended to be the first allocation of moneys to the States for the purchase of monitoring equipment. Although conservative governments governed for 23 years prior to 1972, no steps were taken by those governments in this field. It was only when the Labor Party came to power that this action was taken in co-operation with the States. The Labor Government intended to assist the States to improve air quality monitoring over a 4 year period, not just one. The Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development did not indicate whether his Government intends to extend this program over the 4 year period. Perhaps the current Acting Minister will inform the House and the people whether this Government will give a long term commitment to this program. 
Automatic monitoring equipment is exceedingly expensive. A single van of instruments costs up to $80,000. Apart from having mobile stations it is essential that a series of other monitoring stations be established in each city for a satisfactory overall picture to be obtained. In view of these requirements a single grant of $33,333 from the federal Government to each State will not be particularly helpful unless the States receive further money, or unless increased funds are made available in the future. This is why the Government should state unequivocally its intention both to continue and to increase funding under this program in the future. 
Air pollution affects public health and it is the responsibility of governments to rectify the current situation and to prevent it from happening again in the future. We have let the car dominate our cities and our everyday existence. It was not planned to happen this way, but it happened and that is a fact of life. It happened because we have ignored the consequences of the motor car and the unplanned development of industry in our cities. The quality of air, the level of noise, the safety of people and the environment are threatened. Our cities today are a mess for these and other reasons. The problems of our cities are complex. To lessen the effect caused by man's impact on the environment we must face up to the need for complex solutions. Simple solutions are achieved only by ignoring the interconnections of all areas of human endeavour and the environment. There is no simple solution to improving the quality of our air. This is a complex problem, a problem which needs not only research into the type of pollutants in the air of our cities- research that will enable us to rectify the results of the past- but also research that will lead to better situated urban development in the future. 
I wonder whether Sydney would have been developed in the way it has been if the data now available had been known when that city region was first being developed. Existing data shows that the Sydney basin is the most seriously affected region in Australia in terms of photochemical smog. There is a simple reason for this- a reason not linked just to the amount of industry and the size of the city but a reason which is based on the nature of the Sydney basin itself. There is a broad and shallow stream of extremely stable air which flows eastwards from the Blue Mountains on most nights, particularly in the months of autumn and winter. This stream of air accumulates the air pollutants emitted near the ground level as it moves through and carries it back over the densely populated suburbs to the sea. It sweeps down from the industrial areas, particularly those surrounding the suburban areas of Parramatta, parts of which I represented for years and parts of which I still represent. I am speaking of areas such as Parramatta, Clyde, Camellia, Granville, Rydalmere and Silverwater. These pollutants sweep down over probably one of the most beautiful valleys in the whole of this nation- the Parramatta Valley- and they finish up over the central business district of Sydney. These pollutants create a photo-chemical smog over the city. The pollutants of greatest concern in these circumstances are sulphur dioxide and smoke. In fact, one factory alone in the Camellia area- the Shell oil refinery at Clyde- was emitting 35 tons of sulphur dioxide every day and 2 tons of alumina. The pollutants from this area sweep down through the Parramatta valley and over the central business district of Sydney. 
The air pollution problem of Sydney, particularly the western half, has been caused by the intensity of emissions from stationary and mobile sources compounded by topographical, meteorological and climatic characteristics of the area. The high frequency and persistence of low level temperature inversions maximise the impact of air pollution from ground level sources in that area. If the movement of air in the region due to these naturally occurring characteristics had been known before the city was developed perhaps the development of the industrial estates and the intensity of population in the western regions of Sydney would not have occurred. This is just one example; undoubtedly there are others throughput the country. Canberra itself is one example where data dealing with the movement of air could have, if it had been available, alleviated many of the problems caused by air pollution in our urban centres today. 
I feel that the air quality monitoring program is only a beginning. There is much more than the Federal and State governments can do about air pollution than just monitoring. We should not become self-congratulatory about this assistance because monitoring only demonstrates the problem; it does not reduce it. The Government should not fall into the trap of believing that it is doing something about pollution merely because it is measuring it. Positive steps must be taken to alleviate air pollution both by realistic legislation and by encouraging industry and town planners to take a more responsible attitude in the future. 
I have already spoken of the great potential for modelling studies as part of the national air quality monitoring program- modelling studies that are essential for small growing cities and new cities so that the same mistakes in capital city planning will not be repeated elsewhere. Modelling studies need to be done on Canberra. Canberra is a city which faces the likelihood of continuous growth and relatively poor public transport. Canberra could become the Los Angeles of tomorrow with its frequent stable inversion layers and infrequent winds. Yet Canberra receives no grant from this Bill. I might say that if the Federal Treasury has its way the motor car will be relied on more and more by the people of Canberra. Public transport will be starved of funds and to a certain extent this city could become a type of Los Angeles because of the over-use of the motor car. Obviously this cannot happen because of the nature of this Bill, but by the. same token, this Government could and should be conducting modelling studies in the Australian Capital Territory and the surrounding region now. 
One obvious area where industry could take positive steps in conjunction with the Government is the motor vehicle industry. An obvious avenue is to go for prevention rather than cure in the case of motor vehicle exhausts. Pollution caused by motor vehicle emissions is the main cause of the fast worsening photo-chemical smogs in our major cities. Admittedly we will shortly have new rules governing the level of exhaust emission from motor vehicles in this country; but this is the cure, it is not the prevention. Australian motor vehicle manufacturers and the Government, through its motor vehicle policy, now have a golden opportunity to introduce the philosophy of prevention. This approach is particularly relevant at a time when a number of motor vehicle manufacturers are considering building a 4-cylinder engine in Australia. 
Pollution has been documented in California and elsewhere since the 1940s, yet the major United States car manufacturers have persisted with their huge, inefficient, old-fashioned engines. In the face of increasingly stringent exhaust legislation, which those same companies tried to oppose vigorously, they have attached expensive, clumsy, shortlived and self-polluting gadgetries like catalytic converters to their ancient engines. They did not try to change the engine design itself. In the short term the same United States-owned manufacturers in Australia will use the same techniques to control vehicle exhaust pollution. They will do so in the long term as well unless the Government is very careful about the future of 4-cylinder engine manufacture in this country. If the Government makes the right choice then the majority of our future 4- cylinder engines will be Japanese, not American, in origin. Some Japanese makers, notably Honda and Mazda, have made great strides in improving engines from the inside. These companies, as well as several European manufacturers, have recognised their responsibilities to the community as manufacturers. They have taken positive steps to develop technology for the needs of the people. 
The Federal Government is now in a position to encourage this type of technology in this country by ensuring that nothing but the best new engines available are produced in Australia. If the Government takes the right decision with regard to motor manufacturing in this country and if it continues to support the spirit of this legislation, in the future air pollution in this country can be brought back to a satisfactory level. It is for these reasons that the Opposition supports the Bill which, I say again, is a proposal which was first put forward by a Labor government seeking the co-operation of the States. I commend this Bill to the House because it reflects a spirit of co-operation in which the Australian Government and the State governments will be working together in the interests of the people. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it true that the decision of the Fraser Government to reduce the amount of money allocated to the Australian Housing Corporation for defence service homes purposes from the $ 122.5m appropriated in 1975-76 to $110m in the next financial year means that the waiting period will not be reduced from one year but, in fact, will be increased? 
-I seek leave to make a short statement. 
The statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is inadequate and it is window dressing after such a long period of time has elapsed. It continues to attempt to provide a smokescreen, a cover-up of the truth about the sad circumstances surrounding the death of the 5 newsmen in East Timor. With Machiavellian hypocrisy this House is presented - 
-I withdraw that remark. This House is presented with an alleged concern for the distress of the next of kin of the journalists in an attempt to evade unpalatable facts. 
-The facts of Balibo are known.  Mr Foreign  Minister, I say quite clearly that mistakes can be made on both sides of the House. We are not trying to evade any question at all. If I have made mistakes then I will be prepared to face up to them, but all we are trying to do is to get Australians as a body of people to come together to try to get the truth about these incidents in East Timor, and we have to look at this on a long term basis. I say, through  Mr Speaker,  that I am not trying to lay the blame on you,  Mr Foreign  Minister. I believe that in many respects you have been a man of goodwill, but in many other respects I think you have been a little false in your accusations against my Leader. Because I have personal commitments in this matter I have seen copies of documents about which accusations have been made against my Leader. May I say that the accusations against the Leader of my Party which come from the Government side of the House are completely false. I wish to goodness that these smears and innuendos would stop and we started getting together as a team. I put this to you,  Mr Foreign  Minister, because I think on this issue you are man of goodwill and we want to work with you, not against you; but there are elements within your Department which I do not think you are facing up to. You know that I have confided in you in correspondence because of my concern about the personnel carrying out the inquiry into the deaths at Balibo. 
I say again: The facts of Balibo are known. The Government's intelligence agency and the Minister's own Department know the truth- and I stress that,  Mr Minister-  yet this House and the Australian people continue to get evasions from the Government and lies from the Indonesian generals. What sort of inquiry was this? It was a Foreign Affairs Department inquiry. It was Caesar examining Caesar. Yet, as has become abundantly clear in the last few days, senior Foreign Affairs officials have been acting over Timor in a manner at least sympathetic to the Indonesian Government's brutal and unprovoked annexation of East Timor. The Government's inquiry comprised officers from our embassy in Jakarta. One would have thought that the subordinates of an ambassador noted for his appreciation of Indonesia's desire to annexe East Timor would hardly constitute a serious inquiry. We know what has happened. Dubious denials of Jose Martins' account by Tomas Goncalves a virtual prisoner at best and a quisling at worst, are not evidence. We ask the Australian Government what action it is taking. This statement does not tell us. There is too much care and caution and not enough determination. 
In my view the way in which the 5 young people were ill-treated and the attitude of the Indonesian authorities will have an enormous influence on our relationships with the Indonesian Government in the future. I stress again that the Minister knows that the Leader of my Party wrote to President Suharto on 7 November expressing concern about these deaths, but proper consideration has not been given to that communication. We cannot accept the proposition that Australia's relationship with the Indonesian people will be destroyed if we take a moral stand on the rights of the people of East Timor to independence and seek the truth about the death of these S young men. Australia has had good relations with Indonesia for over 25 years. The Indonesian people remember our support for their struggle for national independence. I point out that it was our Government that gave great support to the Indonesian people for independence and self-determination. They would understand our support for national independence for the Timorese people. People are dying in Timor and the Australian Government does very little because it does not want to offend the militarist elite of the Indonesian generals. 
Our position should be clear. We call upon the Indonesian generals to acknowledge responsibility for the death of these 5 young journalists. Also we support the claim of the Victorian branch of the Australian Journalists Association for compensation for next of kin. They should be only the first steps in the move towards establishing the truth about East Timor. I stress this to the Minister If he feels that my words have been hard he should understand that I do not want to be personal about this matter. We want to work with any member on either side of this House to get the truth, to work for self-determination for the people of East Timor. 
The Minister knows, and honourable members should know also, that the people of East Timor were wonderful and gallant allies of ours in the Second World War. Bear in mind that out of a population of something like 600 000, over 50 000 people died in the Second World War. Many of them died because of their actions in supporting and defending Australian troops. I was a prisoner in Timor. I was on the western end of the island. If any of our people escaped from prison camp they were handed over to the Japanese authorities by the indigenous people of West Timor. But that was not the case on the eastern end or Portuguese side of the island. It was only because of the great moral support of the East Timorese people that our troops were able to survive for several years in the mountains fighting a rearguard action and holding their position against the Japanese. It was only the East Timorese people and their great courage which enabled our troops to continue fighting and to survive for so long. So we as Australians owe them a great debt. 
I would like also to stress, because it has not been stressed before, that the whole cultural background of the East Timorese people has to be examined. They have a background that goes back 300 to 400 years during which time they were led into the Roman Catholic faith. Most Indonesians of course are Moslem and the Indonesian generals' attitude to the Christian faith has not been a very generous one. Therefore we have to understand the background of the East Timorese people. So in interrelated ways I would like all Australians both inside and outside this Parliament to work together so that there will be a fair go. We have to stop this hypocrisy; it has been going on for too long. We have to be more frank and firm in our attitude to the Indonesian generals in respect of their aggression and their determination in East Timor. We want to know the truth, particularly about these 5 young men and possibly the outcome of the position of another Australian journalist in East Timor. We do not know whether he is alive or dead. With those remarks I conclude my response to the Minister's statement. 
-Australians have heard over the last 6 months that the Fraser Government is the only possible government that can guarantee that proper procedures of government are followed. The Government has implied, by smear and innuendo, that the Whitlam Labor Government did not and could not administer this country properly. That was a lie, just as the claim that the coalition government would always follow the correct procedures was a lie. Today we are going to highlight just one example of this Government's incompetence and its inability to follow the procedures laid down by statute. 
On 28 May- last Friday- the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  announced that approval had been given to British Airways to introduce the supersonic aircraft Concorde to the Australian run. In making that announcement the Minister for Transport failed to comply with the requirements of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974-1975.  His  colleague, the then Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr MacKellar)  also failed to comply with the requirements of the Act. The failure of both Ministers to comply with those requirements, coupled with the events of the past 6 months, makes me doubt whether this Government will give environmental matters the priority they deserve. 
Let us recount some of those actions. There was, in the first instance, the abolition of the Department of the Environment. It was amalgamated with 3 other Labor Government departments to form one conglomerate department. That not only entailed the abolition of many positions in the former Department of the Environment, but also meant that the role the Federal Government was playing in environmental matters had decreased. The failure of the 
Government to appoint commissioners to the Heritage Commission, the low priority it has given to the preservation of the National Estate as evidenced by the budgetary measures announced 10 days ago, and its failure to appropriate any money at all for the National Parks and Wildlife Service in the Supply Bills last week are just a few of the other reasons why all Australians must doubt this Government's integrity on environmental issues. 
One of the other more startling actions of this Government in relation to the environment, and a matter which is indirectly related to the subject of the debate today, was its high-handed action in directing  Mr Justice  Fox to complete the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry by May this year. That direction, like the decision last week, was in complete contravention of the legislative requirements of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. In that case  Mr Justice  Fox quite rightly ignored the direction and is ensuring that the inquiry is conducted in a proper manner- a manner that is laid down by the legislation. 
It is my opinion that this Government not only does not have any commitment to the preservation and improvement of the natural and built environment but also does not even understand the most important environmental Act it has to administer. This Government does not understand the purpose of this Act, nor the procedures that have to be followed by the Minister responsible or the Acting Minister. The enactment of this legislation by the Whitlam Labor Government is the only example of formalising environmental assessment requirements into statuterequirements that most Australians want followed, not ignored. In New South Wales, Tasmania and Queensland such requirements are enforced on an administrative basis without specific legislation. The Whitlam Labor Government made those requirements mandatory. The Act defines the environment to include 'all aspects of the surroundings of man whether affecting him as an individual or in his social groupings'. The purpose of that definition was to ensure that the use of the Act was not to be confined to matters affecting the physical or natural environment only. Matters like Concorde flights to Australia are covered by that definition. Not even the Government would dispute that interpretation. The Act also requires Ministers to comply with the Act's requirements and regulations. That is what the Minister for Transport and the former Acting Minister have failed to do. 
Section 6 of the Act provided a framework for the introduction of the details of the environmental assessment procedure requirements by regulation. These regulations were ignored by both the Minister for Transport and the then Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. These regulations were gazetted and approved by both Houses of this Parliament and the Governor-General last year, and they were supported by the then Opposition. The regulations are quite explicit. Regulation 8.1 states that if any written comments are received on the draft environmental impact statement those comments must be taken into account by the proponent in the preparation of a final environmental impact statement. Regulation 8.2 provides that the final environmental impact statement, when prepared, will be circulated to interested bodies, including the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and those people who made comments on the draft. Regulation 9.1 provides that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development shall examine the final environmental impact statement on behalf of its Minister. The Minister can then, if he wishes, ask the proponent to provide any further information that he thinks necessary. 
Those are the requirements of the administrative procedures that this Government has ignored. There is no dispute over whether an environmental impact statement was called for on Concorde flights. It was called for by the Whitlam Government. There is no dispute over whether British Airways, through its agents, was prepared to comply with the requirements of that legislation It in fact submitted its draft environmental impact statement to the appropriate Minister late last year. The Minister at that stage was following the requirements of the Act and he circulated that draft in accordance with the regulations. Subsequently comments were received by the proponent, British Airways, on its initial environmental impact statement. The same comments are in the possession of the Government. British Airways then proceeded to prepare a final impact statement- a statement in which it would have attempted to present arguments against the unfavourable comments received. 
In a letter to the Minister for Transport the proponent's Australian agent said, among other things, that the final environmental impact statement would have only minor editorial changes to that submitted originally as a draft and that it was its intention to prepare an addendum to the environmental impact statement which would be its reply to the comments received as a result of the public circulation of the draft environmental impact statement earlier this year. After receiving that letter the Minister for Transport said-I use his own words- 'It seemed pointless to me to 
Postpone a decision any longer'. In point of fact, y saying that the Minister has said that it is pointless to follow the requirements of the legislation; it is pointless to take into account the views of responsible Australians who fear the environmental damage that Concorde may bring. The Minister does not even give the courtesy of waiting to see what arguments British Airways uses to refute the criticisms made on the environmental aspects of Concorde by concerned Australians. In the Minister's opinion, no final environmental impact statement is needed. 
The Minister's actions, unless otherwise proved, are in direct conflict with regulations 8. 1 , 8.2, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4 and 9.5. Those regulations, as I have already said, require the proponent to prepare and circulate a final draft environmental impact statement. That has not been done. After it has been circulated, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development must examine the final statement on behalf of its Minister. This has not been done. The department or the Minister may then seek further information from the proponents or make any comments, suggestions or recommendations concerning the conditions to which the proposed action- in this case Concorde flightsshould be subject. This has not been done. It has not been done even though I am informed that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development had many questions to ask British Airways if its final environment impact statement did not satisfactorily dispel many major doubts raised by concerned Australians such as the Society for Social Responsibility in Science. 
Each Minister is also required to ensure that these procedures, designed to . ensure that full consideration is given to both sides of the case for allowing Concorde to fly to Australia, are followed. They have not been followed. The major fault undoubtedly lies with the Minister for Transport who has deliberately and quite blatantly and unashamedly ignored these provisions. But some blame must be placed on the former Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Minister responsible for the administration of the Act. He had a responsibility to ensure that the procedures were followed. He should have insisted that the Minister for Transport carry out his duties under the Act. He did not. As a former Minister who was closely associated with the departments that now form the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, I have no doubt that the officers of that department advised the former Acting Minister to ensure that the procedures were followed. If the former Acting Minister agreed to this course of action, and knowing the Minister for Transport's attitude to the Concorde- an attitude that he has made public on many occasions in the past- I have no doubt that the former Acting Minister was intimidated into agreeing to this decision and this disregard for the laws of Australia. 
If the Minister for Transport maintains that his actions were legal and that the former Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development agreed that there was no need for these procedures to be followed, I call on the Minister for Transport to table the letter that is required under the legislation to have been sent to him by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development under regulations 11.1 and 1 1.4. This is the only thing he can do if he has followed the legislation. If he cannot he has broken the trust placed in him as a Minister of the Crown. Even if the Minister can table such a letter it will not absolve his actions. 
There is one more requirement that had to be followed if exemption from these procedures was granted in this way. The legislation is quite specific if this exemption had been granted. It requires the Government to make a public statement giving a summary of the reasons for granting the exemption. This has not been done. The Government has blatantly ignored the legislative requirements of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974-75. It has ignored the requirements of regulation 1 1.5 and at the worst it has ignored regulations 8.1, 8.2, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4 and 9.5. 
Has the Foreign Minister seen the reports of the Queensland Premier's criticism of the Australian Government's decision not to send a representative to the 'People's Assembly' of East Timor? What is the attitude of the Australian Government to the Premier's comments? 
-The Bill before the House is to amend the existing Homes Savings Grant Act to give effect to some changes in the home savings grant scheme announced by  Senator Greenwood  on 31 March 1976. This Bill does not introduce the new scheme; it only widens the eligibility for a loan and the definition of dwelling in the existing legislation. As the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr MacKellar)  said in his second reading speech: 
Under the present scheme a person who builds a home on his parents' rural property is ineligible Tor a home savings gram unless he has title to the land. 
The amendments proposed in this Bill will do away with this requirement. They provide that a person has an approved interest in the land if he has contracted to build a dwelling on a rural property so long as he has the permission of the owner of that property to occupy the dwelling on completion. That is the main purpose of this Bill in regard to the widening of eligibility for a home savings grant. 
The other major change in respect to eligibility concerns the expansion of grants under the existing home savings grant scheme to allow people who purchase a home from a State or Commonwealth housing authority also to be eligible for a grant. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, this is an anomalous situation which discriminates against people acquiring homes from the welfare housing authorities when people acquiring privately built homes with Commonwealth finance are not disqualified. This Bill also, as I said earlier, widens the definition of 'construction of dwelling house' to allow people who purchase a prefabricated home which is transported to a site to be eligible for the existing grant as well. The Bill also widens the mechanism of savings that are acceptable under the existing legislation. People will now be able to save with credit unions and reap whatever benefits the scheme can bring. 
This is the purpose of the Bill and generally the Opposition supports these changes to the existing scheme. However, I personally, as well as my Party, disagree with the whole philosophy of this Bill and the scheme to allow people to receive assistance when they are building on land to which they have no title. This opens the way for the misuse of moneys available under the home savings grant scheme. Basically we find that there is an extremely difficult legal aspect to be considered. After all, we realise that when a person builds on a rural property, after gaining the permission of the owner- the owner might be that person's parents- to occupy that dwelling, that person has no actual legal rights which will protect him in the long term. We realise that people on rural properties living under difficult circumstances want to improve the quality of their life. It is for that reason that the Opposition does not oppose this proposal although we see very delicate legal implications involved. I think that something should be built into this scheme to give those home owners some protection. I might say that the whole basis of the philosophy behind this home savings grant scheme always has been opposed by the Labor Party. We have always considered it to be a gimmick which does not in any way solve the housing problems in the long term. I will deal with some of those aspects later in this debate. 
The Labor Party is strongly committed to the principle of home ownership. Most Australians want to own their own homes. A family earning an average income can improve the income at its disposal by as much as one-third through its lifetime by buying its own home. If a family cannot buy its own home the capital gains, rentals and tax concessions deriving from home ownership go to the landlord. The Labor Party does not accept that the existing home savings grant scheme, or the proposed new scheme which I will deal with later and to which this Bill really does not relate, can help the majority of Australians to achieve home ownership. 
This Government does not recognise that housing is a key part of the Australian economy. After World War II there was a 20 year boom in the housing industry and the stock of homes owned by their occupiers steadily improved. It rose from about 50 per cent to more than 72 per cent of households. This was partly due to government policy, particularly the housing policies of the Chifley Government. It was also due to a favourable market for housing finance. 
To take an example based on South Australian figures, in 1 966 a homeseeker could buy an average home for $ 10,000 on a deposit of $2, 100 and meet the required weekly repayments of about $13.50. In 1966 the average weekly earnings after tax were around $52 and repayments amounted to just over 25 per cent of income. On this basis a homeseeker who could save a deposit would get home finance and buy a home with very little difficulty. This is in complete contrast to the situation which now exists- 20 years of progress, in which home ownership rose from 52 per cent to 72 per cent of households and in which building costs declined in relative terms, have been followed by a slump in new home ownership. Owners occupying their own homes are now a declining percentage of all families. Fewer young families can afford to buy new homes. Public housing has fallen sharply as a percentage of total new housing. 
I will tell the honourable member why. Basically the major component in buying a home is the cost of the land. Land speculators, particularly in conservative States, have been permitted year after year to speculate on land costs. No State is worse than the State of Victoria which is controlled by the Hamer Government. That is the State from which the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  comes. If one wants to examine the question of home ownership, and particularly the basic cost, the price of land, one should examine the situation in South Australia which co-operated with the Whitlam Labor Government. The South Australian Government set up a land commission and now the average cost of a block of land in that State is just under $6,000. In Melbourne, Victoria, the price of a block of land exceeds $12,000 or $13,000 and in Sydney it varies from $15,000 to $18,000. That represents what has been the role of the conservative forces. If one wants to refer to the real cost of a land and dwelling one cannot divorce the enormous increase in the cost of land. We should consider the cost of land between 1950 and 1970 when conservative governments, such as this present Government, were in power. Consider the cost of land and compare it with average weekly earnings. The cost of land actually rose 3  lA  times faster than average weekly earnings. I point out that these statistics were taken from war service home records. They are the only records of the time, particularly for New South Wales. 
Between 1970 and 1973 the price of land in the fringe areas of Sydney rose 5% times faster than average weekly earnings. Land speculation made some people wealthy, but it pushed up the cost of land and dwellings. I am not saying for one moment that a Labor government could solve the problems of housing in a short 3-year period, because it could not. There is no instant coffee solution to any urban problem. The Labor Government did build up enormous goodwill among people who benefited from welfare housing under the Commonwealth-States Housing Agreement. In the provision of cheaper housing for people earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings we made great strides. In the last year of the McMahon Government $167m was made available in this area. Over the last 2 years of the Labor Government an average yearly amount of $375m was made available. 
There was an enormous increase in the amount we made available but we solved the problem only for people earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. The biggest difficulty now is for those people earning between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. This measure will not solve their problem. Private investment in new housing for rental has fallen and demand pressures have forced rents up. Let me explain the example I gave earlier. In 1975 an average home was worth $3 1,700 and required a deposit of around $6,350, with repayments of $55 a week needed to meet normal mortgage requirements. After tax average weekly earnings in 1975 were around $123, and a person on average weekly earnings buying an average home was required to meet repayment amounting to 45 per cent of income. It is obvious that no lending institution would advance funds to a home seeker who had to devote such a high proportion of his income to repayments. What it meant was that houses were not built, they were not sold and jobs in the housing industry began declining. In this situation money piles up in the banks as people try to save to hedge against the risks of unemployment. As I have already pointed out, the main obstacle facing the home seeker today is not building up of enough savings for a deposit. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Petrie have been interjecting continually. They will cease interjecting. 
-Today the deposit is not the major problem. Today, with a deposit, even an income earner getting average weekly earnings could not meet the repayments required. I said that the difficult area involved that group of people earning between 95 and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings- in other words, people earning about $200 a week. It does not matter what government is in power. Let me explain something to honourable members who say they are concerned about social problems. Under the McMahon Government money was made available under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement at the long term bond rate, but under the Labor Government formula the interest was reduced to 4 per cent. In other words, the long term bond rate being approximately 10 per cent, we paid a subsidy of 6 per cent to the 2 major States of Victoria and New South Wales, which at that time had conservative governments. Because of pressure from the Treasury a proposal is to be put forward at the next Premiers Conference to return to the long term bond rate. That will mean that people renting housing commission homes will have to pay much higher rent. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Are all forms of overseas aid, apart from aid to Papua New Guinea, to decline in real terms in the coming financial year? Will it be about 0.5 per cent of the gross national product? Is the Minister aware that it would be the lowest level of Australian aid since 1963-64? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact, as reported in the  Canberra Times  on 26 March 1976, that the Government is withholding approval which has been sought by the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation for major contracts to proceed, when those contracts form pan of the approved program for 1975-76 and when the State representatives on the Ministerial Council have given their approval. 
If so, will he explain the basis on which the Government is dishonouring the financial agreement which was entered into by the caretaker Prime Minister and the Premiers of Victoria and New South Wales. 
Did the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs state on 17 March 1976 that the Government has honoured all its commitments to provide financial assistance for programs agreed to with the States for the 1975-76 financial year, and that this applies to Albury-Wodonga. 
If so, what is the reason for making this statement when the Government has failed to approve contracts for works agreed to with the State Governments of New South Wales and Victoria, and included in the 1975-76 program which was approved by the caretaker Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the total amount of financial assistance made available to Tasmania under clause 13 of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Tasmania for Urban Expansion and Redevelopment (Urban Land Council)- 1975-76', signed by the Prime Minister and the Tasmanian Premier, be made available to that State in accordance with the Agreement. 
If not, will he state what amount will be made available, and explain why the total amount will not be made available. 
In what way is that Agreement different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for any changes. 
On what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 1975. 
What were these programs, and what was the total financial assistance to the programs approved on each of those dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the total amount of financial assistance made available to Tasmania under clause 13 of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Tasmania for Sewerage- 1975-76', signed by the Prime Minister and the Tasmanian Premier, be made available to that State in accordance with the Agreement. 
If not, will he state what amount will be made available, and explain why the total amount will not be made available. 
In what way is this Agreement different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for any changes. 
On what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 1975. 
What were these programs, and what was the total financial assistance to the programs approved on each of those dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the total amount of financial assistance made available to Tasmania under clause 13 of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Tasmania for the National Estate- 1975-76', signed by the Prime Minister and the Tasmanian Premier, be made available to that State in accordance with the Agreement. 
If not, will he state what amount will be made available, and explain why the total amount will not be made available. 
In what way is this Agreement different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for any changes. 
On what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 1975. 
What were these programs, and what was the total financial assistance to the programs approved on each of those dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the total amount of financial assistance made available to Queensland under clause 13 of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Queensland for Sewerage- 1975-76', signed by the Prime Minister and the Queensland Premier, be made available to that State in accordance with the Agreement. 
If not, will he state what amount will be made available, and explain why the total amount will not be made available. 
In what way is this Agreement different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for any changes. 
On what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 1975. 
What were these programs and what was the total financial assistance to the programs approved on each of those dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the total amount of financial assistance made available to Queensland under clause 13 of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Queensland for the National Estate- 1 975-76 ', signed by the Prime Minister and the Queensland Premier, be made available to that State in accordance with the Agreement. 
If not, will he state what amount will be made available, and explain why the total amount will not be made available. 
In what way is this Agreement different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for any changes. 
On what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 1975. 
What were these programs, and what was the total financial assistance to the programs approved on each of those dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the total amount of financial assistance made available to Queensland under clause 13 of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Queensland for Flood Mitigation- 1975-76', signed by the Prime Minister and the Queensland Premier, be made available to that State in accordance with the Agreement. 
If not, will he state what amount will be made available, and explain why the total amount will not be made available. 
In what way is this Agreement different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for any changes. 
On what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since I July 1975. 
What were these programs, and what was the total financial assistance to the programs approved on each of those dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the total amount of financial assistance made available to Queensland under clause 13 of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Queensland for Area Improvement- 1975-76', signed by the Prime Minister and the Queensland Premier, be made available to that State in accordance with the Agreement. 
If not, will he state what amount will be made available, and explain why the total amount will not be made available. 
In what way is this Agreement different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for any changes. 
On what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 1975. 
What were these programs, and what was the total financial assistance to the programs approved on each of those dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the total amount of financial assistance set aside in the 1 975-76 Budget for allocation to New South Wales for mine waste pollution control  works  at Captains Flat be made available to that State in 1975-76. 
If not, will he state what amount will be made available, and explain why the total amount will not be made available. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Western Australia for Urban and Regional Development 1975-76', proposed by the Labor Government and agreed to in principle by the Western Australian Government, been signed. 
If not, have separate agreements covering the various categories of urban and regional development been signed to replace the proposed ' Umbrella Agreement '. 
If the proposed Agreement referred to in part (1) has been signed, has it been altered in any way. 
If so, what was the nature of these alterations, what were the reasons for these changes, and when will it be tabled. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the total amounts of financial assistance made available to Victoria under clause 6 of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Victoria for Urban and Regional Development', signed by the Prime Minister and the Premier of Victoria on 5 January 1976, be made available to that State in accordance with the Agreement. 
If not, will he state what amounts will be made available by the categories referred to in clause 6, and explain why these total amounts will not be made available. 
In what way is this Agreement different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for the changes. 
On what dates have Ministerial consultations taken place in accordance with clause 28 of the Agreement since the Agreement was signed, and who were the Ministers present. 
5 ) On what dates ha ve officer consultations taken place in accordance with clause 29 of the Agreement since the Agreement was signed, and which Australian and State Departments were represented. 
On what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 197S. 
7 ) What were these programs, by category, and what was the total financial assistance to the programs approved, by category, on each of those dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What were the total amounts of financial assistance, by category, made available to South Australia by notice issued by the Labor Government under clause 5 (2) of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to South Australia for Urban and Regional Development*. 
Is the total amount of financial assistance made available to South Australia by that notice still available. 
If not, will he state what amounts will be made available, by category, and explain why the total amounts specified in the notice will not be made available. 
Have any subsequent notices been issued to South Australia varying the original notice. 
5 ) If so, did South Australia agree to this variation. 
On what dates have Ministerial consultations occurred in accordance with clause 30 of the Agreement since the Agreement was signed, who were the Ministers present, and what was the purpose of each meeting. 
On what dates have officer consultations occurred in accordance with clause 3 1 of the Agreement, since the agreement was signed, which Australian and State Departments were represented, and what was the purpose of each meeting. 
At what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 1975. 
What were these programs, by category, and what was the total value of the programs approved, by category, on each of those dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the total amounts of financial assistance, by category, made available to New South Wales by notice issued by the Government under clause 5(2) of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to New South Wales for Urban and Regional Development '. 
Is the total amount of financial assistance made available to New South Wales by that notice still available. 
If not, will he state what amounts will be made available, by category, and explain why the total amounts specified in the notices will not be made available. 
Have any subsequent notices been issued to New South Wales varying the original notice. 
5 ) If so, did New South Wales agree to this variation. 
In what way are the amounts referred to in part ( 1 ) different to the amounts New South Wales was told it would receive, by the Prime Minister, in August 197S. 
Will he explain why the amounts promised by the former Government in August I97S will not be made available. 
In what way is the Agreement referred to in part ( 1 ) different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for the changes. 
On what dates have Ministerial consultations occurred in accordance with clause 29 of the Agreement since the Agreement was signed, who were the Ministers present, and what was the purpose of each meeting. 
10) On what dates have officer consultations occurred in accordance with clause 30 of the Agreement since the Agreement was signed, which Australian and State Departments were represented, and what was the purpose of each meeting. 
At what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 1975. 
What were these programs, by category, and what was the total value of the programs approved, by category, on each of those dates. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that in Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech it is estimated that the likely change in the consumer price index for the year 1976-77 is of the order of 12 per cent? Does this indicate that the Government's Budget will bring inflation only marginally under control in 1 976-77? Does it suggest that the sacrifices by a very wide section of the Australian people will be in vain? 
-The Australian Heritage Commission was established by a Labor Government after the receipt of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate which was chaired by  Mr Justice  Hope. The establishment of this Commission was one of the more important recommendations contained in that historic report. The central theme of the report was quite explicit. It was set out in this brief extract: 
The Australian Government- 
That is, the Labor Government- has inherited a national estate which has been down-graded, disregarded and neglected. All previous priorities accepted at various levels of government and authority have been directed by a concept that uncontrollable development, economic growth and progress and the encouragement of private as against public interest in land use, use of waters and indeed every part of the national estate was paramount. 
That theme embarrassed members of the then Opposition. It now embarrasses the current Government. It highlighted their 23 years of neglect. 
It now highlights their attitude to both the Australian Heritage Commission and the preservation of the National Estate. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government was a growth for growth's sake government. In other words, it was a government of a bulldozer mentality. After last night, it appears that things have not changed very much. 
The amendments now proposed to the Australian Heritage Commission Act, an Act introduced by the Labor Government with the apparent support of honourable members opposite, to prevent the desecration of our heritage and to overcome those years of neglect are destined to make that statement come true again. The Australian Heritage Commission, the establishment of which was proposed and enacted by the Labor Government, was to be the tool to achieve the fine aim of giving substance to the concept of the National Estate- a fine concept which was identified by the Australian Labor Party and which was enshrined by  Mr Justice  Hope and his colleagues in their fine report. The aims enshrined in the Labor legislation and the report were: 
Set up an Australian Heritage Commission on a broad and representative basis- a basis which ensured that all interests, interests of the various States and Territories and the public and private sectors as well as the interests of concerned Australians- to advise the Government and the Parliament on the condition of the National Estate and how it should be protected. 
Establish and maintain a register of the things that make up the National Estate. 
Require that the Australian Government departments and agencies and those acting on its behalf respect the National Estate and do all they can to preserve it. 
Finally, in this broad statement of aims, to work in cooperation with the States to ensure that complementary legislation and actions were implemented on behalf of the future generations in Australia. 
Against this broad statement of the aims enshrined in the Labor Government's legislation I shall set out again briefly the history of the legislation, as it is obvious that the Fraser Government has forgotten the good principles and philosophies it espoused when it was in Opposition last year. 
In April 1973, the Labor Government set up a committee of inquiry under  Mr Justice  Hope. This committee was given the task of investigating and reporting to the Government on the nature and condition of the National Estate and the ways in which all bodies in Australia, both government and non-government, could work together to preserve and enhance it. I played a part in devising and publicising the concept of the National Estate when I was the Labor spokesman on the environment and urban and regional affairs between the years 1969 and 1972. During that time, in both the Parliament and the countryside I expressed our wish to preserve for posterity those things that were created by man and nature and that are unique and beautiful. 
In those years we put particular emphasis on identifying the National Estate and promoting it as a key pan of the Labor Party's policy. In our Party's policy speech in December 1972 we promised that a Labor government would enhance and preserve the National Estate. As a government we acted swiftly to discharge the mandate given to us to identify, conserve and preserve the National Estate. Our first action was to set up the Hope Committee. This Committee was asked to view the National Estate as comprising such things as national parks, nature reserves, historic buildings and structure of architectural merit, areas of special scientific interest, the coastline, inland waters, our wetlands and urban parks. The Labor Government sought from the Committee for the first time in Australian history an inventory of our natural and man-made heritage. In accounting terms, this Committee set out the great assets of our heritage and balanced them against the liabilities that have debased their value. As well as this inventory, the Committee reported on the present condition of the items listed and made recommendations as to how they might be protected and enhanced. In itself, the Committee's report could be said to form the basis of the register that the Heritage Commission was asked to prepare under the legislation currently being amended. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has stated publicly as has the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  who is now sitting at the table, that no money will be spent by this Government until the register to be established by the Commission is well advanced. I ask the Minister sitting at the table: Has he any idea at all of the amount of work in establishing a national register? Has he had dialogue or discussion with those agencies particularly those in Britain that have set out to compile a national register? Has he made any detailed investigation? It takes years to compile a national- register and even when one is compiled that is only the first round. There is always the second round. It takes a good many people to compile a national register and it takes a long time. 
The forces which sit on the treasury bench today have proved by their failure to preserve the National Estate that they cannot be trusted. 
They have decided that no money will be spent on the National Estate until this yet to be established register is well on its way. In adopting this attitude they have ignored 2 things. They have ignored the fact that an informal register is already in existence in the report of the Hope Committee. I commend the report to all honourable members on the Government side. It is well worth reading. They should be aware that the Hope Committee dealt with this matter in great depth. Arising out of that inquiry the Hope Committee made its first recommendation to the Government in that report. Registers have already been compiled by the National Trust, by conservation groups and by historical societies. There is information on this matter within the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. There is an enormous list of things that need to be done now. 
We on the Opposition side do not want this phoney deal which says that we are not going to spend any money until such time as a national register is under way. We know why a smokescreen has been created. I know there are men of goodwill on the Government side of the House. Does the Minister not recall that I was a Minister in the Labor Government? Does he not realise that when the squeeze comes our friends in Treasury say that if there is one place in which they can really use the knife it is environment and urban and regional development? In fact, on one occasion when Labor was in government, they made an impact on urban proposals and also on the National Estate but fortunately in the second round in Cabinet I did them like a dinner. At least I did not stop fighting. When the Treasury bureaucrats cut our programs back I kept on fighting. Unfortunately the bureaucracy of the Fraser Government is controlled by Treasury and there is no appeal. There is no justice when it comes to Treasury decisions unless of course the Prime Minister Fraser has a pet subject when he then says: 'Look, I will have that. ' Unless you can get him on side you have got Buckley's chance of defeating Treasury. 

 - Mr Minister, I well know that you inherited the finest group of people in the Australian bureaucracy. When we were in office we created a new department of urban and regional development. We drew people from all over the world, from the private sector, from the public sector, from universities, from planning authorities and from State departments. They were outstanding Public Servants. What has happened? The fact is that because of the fear of the economic power of your Department, because they were an alternative economic body in your Department, Treasury has made your Department null and void. It has conspired to deprive you of the opportunity to sit on any economic committee of Cabinet and to have any real say in the economic policy and decision making processes of this nation. Your Department, as it was formed by me as the then responsible Minister, had a say in the whole spectrum of the economy and dealt in a more detailed and humane way with aspects of the economy because the human problems that are involved are in urban affairs. 
For 23 years the conservative governments of this nation excluded the human and social problems that built up in the urban community and a crisis situation occurred in Sydney and Melbourne. It was only when the Whitlam Labor Government came into office in 1972 that we were able to commence to do something about the problems, to try to rectify many problems and those fine young public servants or, as I call them, young bureaucrats came in to help us change the face of our urban community. They are being frustrated now. I know they are being frustrated because the Treasury bureaucracy is laying down the dictum. Might I say- I can say it now because it is already a matter of public discussionthat probably one of the finest economic minds that ever joined the Australian Public Service,  Dr Michael  Keating, in fact helped to break that Treasury bureaucracy budget strategy in 1974- that bureaucracy which would have created unemployment of vast proportion even at the time when Labor was in office. He has now returned to the OECD in Paris. There is no real right of alternative economic policy thought in the Australian bureaucracy and you have to toe the line of Treasury bureaucracy- not the Treasurer but the Treasury bureaucracy. 
These matters are all interconnected. As it is said, everything is connected to everything else. As in the environment, as in urban affairs and as with our national heritage, everything is connected to everything else. Everything is interrelated. We are now talking about this important body, the Heritage Commission. For so long it was disregarded by these people sitting opposite. It was only we on this side who started to open up this new world. Those who sit opposite also ignored the fact that, in the interim period when no finance is to be made available, many parts of our heritage could be lost forever. This Government is opting out of its responsibilities to the nation and to our future generations. All political parties not only supported this legislation when it was introduced but also supported the actions of the Labor Government in appropriating $ 17.2m in the last 3 years to be used for the preservation and enhancement of the National Estate. 
When Labor was in office the then Opposition spokesman on environment, the current Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  both publicly stated in the debate last year on the Heritage Commission that it was necessary to appropriate funds before a formal register was completed to preserve those immediately threatened areas of our national estate. This was referred to as crisis financing and was applauded by the then Opposition spokesman who today sit on the Government side. We could not wait for the register to be completed like this Government is now doing. It this a smokescreen? That is what I want to ask honourable members opposite. Even before the Hope report was completed we had appropriated in our first Budget $2m for the preservation of areas of the National Estate that would otherwise have been lost forever. If that type of funding had not been available to us as a government, many fine things would have been lost to all Australians. I ask honourable members opposite to recall Blackburn Lakes in Victoria, Hallett Cove in South Australia, the Palace Hotel in Perth, to name just a few. 
The honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  interjects. The Commonwealth Bank owned the Palace Hotel in Perth. Does he think that the Government of the day or the bureaucracy of the day, prior to the Labor Party taking office and making the decisions that it did, would have protected the Palace Hotel from destruction by the Commonwealth Bank even though they had the power to do so? It was not until we came to government that action was taken to protect the Palace Hotel. Of course, the pressure will still be on back benchers opposite to ensure that that commitment is met, because all we have done to date is buy the internal fittings of the Palace Hotel, which in fact are in the custody of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
The Palace Hotel premises are still owned by the Commonwealth Bank, and the Commonwealth Bank still has a grand design to develop that area in the name of so-called progress by replacing with glass and concrete high-rise office buildings that lovely old hotel which has a special gentleness and an aura we will never be able to create again. 
There are other buildings about which we should be doing something now. One is the Queen Victoria building in Sydney. Do honourable members think that any city council can protect, preserve and restore a building such as the Queen Victoria building without assistance from the national Government? There has been a great deal of the bulldozer development mentality in Sydney. The protection and maintenance of the Queen Victoria building, the Sydney Town Hall and St Andrews Cathedral, which is a unique area in a city which has a policy of growth for growth's sake, can be done only with the cooperation of the national Government. It is too costly to be restored by a city council. It can be done only by co-operation between the Australian Government, the State Government and local government, as well as with the pressure and support of community organisations. That is the only way in which it can be done. 
I mention also to the House and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  that a building such as the Elizabeth Farm Cottage should be preserved. For the information of honourable members, Elizabeth Farm Cottage, the oldest residence in Australia, is situated in the electorate of Parramatta. It was situated in my electorate before the redistribution of 1969. That building was erected in 1793, 5 years after Governor Phillip arrived in this land. Until the Labor Party came to office not one penny of Australian Government funds was ever made available to try to restore and rehabilitate Elizabeth Farm Cottage. I made representations time and time again to the governments of the day, and they refused me on each occasion. The only man who did give me some consideration and understanding was a former Minister for Tourism, now a back bencher, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  But how long can these things wait? The honourable member for Parramatta can tell honourable members that Elizabeth Farm Cottage is in awful disrepair and we could lose if for ever unless rehabilitation work commences soon. 
Similarly, it is possible that with the mentality of the present Government some of the scarce tropical rain forests and mangrove swamps in north Queensland could be lost for ever. We know of the bulldozer mentality which exists in Queensland at present and which espouses the policy of growth for growth's sake. The Australian Government is refusing to appropriate funds for this necessary form of preservation in a time of crisis. It is refusing to do those things which, a mere 12 months ago, it applauded the Labor Government for doing. While the Hope Committee was still conducting its inquiry the Labor Government took positive measures in accordance with its mandate- a mandate best exemplified by the statement that the Australian 
Government should see itself as the curator and not the liquidator of our national heritage. We embarked on a series of what were new policiespolicies which are now being dismantled and destroyed by this Government, policies which had an important impact on the National Estate. 
The Budget which was introduced into the House yesterday is a major step towards the destruction of those programs. Let me cite those programs to the Minister at the table, who in fact is the Minister responsible for them. The Minister needs a bit of a lecture, and I wish to goodness his young bureaucrats would educate their Minister a little better as to bis responsibilities. The programs include the development of growth centres, such as Albury-Wodonga and BathurstOrange, and the setting up of land commissions. Do honourable members know that it was the responsibility of the land commissions to protect and to buy areas such as the escarpment of the Blue Mountains and many other places of natural beauty such as the foreshores of the Port Phillip Bay peninsula and many other areas? Our programs were interconnected with our sewerage programs which have been almost destroyed by a reduction in funds from $115m to $50m. Area improvement programs which have assisted local governments were also interconnected with the National Estate. Those programs have been completely destroyed. We initiated the setting up of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and the National Parks and Wildlife Service, apart from ensuring that conservation organisations and groups received financial assistance to obtain technical advice on controversial issues of general community interest. What of the Glebe estate which we acquired and which we were rehabilitating. The Glebe estate contained a townscape extending over a period of 100 years. What is happening? The fact is that since 1 January this year not one penny has been spent on rehabilitation of that estate. A deputation will be meeting with the Minister tomorrow because since 13 December the project has been neglected and work has not been carried out. All these things are interconnected. 
Recently the Minister had a look at the Woolloomooloo program, another related part of the Australian Heritage Commission. That area forms part of the history of Sydney and part of the history of Australia. That area was acquired under the Labor Administration for the purpose of being protected, preserved and enhanced, but the project has been sabotaged by this Government. The programs to which I referred earlier also include endeavours to ensure that environment protection forms the key part of the decision-making process of government. That was done by the enactment of the environment protection legislation, and the appointment of permanent heads of departments that had special environmental significance to the Interim Committee on the National Estate, apart from conditions embodied in the legislation currently being amended. I would not be surprised to see legislation introduced into this Parliament shortly to amend the environment protection legislation. If that occurs, it will be just another example of the Government's mentality. 
The Labor Government also started a wide range of programs for the rational management of Australian water and biological resources. All of these programs, many of which have been dismantled by the Fraser Government, involved land use strategies and all had a crucial bearing on the National Estate. The Labor Government made a definite commitment and with real determination to protect our heritage. The Fraser Government has failed to meet this commitment. 
I have already said that the legislation now being amended received the full support of the Liberal and Country parties at the time that the Labor Government proposed it. But where is the financial support, the muscle, to support this legislation? The Government must increase that financial commitment. It must meet its commitment now. The Government has increased the financial commitment to the arts. Why cannot the Government if not increase at least make the necessary financial commitment to the National Estate similar to that made to the Arts Council. A commitment has been made to the arts and we know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wants to out do Prime Minister Whitlam's contribution to the arts. 
The Australian Heritage Commission was an example of co-operation and accommodation between the major political parties at the federal level and also was the result of continuous spontaneous co-operation and consultation with the States, the private sector and groups over a very wide area. The people were consulted and drawn from the grass roots. It is their environment and that is why we wanted to work together- the Australian and State governments, local government, the private sector, the people's sector, people's organisations and the people themselves. 
The legislation that was enshrined as the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1975 was an example of open government and participation in the decision making process on a level unprecedented in Australian history. I want to give credit to David Yencken, the present chairman of the Heritage Commission. David Yencken was a member of the Hope Committee inquiry into the National Estate. He has great tenacity and a great commitment and involvement. I am sure that he will do a fine job as Chairman. We do not oppose the Bill but we will be opposing certain amendments when we get into the Committee stage- in particular clauses 4 and 6 relating to sections 7 and 12 of the principal Act. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the individual staff ceiling for each Australian Government Department and Authority in existence as at 30 October in each of the years 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1975, and as at 29 February 1976. 
What was the actual number of people employed by each of those Departments and Authorities on the same dates. 
What is the estimated individual establishments for the Departments and Authorities currently in existence as at 30 June 1976. 
What is the difference between this estimate and the staff ceilings recently set by him. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the (a) establishment and (b) staff ceiling of the Department of Urban and Regional Development as at 30 October in each of the years 1973, 1974 and 1975. 
What effect did changes in Administrative Arrangements Orders prior to December 1 975 have on the establishment and staff ceilings of that Department. 
What number of positions gained by the Department in the latter half of 1975 was the result of transfers of functions to that Department from other than existing Departments or the result of the abolition of certain statutory authorities. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the total amount of financial assistance made available to New South Wales and Victoria under clause 10 of the 'Agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to New South Wales and Victoria for Urban Expansion and Redevelopment (Albury-Wodonga)- 1975-76', signed by the Prime Minister and the two State Premiers, be made available to the States in accordance with the Agreement 
If not, will he state what amount will be made available, and explain why the total amount will not be made available. 
In what way is this Agreement different to that proposed by the Labor Government, and what were the reasons for any changes. 
On what dates has the Ministerial Council met since 1 July 1975, and who were the Ministers present 
On what dates have officer consultations taken place since 1 July 1975, and which Australian and State Departments were represented. 
On what dates have programs received approval under this Agreement since 1 July 1975. 
What were these programs, and what was the total financial assistance to the programs approved on each of those dates. 
-In the Budget Speech the Treasurer made reference to local government receiving substantially more funds in this financial year. The Treasurer would be aware that is a misleading statement. I draw his attention to page 123 of Budget Paper No. 7. Is the Treasurer aware that the Budget Papers reveal that local government will receive substantially less than it did last year in both real and cash terms? Does the Treasurer agree that local government will be forced substantially to increase its rates and charges to overcome its pressing financial problems? 
-The Opposition opposes clause 4 of the Bill which amends section 7 of the Heritage Commission Act by removing the specific right of the Commission to advise the Minister on expenditure proposals for the preservation of the National Estate in areas controlled by the Australian Government, as well as removing the specific power given to the Commission, on recommendations of the Hope Committee and the Interim Committee on the National Estate, to recommend grants of financial or other assistance by the Australian Government to the States and other bodies for the purpose of preserving and enhancing our national heritage. 
While I realise that a valid argument could be made for the deletion of the specific part of the original section of the Act to which this clause relates, on the ground that the Commission could still make recommendations in regard to the types and amount of expenditure, it is not acceptable to the Labor Party. The principal Act embodied all the main recommendations of the Hope Committee. That Committee and the Interim Committee were quite definite about that power being with the Commission. We also believe that this power should be clearly set out in the legislation. We believe this is in the cause of open government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in his second reading speech, indicated the attitude of the Government when he said: 
The conservation and improvement of the National Estate does not depend solely or even principally on the expenditure of vast sums of money. It is intended to remove the specific reference in the Act for the Commission to advise on expenditure and grants of financial assistance. 
I ask: Why? It is not good enough for the Government to claim that in respect of future appropriations for National Estate purposes the Government will seek the advice of the Commission. It appears to me and to all concerned Australians that the proposal to remove these powers, when looked at in conjunction with the current Budget in which no funds were made available for new National Estate projects, would indicate that the Government is opting out of its commitment to the National Estate. 
In the debate on the original Bill last year, the main spokesman for the Liberal-Country Party in the Senate, the newly appointed Minister for Repatriation,  Senator Durack,  said: 
There is no question that although all the expert advice in the world may be available in identifying these places and with all the goodwill in the world regarding their preservation, very little in this regard can be done effectively without the necessary finance. 

 Senator Durack, the present Minister for Repatriation, when in Opposition, said that it is not much good talking about good-will; we really need finance to put muscle into these proposals. He went on to say: 
One of the most important matters in regard to the preservation and presentation of the National Estate will be the provision of finance and that is an area where the States and 
State governments have not been able to make the necessary provisions and it is hoped that with the involvement of the Commonwealth Government in this area there will be a much more ready flow of financial assistance. 
The last thing I want to say concerns the Liberal and National Country Parties' own conservation policy. The policy is quite explicit: 
The Liberal and National Country Party will take action to preserve the National Estate. The Liberal and National Country Parry would provide funds to the States to assist in the preservation of areas and buildings of historical, social, cultural, ecological and environmental significance. 
I set out all those reasons, basically so that Australian Federal Governments, of any political colour, can be seen to administer legislation which positively protects our heritage. If one reads the recommendations of the Hope Committee report, it will be seen that it was one of the outstanding committees of inquiry during the time of the Whitlam Labor Government. It went to great lengths to say that there should be financial support from the Australian Government for the protection of Australia's heritage. This body, the Commission, should be able to make recommendations about amounts of financial assistance so that something can be done about our National Estate. I am not trying to say that this Parliament, this Government or this Federal Treasury should be the Pandora's box for solving all the problems of the National Estate. I am saying there has to be financial muscle given to the Commission to make sure its recommendations are carried out. We know that in the long term we need leadership from the Australian Government to try to protect our National Estate. For too long the bulldozer mentality prevailed in this country. Generally a great deal of our National Estate was destroyed during those growth period years from 1950 to 1970 when governments and private enterprise believed in growth for growth's sake. During that period many of our beautiful natural sandstone buildings in Sydney were destroyed. Now the threat is coming to Melbourne where the bluestone buildings are being destroyed. 
The original section 7 of the principal Act was worded in a way which indicated a great deal of thought had gone into it from an impartial committee. That committee worked very hard with the Government draftsman to draft that Act. I believe that this Government is callously and quite deliberately, removing from the Commission the power to make recommendations of amounts that should be spent on the Heritage Commission so that there is no real embarrassment. I would like to quote the statement made by the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  when he was then spokesman for the environment. What did the honourable member for Gwydir, now the Minister for Health, say? He said: 
It is in times of prosperity, full employment and social security that a population is likely to concern itself with the environment and the National Estate. It is in times of economic disaster and social suffering that a  population is more  likely to concern itself with its own social survival and to ignore the environment and the preservation of the National Estate. 
I am saying quite clearly that the Treasury, which in fact is the bureaucracy running the Government, has been able to influence the Government to take away from the Commission the power to make recommendations on expenditure. The Government does not want to be embarrassed by such recommendations. It wants to spend the money it has on other programs and not on the National Estate. The Minister for Health, when he was the spokesman on the environment, went on to say: 
One hopes that there will be a new era in which development at all costs, jobs at all costs and profits at all costs will give way to more sensitive public determination to balance growth, jobs, profits and standards of living against the things of prosperity and the quality of life. 
Those are fine words. Now that he is a Minister he has not come into the debate to support the fine words he used when he was in Opposition. As the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development knows, the Government has cut back its expenditure on the National Estate. This year there will be no new expenditure programs concerned with our national heritage. 
-First of all, I think it is important to understand that the moneys recommended for the National Estate during the 3 years of Australian Labor Party Government were not dreams of mine as Minister for Urban and Regional Development; they were recommended by the Hope Committee of Inquiry. Over a 3-year period $ 17.2m was made available. That decision was made on a sound basis, on information that money was needed to overcome the backlog of problems that had occurred over long years of neglect. Honourable members should read what I quoted last night. I will not read it into  Hansard  again. The Hope Committee found that the National Estate had been downgraded and neglected. The Committee was made up of impartial people. They recommended the $ 1 7.2m. 
I draw attention to section 7 of the principal Act which says: 
The functions of the Commission are- 
to furnish advice to the Minister, either of its own motion or upon request made to it by the Minister, on matters relating to the national estate, including advice relating to - 
action to conserve, improve and present the national estate; 
expenditure by Australia for the conservation, improvement and presentation of the national estate; and 
the grant of financial or other assistance by Australia to the States, local governing bodies and other organizations or persons for the conservation, improvement or presentation of the national estate; 
It might be said- I am not saying it- that I strayed a wee bit in my first 10-rninute speech but I assure you,  Mr Chairman,  that I intend to stick precisely to the clause and anything I say now will be relevant to it. I am talking about the powers of the Commission to recommend and to do the things required of that body. I said that the powers were given on the recommendation of the inquiry which preceded the Heritage Commission. Many members of the inquiry are now commissioners of the Heritage Commission. They made available the $ 17.2m on their very long shopping list to overcome the neglect which had taken place over the years. The Hope Committee said in its report: 
The Australian Government- 
That is, of course, the Labor Governmenthas inherited a national estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. All previous priorities accepted at various levels of government and authority have been directed by a concept that uncontrollable development, economic growth and progress and the encouragement of private as against public interest in land use, use of waters and indeed every part of the national estate was paramount. 
In other words, it was saying that the conservative forces of government had for years completely neglected the National Estate. I am saying that now as, in a restricted Budget due to inflation and other matters, it is basically wrong to make available $ 1.35m at this stage. I am sure that the commissioners would recommend a great deal more money. I suggest that the Minister reads the Hope Committee report. I want to point out the importance of the powers of the Commission, as set out in section 7 of the principal Act. The Labor Party stands firm that the principles set out in section 7 should remain in the Act. 
-The Opposition is not opposed to the amendment just moved by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, but we intend to oppose the amending clause as a whole. In other words, we stand by section 12 of the principal Act. I seek your guidance,  Mr Chairman.  Should I make my remarks now? 
I wish these young bureaucrats would brief the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  a little better on the development of and the necessity for our creating an Australian Heritage Commission with approximately 18 commissioners. We examined the situation in France, Great Britain, other parts of Europe and the United States of America. In fact, a similar body in Great Britain has 18 members. But the one that influenced us the most was that in the United States. In the U.S. there was a committee of, I think, 19 members. This committee had representatives not only of a majority of the private sector. It also was composed of permanent heads of government departments. It was necessary to bring in the government because it owned so much of the National Estate. 
How many honourable members have seen the beautiful old post offices in country towns and other places around Australia? The magnificent general post office at Shepparton is one that comes to mind. The Postmaster-General's Department, as it was then known, destroyed it in the name of progress. I wish the Minister would read the Hope Committee report which contains photographs of these buildings so that he can see in a simple form the stupidity, if I can use that word, and the brutality of the use of foolish architecture which was used by the old Department of Works which is now the Department of Construction. This architecture has destroyed many fine old buildings. The Department has put up red texture brick monstrosities next to some of our still lovely old sandstone buildings. As I have mentioned, there are photographs of some of these buildings in the Hope Committee report. 
It is for that reason that we are saying that permanent heads of departments should be appointed to the Commission so as to bring the influence of the Australian Government into the thinking process. I know that the Minister has made great strides in politics because, for instance, he has got the eye of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  because he is a boy from Tasmania and because of the need to have all States represented in the Ministry. Consequently he came into the Cabinet. In fairness to the Minister I hear good reports that he has an understanding of his responsibility. But I ask the Minister not to start telling old politicians who have been in this game for a long time how to suck eggs. When the Minister gets to know the bureaucracy he will find that things are being destroyed or created within his own area for which he is supposed to be responsible. Bureaucrats make decisions. This is particularly so in the case of the Army to which, of course, the Minister belonged. Their decisions destroyed many beautiful parts of our National Estate. The National Estate is not only concerned with bricks and mortar but also with nature reserves. 
Even though the Commissioners are all good people and I have been advised by people who should know their backgrounds and their disciplines, I understand that most of the Commissioners have disciplines in the man-made environment and not so much in the natural environment. I believe our National Estate would be protected more with the establishment of a bigger commission which included representatives of the Australian Government. 
We are not breaking new ground. If the Minister cares to look at the position he will see that the blueprint for the Commission was based on the body that was established to preserve the heritage of the United States. As the Minister well knows, his Government when in Opposition, moved an amendment not only that all States should be represented on the Commission but also that all disciplines should be represented. For that reason I ask the Minister to reconsider retaining section 12 of the principal Act as it stands and not to proceed with his amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. He would be aware that 40 per cent of unemployed are aged 20 years or less while only 12 per cent of the work force is in that age category. Is he aware that in metropolitan areas an average of 35 people are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for every job vacancy whereas in non-metropolitan areas the average is 600 to 1? Will the Minister give details of action the Government has taken to alleviate unemployment in this particular age group? Do these young people come into the group labelled by some Government members and their supporters as 'dole bludgers*? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. In Budget Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech the Treasurer forecast a rate of growth in the money supply of 10 to 12 per cent during 1976-77. He claimed that this growth will result mainly from domestic factors as he anticipates imports growing slightly faster than exports, leading to a position of approximate balance in our external balance of payments. Will this anticipated money growth occur if tax concessions to foreign based mining companies result in a large inflow of foreign equity capital? What effect would this unplanned rise in domestic liquidity have on inflation during 1976-77? 
-The Loan Bill (No. 3) is part of the Government's overall Budget strategy. I want to concentrate my comments on the money allocated to State housing. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his second reading speech said: 
The current estimate of this Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit is $ 1,435m. This is after allowing for the charging to Loan Fund of expenditures totalling $827m on capital grants to the States and payments to the States for housing. 
He also stated that there would be an overall Budget deficit for 1976-77 of $2,608m. My comments on housing for the States will be directed particularly to the cutbacks of money for urban and regional development. Let us look at the whole history of moneys paid by the Australian Government to the States for welfare housing. The Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement was instituted by the Chifley Labor Government in 1947. The Loan Council in each year from 1945-46 to 1970-71 agreed to a total works and housing program for each State from which each State nominated the amount it would receive as advances from the Commonwealth Government under successive Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements. These advances were repayable over 53 years, and over most of the period they were provided at concessional rates of interest. 
The 1945 Agreement included provision for the Commonwealth Government to contribute three-fifths of any loss incurred in a financial year by the States in connection with the administration of their housing projects. Queensland is the only State at present receiving such contributions. In 1971-72 and 1972-73 there were no specific advances for housing, the States meeting these expenditures from within their ordinary Loan Council borrowing programs in the same way as they met other expenditures. In lieu of the former interest subsidy on housing advances, from 1971-72 the Commonwealth provided specific revenue grants under the States Grants (Housing) Act 1971, which was amended in 1973 to take account of these new arrangements. 
In 1972-73 the States were advanced $6.55m under the Housing Assistance Act 1973 specifically for additional rental dwellings to supplement the programs they had undertaken and financed from their normal Loan Council borrowings. These advances were provided at an interest rate of 4 per cent per annum and are repayable over 53 years. Since 1973-74 the Commonwealth, under a new Agreement applying for the 5 years from 1973-74 to 1977-78- this was commenced under a Labor Governmenthas advanced funds to the States for welfare housing outside, and in addition to, Loan Council arrangements. The State Government Loan Council programs since 1 973-74 have been, as a result, lower than they would otherwise have been. 
The truth is that welfare housing has been a political football for many years for honourable members opposite. In fact, as I just stated, in 1971-72 and 1972-73, although the previous Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement had finished, there were special arrangements under which money was made available by the then conservative government at 1 per cent below the long term bond rate, particularly in 1971-72. Then in 1972-73, as mentioned, the States were advanced the amount of $6. 55m to provide rent rebates and welfare housing for deserving people. In 1973-74 the new Agreement came into being. 
Although the long term bond rate was 7 per cent that year, the McMahon conservative Government charged the full 7 per cent and, apart from that, provided the advance that I have just mentioned. But when the Australian Labor Party came into power there was a substantial increase in the amount of money available. In the last year of the McMahon Government an amount of $ 167m was made available for welfare housing under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. In the first year of the Labor Government that amount was increased. In the income year 1973-74 it was increased to $225m. In the following year, 1974-75, $385m was made available. In 1975-76, $364m was made available. In the previous year, 1974-75, an amount of $ 10.4m was made available in June which was to be transferred and spent in the income year 1975-76. So for the income year 1974-75, $375m was to be spent. The following year, 1975-76, another $375m was to be spent. 
The Budget for the coming financial year provides an amount of $375m to be spent. In other words, $375m will have been spent on welfare housing this financial year and in each of the last 2 financial years. The difference is that the former Conservative Government charged interest rates of 7 per cent on welfare housing whereas when Labor came to power that interest rate was reduced to 4 per cent. This provided a substantial advantage to people in the low income bracket. The money was made available not only to housing commissions. In New South Wales, Queensland and other States approximately 30 per cent of the money was made available to the terminating building societies. In other words, the money was made available to improve the situation of public or welfare housing which was an extremely short commodity. At that time something like 100 000 people were on the waiting lists for welfare housing. Also, the people covered by the new Agreement- those people earning up to 85 per cent of average weekly earnings- were permitted to place their names on the housing commission lists. Those people who received money through the terminating building societies, through what is called the home builders account, could be earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings and still receive the loan. 
Housing is one of the most difficult problems for any government, Labor or conservative, to solve. At least under the Labor Administration people earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings had a chance of receiving a loan or of placing their names on the housing commission lists. For people earning between 95 per cent of average weekly earnings and approximately 135 per cent, the situation was extremely difficult. The callousness and insincerity of the present Government, which said that it is concerned about and that its hean bleeds for those people on housing commission waiting lists, is shown by the fact that it is providing the same amount of money this financial year- S375m- as was made available 2 years ago. In real terms it is practically 30 per cent below the amount that was made available then because in the last 2 years there has been an annual increase in building costs of approximately 15 per cent. Therefore, with the money to be made available this year, approximately one-third fewer homes can be built now than could be built 2 years ago. Instead of making less money available the Government should be making more money available to the States. It should have shown a more generous approach. 
Another reason why the Government should be making more money available is that the waiting list numbers have increased from 100 000 when Labor was in power and there are now 108 000 applicants waiting for housing commission homes. In New South Wales the number is 38 834. People are suffering because sufficient money has not been made available. Another reason why more money should be made available for housing is that it would aim to overcome the unemployment situation in the home building sector and in the non-dwelling construction sector. In 2 States, New South Wales and Queensland, there is a great deal of unemployment in the building industry. Yet this Government has restricted and frozen the amount of money to be made available to all States at the level of $375m across the board. That is the same amount of money that was made available 2 years ago. In this area if more money were made available, particularly in New South Wales and Queensland, the Government could stimulate the home building industry, and this would have a cumulative effect. I notice that an attempt has been made to do this in Queensland through the split-up of this year's allocation. When new homes are built people need floor coverings, curtains, furnishings and white goods such as refrigerators and washing machines. This would provide a real stimulus to employment in the manufacturing industries which are operating at a very low rate. It would create employment in that industry, as it would in the building industry. 
In my view that is a positive action that the conservative Government should take. But of course this conservative Government does not want to stimulate the economy. Part of its overall Budget strategy is to squeeze the economy to such an extent as to cause fear amongst the workers. The Government wants to dampen down the economy. It does not want to revive the economy at this stage because it wants to put fear into the minds of the Australian workers. The Government regards inflation as its major problem. In the Budget the Government says that this financial year it will reduce inflation from 13 per cent to 12 per cent. What a remarkable effort! So what is the Government doing as the major part of its overall strategy to try to cut down on inflation? It is squeezing the economy. The fact is that a great many of our economic resources are going unused. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  who are both from Queensland know that there is a great deal of unemployment in the home building industry and in the building industry generally. They know there is a necessity for stimulus in the building industry, particularly in the home building industry. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  on many occasions has criticised the Government for not stimulating the home building industry, particularly in New South Wales and Queensland. The Government's efforts to stimulate the industry in Queensland will help that State to some extent but it does show their priorities when New South Walesthe most disadvantaged State- is deliberately ignored. 
A greater amount of money should be made available for such purposes in a Bill such as this, particularly to New South Wales and Queensland, in an effort to stimulate the home building industry and to overcome the problem of unemployment. Interrelated with the home building industry as part of the whole basis of the public sector is, of course, the urban infrastructure. The Government has made brutal cutbacks in expenditure on urban and regional development. The Whitlam Government, which was elected to power in December 1972, had a commitment to overcome the plight facing urban development. In both Sydney and Melbourne it was committed to overcoming the sewerage backlog and the pollution problems. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  who interjects knows about the pollution and sewerage problems of Melbourne. He knows that there are unsewered areas within his electorate of La Trobe. He knows of the pollution which in fact is filtering into the creeks in his electorate, which in turn empty into Port Phillip Bay and thus create a pollution problem there. 
What has happened this year? Last year $34m was made available for a sewerage program in Melbourne. How much is being made available this year? The figure is approximately $17m. That is the extent of the cutback in expenditure. What projects does the Government intend to undertake? The fact is that more and more the urban environment of both Sydney and Melbourne will degenerate, particularly under this Government's new federalism policy. The Government stands condemned because of its overall Budget strategy of cutting back on public works, which in fact would improve the conditions and working life of the community. The Government stands condemned because it has reduced expenditure on welfare housing and urban and regional development, particularly in Sydney and in Melbourne. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Construction. I preface my question by stating: Budget Statement No. 2 states that 'since the slump in non-dwelling construction investment has been relatively great, the outlook may still imply a fall for 1976-77 as a whole,' while on Thursday last the Minister for Construction said that the construction industry will benefit significantly from this year's Budget. I ask: Does the Minister still claim that the nonresidential sector of the building and construction industry will benefit when in cash terms a minimum expenditure increase of $74m is needed- not $21m- to maintain the Government's civil works program at the same level as in 1975-76 in real terms? Is the Minister aware that total payments to the States and Loan Council borrowings have been reduced in real terms? In what way will this industry benefit when these conditions prevail? 
-I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I address my comments to the Budget and the overall economic strategy, because the Government tells us that together they make up a comprehensive program to combat inflation. Together this year they will bring inflation down from 13 to 12 per cent. It is enlightening,  Mr Speaker,  to have the Budget before us. It gives us all a clearer indication of what this Government's priorities are. We have known for some time what this conservative Government is against. This became apparent very early in the piece. Despite a pre-election commitment to wage indexation, we know that it is against any rise in real wages. We knew that it was against the current level of the standard of living of the vast majority of the people of Australia. We knew of its opposition to Medibank and we knew of its opposition to public sector involvement in the provision of services which improve the quality of life. This Government is opposed to the idea of the 'social wage'. It says that it is against inflation, but expects a fall of only one per cent, from 13 to 12 per cent, in this financial year. Thus Budget has been useful only to show us more clearly what the Government is for. Of course, we could see that it was for profits and for a shift out of wages to profits. It is for the fall in the real wage. Now we know beyond all doubt what it is for. It is for the return to the old days of the concentration of economic power and spending power in the hands of the rich, the big and those born to rule. 
We have heard a lot about confidence, which this Budget is supposed to be for. But it cannot be 'consumer confidence' they are after. The Government surely does not believe that wage earners will become 'confident consumers' because the inflation rate might go down by one percentage point, while their real wages and job prospects are both declining. Business confidence looks a little shaky too. It is not the general run of businessmen who get joy out of having the Government assault their workers and consumers. The Budget shows clearly where the Government is boosting confidence; it is in the oil and mining industries. It is the big companiesAustralian and foreign- engaged in the mining industries which are the No. 1 beneficiaries, almost the only beneficiaries, of this Budget. And so now we know what this Government is really for; what its main strategy for recovery is. It is for a foreign investment-led recovery with activity centering around the mining industry. A general recovery is being held back. When everything has been wound down and has cooled off, the mining sector will emerge as more dominant than it has ever been in the Australian economy. 
The mining sector will be the new big customer in the economy, at least for the time the projects are getting under way. After that stage it becomes a leech, draining our wealth while putting nothing back in. Now that its strategy has become clear, more of the actions of this deceitful government can be explained. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  told us that they were not international tourists. Now we know what they are; they are international salesmen. They have personally let it be known in most of the major cities of the world that Australia is up for sale. The Foreign Investment Review Board also has been turned into an agency for soliciting foreign investment. Two of its three members currently are overseas drumming up business. 
This Government may be for big business, but my concern, and the concern of the Labor Party, is for the ordinary people. The Government's only concern for the people is that the people may find out the true implications of its actions. It has put in considerable effort to diffuse the reaction of the people, to disguise the extent to which the Budget and the overall strategy reduce their position in the Australian community. It is playing cat and mouse games with the people, while all the time it is undermining their standard of living. 
With the bogus newspaper reports the Government created fears about new measures that the Budget would bring- rumours of increased taxes on beer, cigarettes and petroland so manipulated a feeling of relief amongst the people when the Budget contents became known. But we know of course that the Budget did not give relief. The Budget gives nothing to the besieged wage and salary earners. Tax indexation was not devised to assist the worker; it was devised to assist the employers by reducing the workers' claims on the employers for the maintenance of real wages. Indeed, the things that appear to be given are a sham. The increased child endowment is all but balanced by an increase in personal taxation due to the abolition of the rebates for dependent children. Gains from tax indexation are eaten away by the regressive tax on Medibank. 
I turn now to the longer term structural implications of this package for the people. The Budget sets about in a deliberate way to destroy the public good that a responsible, humane public sector can provide for all the people. The Labor Government's programs for health, Medibank, education and the cities were programs that contributed to the total wellbeing of the vast majority of the people. The people paid for them and the result was the provision of the services that could not be provided at an economical cost on an individual basis. But now as a part of its overall strategy of aggression against the majority or the ordinary people this Government has removed 'public goods' from the people. Within 8 months this conservative Government has virtually destroyed all programs that sought to improve the urban environment of our major cities and to relieve the pressures on cities by developing regional growth centres. These were major reforms but they are being destroyed. 
If this Government succeeds in destroying Albury-Wodonga, it will destroy decentralisation for all time. Its policies will continue to create over-centralisation and the chaos and human suffering that over-centralisation has created in many parts of Sydney and Melbourne. The urban and regional development policies of the Labor Government were aimed at reversing the many years of neglect and making positive, structural improvement. The main beneficiaries of these programs were the lower two-thirds of the population who had not been accustomed to receiving benefits in terms of improvements in their quality of life, by the provision of 'public goods'. The Labor Party believes that the public sector has a role to play in the provision of public goods. Now its initiatives in that direction are being destroyed, because this government's conservative ideology says so. Now, if people do not want to see the population density of their areas become high, or if they want their area to have a sewerage service, a park or better roads, they are expected by this Government somehow to arrange for these things themselves. 
This same ideology is arrogant, and antiworker. It dictates that in the present circumstances unemployment should rise and that the public sector should play no positive role in providing employment. This Government is going about creating unemployment in an attempt to tame the workers. Of course, I am disappointed and angry that the urban and regional programs are being destroyed. But I am even more concerned for the situation that has been imposed by this Government on all working people and their families. The structural implications of this Budget and the overall strategy are much greater than the destruction of that part of Government activity that directly improved the quality of life in our cities. For the longer term the prospects of the vast majority for employment and economic security are poor. The long term prospects for a return to full employment in Australia are poor. 
Last Monday's newspapers reported a fall of 60 000 in those employed in the metal industry in 2 years; yet at the same time 2 multinational companies exported S000 jobs to Singapore. Also, advances in technology mean fewer people are required to produce greater output. Yet this Government does nothing to come to terms with the fact that in the future workers will have a great deal more difficulty rinding employment. When it sees jobs exported, when it exports those jobs itself- as is the case with the recent shipbuilding decision- it reverts to its typical antiworker attitude and to disguise this the Government blames the Australian workers for this situation. The ruling economic forces and their conservative Government are eager to play their part in the international capitalist system. There is quite a lot in it for them. But they expect Australian workers to drop their wages back to competitive levels. They say that unless the Australian workers are prepared to accept the same wage as a Japanese worker or a Singapore worker on an assembly line, they deserve to lose their jobs; they have priced themselves out of the market. Now, with the present Government strategy of turning Australia into a quarry, the problems of the long-term employment situation will be compounded. 
It is not in the interests of the working people of Australia, or of the business people who rely on them as customers, to turn this country into a quarry. The mining industry involves only low levels of processing. There is a low labour content. Apart from this the multinationals will not allow too high a level of processing in the same country as the mineral deposits. They prefer to have the operations spread around the world because then the whole industry can be more easily controlled. The trend now is to locate the more labour intensive processing in low income countries. For example, when the Australian Labor Party was in office Comalco Ltd and Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia proposed to take bauxite to the Philippines rather than keep it in Australia for processing. 
There will not be many jobs coming as a result of the Government share in the profits of mining projects. This Government has virtually given away all the revenue; it has told the companies to keep it for their own purposes. And besides, this Government is against the public sector providing jobs. Also, the growth of the mining industry, and exports of minerals will mean the erosion of Australia's manufacturing industry. This happens because when export earnings are high the major trading partners exert pressure to raise our imports in the name of trade balance. None of the major buyers of minerals from Australia is going to tolerate unfavourable trade balances for too long. Imports will have to rise in line with exports. And these imports will be imports of foreign manufactured goods. The cost of the growth of the mining industry will be the destruction of the domestic manufacturing industry. We will trade a low employment, high profit industry for our more labour intensive manufacturing industry; the workers will be even further disenfranchised; and Australia will be even more dependent on other economies. 
I mentioned earlier the deceit of this Government in manipulating public attitudes on the Budget. I now provide another example of its deception. In support of its strategy for reducing inflation the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech used selections from an Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development communique. He quoted the OECD concern about inflation and the danger of new inflationary pressure emerging as recovery gets under way. But we need to look at what else the OECD had to say. What did the OECD identify as the most dangerous sources of inflationary pressure? It identified profit margins, rising commodity prices and a profitable inventory boom, particularly from speculation in basic commodities. These danger zones are precisely the areas this Government is fostering with its economic strategy. At no time did the OECD say that this inflationary pressure arises because workers' real wages are maintained. At no time did it endorse this Government's basic anti-inflation strategy, its heavy handed anti-worker strategy of a rapid reduction in real wages and a sharp increase in unemployment. 
The present Australian Government is the only government in an industrialised country that has chosen, at this stage of the protracted world-wide recession, to mount an all out assault on the workers. It is the only government that has chosen aggression against its workers as its basic strategy for the reduction in the inflation rate. Most enlightened governments have recognised that the ills of the system are not the fault of the workers and have taken measures to assist the workers in the short and longer run. Workers, treated with this regard, have made concessions in a spirit of true compromise. But in Australia the Government does not seek compromise, it seeks confrontation. The Treasurer's reference to the OECD not only provides another example of his tendency to deception but also shows that this Government's strategy to control inflation is dangerously in error. 
I end with a prediction. I predict that the strategy of the Government will fail- probably in time for the 1978 elections, but certainly in the longer term. We will not see sustained recovery in consumption and investment. We will not see a fall in the inflation rate. We will probably see increases in interest rates if the Treasurer's expectations about the money supply eventuate. The Government itself is preparing for this. It has its tracks covered. It is ready for failure. It has already sowed the seeds of its explanation of the failure. When inflation continues it will point to any rise in wages above a total freeze as the cause. When recovery does not come and the workers are taking action to oppose the heavy handed policies against them, the lack of union co-operation will be given as the reason for the failure of the recovery. 
This Government cannot face reality. It has never taken the blame for its own mistakes. It has always had a scapegoat. This time the scapegoat is going to be the unions. The conservatives during their long career in manipulation of the people devised the tactic of using a bogy. I have been in this House for many years and I have seen that manipulation. We all remember the ugly campaigns of kicking the communist can. We all remember the references to the downward thrust of communism and to the question of where we draw the line. We always will remember that approach which was taken by the conservative forces to throw fear into the Australian people. Their new bogy is the unions. Already, they are building up that bogy. But the 'Reds under the beds' could not fight back. The workers of Australia can. The Government is unnecessarily creating a situation of heightened confrontation in Australia. It has turned on the vast majority of ordinary people. It has become the government for big business and not the government for the people. It cannot expect the people to tolerate this situation. The people will defend their rights against this Government. I ask the House to reject this Budget. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it true that the Australian Government has abandoned the provision of aid to East Timor through international channels and instead will channel future humanitarian aid through the Indonesian Red Cross? Further, in view of the Indonesian Red Cross's partisan role in the Timor conflict, what guarantees have been received from the Indonesian Government and what controls have been imposed by the Australian Government to ensure that aid goes to all areas in East Timor and not just to Indonesian controlled areas? Finally, I ask whether persistent Press reports that the Government change in Timor aid policy means that Australia is about to recognise Indonesian annexation of East Timor are true? 
-I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I say at the outset that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  plays a Jekyll and Hyde role in the Liberal Party of Australia. He is extremely critical of the policy of the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  He, together with the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  is extremely critical of the actual policy of this Budget. I want to clarify one matter that he mentioned. The honourable member used a jargonistic term to describe me. He said that I was a centralist. The honourable member is well aware that I am not a centralist. I never have been a centralist and I hope that I never will be one. I believe that the real hope of this Parliament, this Government and democracy as a whole lies in the decentralisation of power and in getting power back to the grass roots level of the people who have a real understanding of the situation. 
I do hope, unlike many honourable members in this House, that the people will in fact involve themselves in the democratic processes of this nation. If they have to protest in order to express themselves then they must do so. They must have an understanding of the situation. They just cannot stand by and allow a ruthless government to use its power in the violent way in which this one has used its power in the past and will use it in the future. They have to be vigilant at all times. That is why I am not a centralist. I am an anti-centralist. 
I believe that the solution to the problems of this nation will be achieved only through the 4 levels of elective government, namely, the Australian, State, local and semi-governmental authorities acting in a spirit of co-operation with the people and working as a team. That is the only way in which we can in fact overcome the grave problems facing us. As Minister for Urban and Regional Development, I had a major role under the Whitlam Government. Neither  Mr Hamer  nor  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  can say that I, as a Minister, adopted a centralist role or a role of authority. I worked in a co-operative spirit, as did my officers, to try to make some progress and to achieve some understanding. I challenge honourable members opposite to say that I did not in fact play that role to try to bring about a spirit of co-operation in an endeavour to solve our problems. The honourable member for Lilley, who used the jargonistic term 'centralism', has very little understanding of what it means. He said that this legislation was brought in because of the power that had been accruing to the central government. Under the conservative governments- the Menzies Government, the Holt Government, the Gorton Government and the McMahon Government- there was a move towards greater centralisation of power. 
Between 1950 and 1970 the Commonwealth debt remained static but the cost of servicing it increased by about 50 per cent because of increased interest rates. During that time the States' debts increased by 700 per cent, the debt of local government authorities by 2000 per cent and the debt of semi-government authorities by 2800 per cent. The honourable member for Lilley talked about relieving the burden on the States. The latest figures available show that between 1970 and 1973 the burden on the States increased more than at any other time. The Australian Government share of the national debt dropped from 27 per cent in 1940 to 19 per cent in 1970 and to 14.9 per cent in 1973, with virtually all this fall occurring in the last 10 years. The States' share of the debt dropped from 56 per cent to 45 per cent and then to 40 per cent over the same period. But the semi-government authorities' share of the burden soared from 1 1 per cent in 1940 to 36.9 per cent. It outstripped the burden of the Australian Government. This is what we want to examine in regard to the debt situation. 
There are only a couple of points I want to waste on the honourable member for Lilley, but it is important that we understand and analyse the position of a critic of the Liberal Government's policy. In cutting up the national cake this year favouritism was shown to the Western Australian Government. Table 7 on page 69 of Budget Paper No. 7, dealing with payments under the national sewerage program, shows that in 1975-76 New South Wales received $43.2m. This year it will receive $ 19.9m. Victoria received $35.5m last year, $ 17.5m this year. The honourable member's home State, Queensland, suffered badly. It received $14m last year and only $1.3m this year. But Western Australia received $ 12.5m last year and $9.3m this year. Why? Cutting back on the sewerage program creates more unemployment. Is it just by chance that an election is coming up in Western Australia? A severe cut in Western Australia 's allocation would have affected the electoral chances of the Government there. Consequently there was a manipulation of the figures by this centralist government under the guise of so called new federalism. The Labor Government cut up the national cake in a co-operative spirit with the States and it did not set any arbitrary figures. The figures are there for all to see. I ask all honourable members to check Budget Paper No. 7 at page 69. 
The honourable member for Lilley talked about government expenditure. Of course the Labor Government used government expenditure to create a sewerage program because this area had been neglected for so long by conservative governments. Only 50 per cent of Perth was sewered, and in Sydney and Melbourne one in six families did not have their home connected to sewerage works. Today, even with a record number of houses built under the welfare housing system, there are 108 000 people waiting for houses. Yet the amount of money made available this year is the same as Labor's contribution 2 years ago- Because the whole cost structure of housing has risen between 25 and 30 per cent, fewer houses will be built this financial year. The Labor Government set out to develop a selected growth centre program to try to overcome the overcentralisation of Sydney and Melbourne that occurred during 23 years of negative conservative government. Aid to local government was an outstanding Labor achievement, as were land commissions. South Australia, Western Australia, Victoria, New South Wales and Tasmania entered into agreements with the Australian Government on land commissions. It was only the ultraconservative Government of Queensland that did not benefit from land commissions. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  knows that when there is a resurgence of home building land prices will spiral in Queensland more than in any other State. 
In this Bill we see just one more component of the Fraser Government attack on the States and the people under the guise of new federalism and economic necessity. This Bill appropriates a grant component of this year's Loan Council program for the States. The program in total amounts to $ 1,356m, of which the grant component is $452m. This is an increase of only 5 per cent for both borrowings and capital grants in the program over last year. The Treasurer was at great pains in his second reading speech to say that a 5 per cent increase in the 1976-77 State Government Loan Council program was being unfairly criticised by many States and many Australian people. He went into great detail to try to perpetuate the myths and misrepresentations for which this Government is well known by comparing the decrease in expenditure of around 7 per cent in real terms in this program with the increases in this and other programs under the Labor Government. The Treasurer is a very negative Treasurer. He is a plastic man. Nothing can alter the fact that whatever he says the States, semi-government authorities, local government authorities and the people are much worse off because of the Government's policies and priorities. 
In total, all payments to and for the States and local government, whether by way of Loan Council borrowings, revenue snaring or specific purpose payments, have increased in cash terms by only 7 per cent over last year's expenditurean expenditure which was reduced by the so-called savings introduced by the Fraser Government between January and May this year. There has been an increase of only 7 per cent when inflation has been running at 12 to 13 per cent, and that is a conservative figure. The Government is confronted with a balance of payments problem. It is feasible that it will not be able to hold off devaluation. If devaluation comes about it will magnify inflation in this country in the next financial year. The present estimated inflation rate of 12 to 13 per cent will be swamped. Inflation will be much greater than that. 
There is a decrease in actual money flowing to the States, from whatever Federal Government source, of 5 per cent in real terms. The Fraser Goverment claims that its federalism policy will make the States equal partners in the federal system. This is nonsense. What the federalism policy means under the Fraser Government is that the Government can wash its hands of all involvement in helping the States and local government to provide the basic everyday services required by the people. The Government's federalism policy will not make the States equal. It will lead to inequalities between the States. In time, the States will be forced to raise their own charges to provide the goods and services people desire. That will lead to inequalities between the States and make them less powerful partners in the federal system than they are today. In time, the wealthy States will be able to improve the goods and services they provide by comparison with those provided by the smaller and weaker States. They will be able to provide services which the smaller States will not be able to provide. 
The Loan Council program for the States is one of the main avenues by which the States fund their own capital works programs, and it is on that basis that the effects of this Bill should be considered. As I have already said, there has been a decrease of 7 per cent in real terms in the Loan Council program, and the State's capital works programs will suffer to that extent. The decrease in the Loan Council program will lead to a reduction in the provision of basic public goods, and the building and construction industry will be the first to feel the pressure on the States. I will deal later with the question of  Mr Hamer  's Budget and how he has cut his programs. This Government has argued that it has done well by the States, but it should read the Hamer Budget because the message there is load and clear. Essential public works have been cut. 
Let us look at the reduced spending by this Government in other areas that directly affect the States' capital works programs. For instance, last year the national sewerage program allocation was $113m. I made a commitment to the State Ministers that that $1 13m would be maintained in real terms, and that this year the States would receive something like $130m. Instead, the amount has been cut back to $50m. The amount allocated for growth centres, which seek to counteract the overcentralisation of Sydney and Melbourne, has been cut from $84m last year to $19m this year. Grants for land commissions have been reduced from $64.6m last year to $ 15.1m this year, and area improvement programs assistance to local governments in direct grants has been reduced from $17m last year to $500,000 this year. 
Let me examine some of the details of the Hamer Budget.  Mr Hamer  is the favourite State son of the Treasurer and of the Prime Minister. What are the main features of the Victorian Budget? Funds for the construction industry have been cut, sewerage programs have been cut, as well as allocations for the Australian Assistance Plan and welfare housing. Overall, there has been a 2 per cent cut in real terms in general works and services programs. The sewerage program in the State of Victoria has been cut from $30.97m in the last financial year to $13. lm in this financial year, and that has many implications. In the short term, the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works will have to cut its day labour force from 5500 to 3500. Two thousand employees will lose their jobs as a direct consequence of Fraser's new federalism. In the long term, the cuts mean that Melbourne has no hope of being fully serviced by 1982, and I doubt whether there will be a full sewerage service in Melbourne by the year 2000. One can imagine the effect of pollution on the Yarra Valley and Port Phillip Bay. Those areas will become sewers as a result of Fraser's new federalism policy. We have heard for so long what Premier Hamer was going to do about the pollution problem in Port Phillip Bay, but the problem is going to be prolonged and aggravated because of the policies of the Fraser Government. 
As a result of the Hamer Budget, school building will decline. The allocation has been decreased from $45m last year to $44m this year. In real terms, that is a reduction or 12 per cent. There is no hope of providing Victorian children with the school facilities to which the Schools  Commission  thinks they are entitled. This year the grant for welfare housing is a measly $98m. While Premier Hamer admits that the industry in Victoria is capable of building 5000 homes - 
Victoria is capable of building 5000 homes this year but only 2750 will be built. Therefore, living standards in Victoria will suffer. This measure and the measures of the Fraser Government's new federalism are a sham. The States will suffer greatly, and no State will suffer more than those  States'  which are conservative, particularly the State of Victoria. If one examines the Budget introduced' today by Premier Hamer, it will be seen that a great deal more unemployment will be created because the public works program has been cut. .' 
I ask the Foreign Minister whether the Government's claimed 15 per cent increase in overseas aid was achieved by comparing the 1976-77 Budget allocation with the 1975-76 expenditure, which because of the Treasurer's 20 May cuts was $3 8.6m below the 1975- 76 Budget allocation? I further ask whether the actual increase in Budget allocations for 1976- 77 was only $12.9m- an increase of 3.3 per cent in cash terms and a reduction in real terms of about 8 per cent? 
-I join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in the motion of condolence for  Chairman  Mao Tse-tung. Mao Tse-tung was a great leader, a brilliant revolutionary thinker, a great military strategist, an outstanding patriot, a scholar and a poet. But above all he was a man of the people. He was a man who dominated his country's history and development for half a century, guiding it from a state of political and economic collapse in the 1920s through the troughs and peaks of its development to the thriving, self-reliant and internationally respected nation that China is today. By the people of China Mao was not only respected, he was loved. Our hearts go out to the Chinese people as they mourn the death of Mao Tse-tung. 
As a revolutionary thinker Mao made unique contributions to the theory and practice of revolution. His inspired analysis of the Chinese situation led to the recognition of the key role to be played by the masses of the people, who in China were the peasants. He merged the cause of national liberation with the goal of social revolution to overthrow the Chinese ruling class. He developed the idea of the continuing nature of revolution. In the cultural revolution he alerted the Chinese revolution and all social revolutions to the dangers of the re-emergence of the ruling cliques or classes. Mao was a patriot and a man of the people. He had a profound faith in the ability of the Chinese people to overcome the vast obstacles that faced them and to carry through an effective revolution. 'The will of the people is a spiritual bomb', said Mao. His firm conviction placed an indelible stamp on the course of the Chinese revolution, and on the revolutionary theory that the world has inherited from Mao Tse-tung. 
Mao also based his strategy for the revolution and for a new China on a belief about the nature of man which is very different from the beliefs that dominate our society. To Mao people were not fundamentally selfish and self-seeking. If they were it was because of the dominant ideology of the ruling class. He believed that through persuasion and example, through correct ideology, people's attitudes could be changed so that they would cast aside selfish considerations and, in the interests of all people, commit themselves to the tough struggle to build a new China. As a result, China has undertaken a process in which material incentives are being steadily abandoned in favour of moral incentives. The people do not work for increased material gain for themselves or out of economic insecurity. I have observed at first hand many examples of the Chinese people taking joy in their work for the benefit of the whole society. Mao stressed the need for the Chinese economy to be self-reliant. After more than a century of exploitation by colonialist powers, and economic disruption at the hands of the Soviet Union, the Chinese economy has been set upon the course of self-reliance. No other country in the world is less affected by the upheavals in the present world economy. 
The speculation about a successor to Mao that has been taking place in the Western Press is, at best, an illustration of a gross lack of understanding of the significance of Mao Tse-tung. Many Western commentators seek to reduce his stature to that of just another political leader. But the significance of Mao's life and thought is so much greater than that. He was a man of the modern world. The people of China have inherited the fruits of his work. They have inherited his theory to guide the course of their revolution for a long time to come. There will undoubtedly be struggles ahead in the course of China's continuing revolution. Mao foresaw that. The Chinese people foresee it. It is closely tied up with their understanding of the nature of change and progress. However, my visits to China, particularly the second visit a few months ago, have left me totally convinced that, for the Chinese people, no struggle is too great and that the will of the vast majority of the people will undoubtedly prevail. 
The thoughts of Mao that, people, of great significance to all classes of people throughout the world who have felt the authority of the ruling class and of foreign domination. His thoughts have guided the Chinese revolution for 50 years and they will live long in the future achievements of new China. They will be a guide to the future shaping of all human society. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether recently the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission prevented the ABC News from showing a news clip on East Timor- a clip which was shown subsequently on the Channel 9 program,  A Current Affair?  Will the Prime Minister give an undertaking to the House that such blatant political censorship by the  Chairman  of the ABC will cease? 
-The Treasurer will be aware that in a speech made to the Retail Traders Association in Sydney this week the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  suggested that a major boost to the economy could be provided by the fashion industry. I ask the Treasurer: Does this suggest that the Government believes that planned obsolescence is really a dynamic factor in a capitalist economy such as ours? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it true, as has been publicly reported, that in April this year the Minister for Foreign Affairs told the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  that Australia understood Indonesia's position to be that Indonesia had to incorporate East Timor into Indonesia? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and is supplementary to the question asked of him by the honourable member for La Trobe. It is in regard to the non-dwelling construction industry. I ask: Did the Fraser Government cancel an $80m office construction program that was approved by the Whitlam Government which would have been of no cost to revenue for at least 2 years and which would have stimulated the construction industry in the capital cities and selected growth centres? Was this proposal accepted by all leaders of the construction industry? Have all sections of the industry protested to the Government about the cancellation of the program? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Prospect and is concerned with the sell-out of the ex-servicemen of this country by the Fraser Government - 
-The AlburyWodonga Development Corporation was a major achievement of the Whitlam Labor Government. That achievement is now under threat. It is the Opposition's opinion and, I understand, the opinion of the governments of New South Wales and Victoria that the Australian Government is in breach of its legal obligations in respect of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. This Government once again has not followed procedures that have been laid down by statute. This Government once again has shown that its federalism policy is a sham. This Government has shown beyond all doubt that it has no policy for decentralisation; rather that it continues to encourage overcentralisation, particularly in the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. 
We are not making these charges lightly. We are making them because the Australian Labor Party believes that the governments of both New South Wales and Victoria and the people of Albury-Wodonga as well as the residents of our major cities of Sydney and Melbourne have been dealt a severe blow by this Government's highhanded and deliberate action in ignoring the provisions of the Albury-Wodonga Development Agreement. This Agreement is embodied in Acts of this Parliament and the parliaments of New South Wales and Victoria. Those Acts are the Albury-Wodonga Development Act of 1973, the Albury-Wodonga Development Act of 1974 in New South Wales and the Albury-Wodonga Agreement Act of 1973 in Victoria. It was the intention of the 3 governments, as expressed in the preamble to the Agreement, that 'a development corporation will, by developing a growth complex, create a city with a high quality environment, properly planned and properly developed, having full regard to human requirements and the involvement of the public'. It was intended to provide a viable alternative to the chaos of overcentralised Sydney and Melbourne. 
But what is the intention of the Fraser Government? It has refused to give anything but token support to the growth centre. Token support is the first nail in the coffin of this selected growth centre. There has to be a real Australian Government commitment and there has not been that commitment. The Fraser Government has ignored the wishes of its State counterparts and the people of the area to continue with the growth centre concept and it has ignored its legal obligations. How can the people have any faith in such a Government? Token support was not what the Liberal and National Country Parties promised prior to 13 December. The obligations of the Australian Government in regard to Albury-Wodonga are quite specific. They are clearly set out in the Agreement that has been ignored by the Fraser Government. 
Let me summarise quickly what the Fraser Government has done in breach of this Agreement and how it is trying to force the States of New South Wales and Victoria into accepting a token commitment from the Federal Government. The Australian Government has a clear obligation under the Agreement to ensure that the Development Corporation can carry out its functions in accordance with the development plan. To do this the Government has to provide all the funds needed by the Corporation. It has not done that. It has appropriated only enough funds to enable firm contractual commitments that existed at the end of the last financial year to be met. 
The Development Corporation has an obligation under the Agreement to prepare a 5-year plan each year for consideration by the Ministerial Council. The plan has been prepared but not presented. The Government should have convened a Ministerial Council meeting to consider this plan. That has not been done. The Ministerial Council, after consideration of the plan, is then required to forward it to the 3 governments. That has not been done. The 3 governments should then consult to determine the money required to meet the proposals agreed to in the first year of that plan. That has not been done. Because those things have not been done the decision reached by the Fraser Government on the amount of funds to be allocated to AlburyWodonga in 1976-77 is not in accordance with the terms of the Agreement. This reminds me of the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  towards the State Premiers at this year's Loan Council of 'take it or leave it but let us not discuss it'. That is the Fraser Government's new federalism policy. 
On those facts there has been a clear breach of the Agreement by the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth is unilaterally attempting to force the States to accept those breaches of the Agreement by providing funds which are much less than those required to carry out the second year of the 5-year plan put to the Ministerial Council and the States in 1975-76. No Ministerial Council meeting was held to consider a 5-year plan, but a meeting was held in August of this year. At that meeting the Commonwealth Minister, again in breach of the Agreement, laid down the law- the Fraser Government's dictum -for a reduced level of Commonwealth involvement in Albury-Wodonga. 
The Minister told the States that only funds to provide for a minimum viable program would be provided. That was the Minister's fall back position. He did in fact initially demand that the States match the Commonwealth's contribution to the Corporation. The State governments and the States refused. The States understand the Agreement and its ramifications. They knew that this was contrary to clause 9 (8) of the AlburyWodonga Agreement. The Minister for State Development and Decentralisation in Victoria,  Mr Crozier,  was upset to say the least. He said: 
I believe the Commonwealth is breaking both the AlburyWodonga Agreement and the side letters which accompanied it. 
He also said that the Federal Government was disregarding official Liberal Party policy on regional development. He went on to say: 
Victoria will seek a legal opinion from the State AttorneyGeneral. 
Does this mean that Victoria will take the Commonwealth to court? What an achievement for the first 10 months of the Fraser Government's new federalism. The New South Wales Government is also taking similar action. Its Crown Solicitor has been asked to prepare an opinion on the issue. 

 Mr Crozier mentioned the side letters which contained a statement of principles and policies to be observed by the 3 governments. These side letters are a clear statement of intent and are morally binding. The side letters contain a statement that the Australian Government undertakes to make available the funds necessary to acquire land needed for development purposes in the financial year which is relevant to the development plan. This requirement has been ignored. At present 500 land holders in the designated area are in grave financial difficulties because of the Commonwealth's refusal to provide funds to the State corporations for land acquisition. What sort of trust and goodwill is being built by such treatment of individuals? The Labor Government was trying to overcome any problem of this kind in the Albury-Wodonga area. It was trying to build goodwill with the land owners and to ensure that they would not have to suffer the harsh treatment they have suffered since the Fraser Government came into being. The Labor Government recognised this problem. It was its intention to complete all land acquisitions within the first 5 years. This can no longer happen because of the Fraser Government's refusal to honour the Agreement and the side letters. 
The Fraser Government has blatantly ignored its legal obligations and it has blatantly ignored the wishes of the States. It ignores the fact that the States are financially weaker than the Commonwealth, and it ignores the concept of cooperation among all levels of government. The Fraser Government has destroyed the spirit of goodwill which existed between the Labor Government and the governments of New South Wales and Victoria in regard to urban and regional development. It has destroyed cooperative federalism and replaced it with distrust and doubt. The result of the Fraser Government's lack of policy and its failure to honour the conditions of the Agreement are already having a harsh effect on the regions economy. Construction firms are leaving because they have no faith in the Fraser Government's commitment to Albury-Wodonga. The boost to the region's economy by the original decision to declare Albury-Wodonga a growth centre is well documented but not known or understood by many on the Government side. The boost occurred because both public and private sector funds have been heavily invested in the area, but this investment has now practically stopped because of the Fraser Government's deliberate actions. In 3 years the Labor Government's commitment to Albury-Wodonga was $90m. The Fraser Government has appropriated $15m this year- a token, gesture only. 
The 2 State governments have already invested heavily and their forward planning envisages the investment of a further $ 1 5 1 m in the centre during the next 5 years on the provision of State-type services such as hospitals, housing, schools and other basic community services. The States' commitment to this project should not be ignored. I challenge the Minister to tell us how a 
Fraser Government federalism policy which simply closes off borders and stops intergovernmental co-operation can succeed and how the problems of our cities can be overcome when the Federal Government divorces itself from the problems of our cities. 
The latest figures available show that in the 2-year period from 1973 to 1975 the rate of increase in private investment in AlburyWodonga was 62 per cent as opposed to a national average of 17.3 per cent. At the same time private employment increased at a rate much higher than the national average. In the last 6 months of 1975, when the national rate of growth in private employment was minus 2 per cent, Albury-Wodonga was improving at the rate of plus 7.5 per cent. But now the economy of the district is stagnating because of the Government's failure to follow the conditions of the Agreement, by its failure to give a genuine commitment to the centre, by its failure to develop a decentralisation policy, and by its failure to provide sufficient funds for the program to continue in viable form. 
Let me give some details of the economics of public investment. What are the issues involved? What are the costs to settle people in the outer suburbs of Sydney or Melbourne compared with Albury-Wodonga or other growth centres? The current cost to the public sector to settle one extra person in Sydney is around $17,000, according to State agencies. By comparison, the amount of public investment required to settle one person in Albury-Wodonga is only $13,500. In Canberra the amount is $13,000. On top of this, a resident in Sydney, on a conservative estimate, has to spend between $500 and $700 more a year on transport than a resident of Canberra. AlburyWodonga would be similar to Canberra. 
What is the situation regarding land prices? The prices outside Sydney and Melbourne at least give some hope to young people that they can acquire a block of land. The average price of land in the outer suburbs of Melbourne is $16,750. In the outer suburbs of Sydney it is $18,500. In Albury-Wodonga it is between $5,000 and $6,800. In Canberra it is between $6,500 and $8,000. Land and home are becoming an impossible dream for so many young people in Sydney and Melbourne. Of course, one of the basic proposals of the Labor Party was to try to make land available in areas such as Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange, Geelong and Canberra by the development of growth centres. 
If the Albury-Wodonga Corporation is not given a full commitment by the Fraser Government decentralisation will be destroyed for all time. Over centralisation of Sydney and Melbourne will accelerate the chaotic proportions. I call on the Fraser Government to reverse its policy and to stand by the Whitlam Labor Government's commitment to Albury-Wodonga and give a real commitment to this growth centre. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs will be aware that the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on shipbuilding admits it is recommending the sacking of 26 per cent of the work force of Whyalla and 2.5 per cent of the work force of Newcastle. It further admits there are no alternative jobs in either region, especially for young apprentices. I ask the Minister what measures the Government will take to maintain the economies of these 2 important decentralised regions. 
-This Government is refusing to act in the true interests of Australia and Australians. Nowhere is that more true than in the sphere of foreign affairs. Ever since the public rejection of the recent pronouncements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the Government has realised its weakness in foreign affairs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has no control over Australia's foreign relations. The Government, notwithstanding the attempts of the Minister, is pursuing reactionary policies. 
The control of the Prime Minister is reflected in this Government's policies. We have returned to the covert encouragement of the racist South African regime. Official contacts are secretly being resumed. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has been directed to resume contacts with the Bureau of State Securityknown as BOSS- which is the South African secret police organisation. Are we to co-operate in the oppression of South Africa's blacks? Are we to co-operate in the spying on Australian residents to aid the racist government of South Africa? There have been revelations about the activities of BOSS in Britain that should make one extremely wary about its potential for dirty tricks and interference in our domestic politics. ASIO may be delighted, but the decision is a disgraceful one for Australia, particularly at this stage of the historical development of southern African politics. 
But it is not more disgraceful than the general thrust of this Government's foreign policies. Today in Australia we have an attempt at an only slightly modified return to the past. Under previous conservative governments we had the fear psychology of the downward thrust and the 'where do we draw the line' mentality. It has now been transferred to the Indian Ocean with the build up of the Russian involvement phobia. We now have the bogy of the Russian Navy. 
For the enlightened, humanitarian internationalism of the Whitlam Labor years we now have a narrow, secretive, suspicious view of the world. We have the emphasis on military perceptions of the world. We have a return to the view of the world as exclusively composed of competing armed camps. The Third World, which is where the mass of the people on this planet live, is ignored. The Labor Government's genuine sympathy with and concern for the less fortunate has been replaced by a government of platitudes. 
The Third World leaders are not stupid. They have penetrated the facade that this Government presents to the world. That is why the conference of non-aligned nations in Colombo recently did not invite Australia to assume an observer status. Yet last year, under Labor, Australia was invited to be an observer. That is why the Association of South East Asian Nations refused Australia's overtures for an ASEAN-Australia trade committee. They were major and deserved diplomatic rebuffs. They indicate considerable suspicion of this Government's policy by the Third World governments. For example, the Indian Ocean littoral states correctly see the Prime Minister's encouragement of the United States base at Diego Garcia as a dangerous provocation. They share the attitude of the Australian Labor Party and  Senator Sim-  a senator from the Government's own benches- that there is no reason to be particularly alarmed about the Soviet Union's activities in the Indian Ocean. 
One has only to examine the Government's overseas aid policy to see why the Third World 's suspicion of Australia's international position is so justified. This policy typifies the Government's double standards. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has said that aid spending has been increased by 1 5 per cent in the Budget. What is the reality behind that statement? It is, of course, difficult to pick through the Treasury's clever accounting to get to the facts. But even on the figures for official development assistance it is clear that the whole truth is not being told. In the 1975-76 Budget we allocated $3 76.9m for official development assistance. The Government's expenditure cutbacks on 20 May meant that expenditure for 1975-76 was reduced to $346m. 
It was this reduced expenditure figure, when contrasted with the 1976-77 Budget allocation, that was the basis of the Government's false claim of a 1 5 per cent increase in development aid. In actual fact it would have needed to allocate $422. 1m to maintain the level of official development assistance in real terms. So the 1976-77 Budget allocation implies a reduction of 5.6 per cent in real terms for official development assistance. In short, the Government expects to spend 0.49 per cent of gross national product on official development assistance. By the Government's own figures- I refer to Budget Paper No. 8, page 8- in 1975 the spending on overseas aid was 0.61 per cent of gross national product. These figures tell the true story of this Government 's duplicity. These figures reveal the difference between the Fraser Government's policies and the policies of the Labor Government, particularly on the Third World. 
The Fraser Government has eroded Australia's new-found standing with the majority of mankind- and that is those people living in the Third World. East Timor is another illustration of its duplicity. The Government, especially the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  has made much of its high-sounding principles in this chamber. But what is behind these declarations of principle? It is a sordid betrayal of a gallant people for misguided so-called strategic interests. The Government, we are told, had held firmly to a 4 points policy on East Timor. Yet its policy was in reality a secret policy- secretly ignoring its public position. Regrettably, it appears that the United States of America is a strong, if secret, supporter of Indonesia's brutal and illegal annexation of East Timor. It feels that the freedom of 600 000 Timorese should be sacrificed for the strategic advantage of unhindered access to Indonesian Straits for United States submarines travelling from Pacific bases to their proposed Indian Ocean bases. Our Government has been an accomplice in this United States policy. 
The Government has been guided on the question of Timor by a non-public clique of bureaucrats. These bureaucrats have been very busy trying to prepare Australian public opinion for the betrayal of the East Timorese people's future. We have seen leaks planted in the media that the Portuguese Government was about to recognise the Indonesian attempted annexation of the Republic of East Timor. We see that the appeasing Australian Government meekly accepts that we cannot insist upon the International Red Cross relief operations. We have to direct our relief efforts through the Indonesian Red Cross. We have to ignore the fact that the Indonesian Red Cross has had a blatantly partisan role in East Timor. The mass of East Timorese who need aid will not get any real aid from the Indonesian Red Cross, and the Fraser Government will not protest. It ignores our moral obligations to the East Timorese people. 
Publicly the Government has said that it is maintaining pressure on Indonesia to allow an internationally supervised act of selfdetermination in East Timor. Privately Foreign Affairs bureaucrats leak to the Press a story that the Prime Minister will recognise the Indonesian annexation of East Timor. These bureaucrats are trying to manoeuvre the Government into abandonment of Australian principles. The Government is bowing to the pressure for the sake of so-called good relations with Indonesia. The Australian people have good relations with the Indonesian people. We supported their struggle for national independence just as we support the East Timorese in achieving self-determination and independence. It is shameful that the Government now chooses to contradict its publicly stated principles and that it collaborates with the Indonesian generals' unprovoked aggression against the people of East Timor. I was a prisoner of war in East Timor during World War II. I know the debt we owe to East Timor. It is about time the Australian Government honoured its obligation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Construction. He will be aware that for the month of August new private dwelling approvals fell by 4.4 per cent, total approvals fell by 1 7 per cent, and other building approvals- for example, factories, offices, schools and hospitals- - fell by 8 per cent in seasonally adjusted terms. Will the Government take corrective action not only to stimulate this ailing industry but also to prevent a renewed recession, especially in New South Wales? 
It is my intention to address my remarks to the estimates of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In particular I want to refer to the Government's population policy and its announced intention to bring 70 000 new immigrants to Australia when our already high unemployment rate continues to rise. The Government's statement on population policy is yet another example of its complete confusion about its priorities and objectives. The unemployment figure in this country today is 328 000, seasonally adjusted, yet it is the objective of this Government to bring a further 70 000 people here this year and thus increase the number of unemployed. 
I do not want to spread gloom but that unemployment figure of 328 000, seasonally adjusted, could quite reasonably be expected to rise to between 400 000 and 500 000 by February and March next year. I am talking about our economy and that of the whole of the Western World. Our manufacturing industries are operating at between 60 per cent and 75 per cent of capacity. In other words our economy is not running at its full rate. It is lagging and is very hesitant. It is lacking confidence. This is so not only in this country but also in the whole non-communist world. Here industry is only partially used. Yet we have a program under which we intend to increase immigration this year to 70 000 people. At the same time, this Government has cut back on urban improvement which is something which would improve the quality of life of the great bulk of working people in this country. It has cut back on public works so that we cannot catch up with the service backlog in our cities. It has cut back on any improved sewerage proposals, on improved housing, particularly in the public sector, in improvements to urban public transport, health services, real value in education and in environmental and cultural services within our community. That is the policy of the present Government yet it talks about increasing immigration. 
The situation is that during the 23 years from 1949 the immigration intake continued at a rate around 2 per cent. At one point, the actual rate was 1.9 per cent. The average growth rate for those 23 years of Liberal-National Country Party Government was something like 1.1 per cent in natural population and 0.8 per cent in immigration population. If the Government had continued with that population growth until the turn of the century we would have had a population of about 22 million to 23 million people. In October 1972 the former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  when introducing the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill to the House estimated that there would be a population of some 22 million people by the year 2000. The fact is that under the conservative forces of this country, between 1949 and 1972, 70 per cent of the immigration increase in the population of this country settled in the cities and urban communities of Sydney and Melbourne. As a result the urban problems created in those areas were of such a proportion that for that reason alone the Australian Labor Party was swept into power in 1 972. Our vote in those cities increased in 1974. 1 predict that in 1978, because of the worsening conditions of urban services within Sydney and Melbourne, a Labor government will be returned to power again by those communities. 
The situation is that if we increase the population as proposed the magnitude of pressure on services in Sydney and Melbourne will increase. I ask whether the Government will be able to continue that program. Already it has destroyed a selected decentralisation policy which was carried out by the Labor Government. It has destroyed the rational development of urban programs for Sydney and Melbourne. The situation is that had the Government continued with the policy as proposed by the former conservative government by the year 2000 there would have been an increase of 9 million in the population. That would take the population from 13 million now to 22 million. That was the figure proposed by the then Prime Minister  Mr McMahon.  That proposition is still put forward by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who is at the table. He not only supports a proposition for an increased immigration program but also he supports a program of increased natural birth. 
If the Government continued on that road and assuming that it continued to accept the Labor Party program of decentralisation, then the situation would be that we could equal the decentralisation program of Great Britain between 1945 and 1970. It has the greatest decentralisation program of any country in the non-communist world. If we were able to increase our decentralisation program between now and the year 2000 so that it was similar to the program carried out in Great Britain we would bring about a decentralisation program which would involve one million people in our selected growth centres. I put forward that proposition- I hope my colleagues will agree with me- because if we were able to decentralise one million people the other 8 million to 9 million people would have to be absorbed in the major capital cities of Sydney and Melbourne. Such a program would be chaotic because over-centralisation which continued for so long under the 23 years of former conservative governments would magnify the situation of appalling living conditions in the urban communities of both Sydney and Melbourne. 
We propose a slowing down of the population. We believe that we should slow down to at least 1.1 per cent population program. Instead of having a population of 22 million to 23 million people by the year 2000 we would have a population of about 17.5 million people. If we could absorb within our decentralised communities one million people we would be able to rationally absorb into our major capital cities the remaining 3.5 million people. If one looks at the Borrie report one sees the rational proposition that by natural growth alone the population of Australia would be 16 million by the year 2000. By making a rational decision in relation to our immigration program we would then be able to look at a population of something like 17.5 million by the year 2000. In the Australian Labor Party we believe, on humane grounds, in family reunions and of migration from such areas as Lebanon and Chile. There are human problems. Those people should be allowed into this country. A rational program should be allowed. Immigration to this country should be allowed on the basis of family reunions and from such countries as Lebanon and Chile. 
The Prime Minister will be aware that during the Second World War the island of Timor was occupied by Japanese military forces. The people on the western end of the island collaborated with the Japanese and at times handed over our troops to the Japanese. He will also will be aware that on the eastern end of the island the East Timorese protected and defended our servicemen. They suffered brutalities and death at the hands of the Japanese because of their loyalty to our Australian troops. I ask the Prime Minister: Is it his intention on his visit to Indonesia to sell out the gallant people of East Timor by recognising the military takeover of East Timor by Indonesian military forces? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that there is pressure within the Government for major modification of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act because of pressure from the mining and woodchip industries? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Are there any plans for joint Australian-Indonesian military exercises in Indonesia this year? If there are, does the Minister think that such exercises are appropriate at this time when Indonesia is condemned in the world forum as a military aggressor for its military takeover of East Timor? 
-My contribution to this grievance debate relates to the Indonesian invasion of East Timor. The trip of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to Jakarta can be described only as a tragic example of appeasement- perhaps the greatest act of appeasement to another country by Australia since the days when Australia's foreign policy was determined in the United Kingdom. Appeasing the Indonesian generals is the objective of the Fraser Government. In doing this it is prepared to ignore the feeling of the East Timorese, a large number of democratically-minded Australians and the vast body of world opinion. 
There is no escaping the conclusion that the Prime Minister should not go to Indonesia while Indonesian troops are continuing the brutal occupation of East Timor. There should be no meeting of heads of state whilst the East Timorese are suffering at the hands of the most murderous invasion of recent times. Some estimates state that over 60 000 East Timorese have been slaughtered already. Six Australian journalists were murdered by the troops of the Republic of Indonesia. How much more suffering has to be undergone by a people in order to make the Fraser Government listen and to stand up for the rights of a people so near our shores to self-determination free from interference? How much does it take for the Fraser Government to listen to the cry for help of the East Timorese? When will this Government take note of world opinion on this blackest, anti-democratic action which was accompanied by deceit, lies and deception? 
These questions have been blatantly ignored by the cold, hard, insensitive motivations of the Government and its handful of shadowy advisers. Appeasement rivalling Munich is the only way in which to describe the political action of the Prime Minister in scurrying off to Jakarta. He certainly is the Indonesian generals' man and in the comfort of Jakarta the tragedy of East Timor can be schemed away. This latest episode of appeasement is only a further step in a series  of  actions by this Government in denying any assistance to the East Timorese. They are recorded in history. The closure of the Darwin radio link on 26 February 1 976 was perhaps the first sign of this Government's desire to placate Indonesia. This was a deliberate attempt to cut off the independence movement in East Timor from the outside world and to scuttle the visit of the United Nations representative,  Mr WinspeareGiucciardi,  to East Timor. 
In April the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  visited Jakarta. He returned in forced glory heralding his own skills in conveying Australia's position to the Indonesian generals. He told the House that he put our position forcefully. We should ask: How forcefully? The 
Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  revealed in an interview the true nature of  Mr Peacock's  visit to Jakarta. In the Melbourne  Herald  on 2 1 September  Mr Malik  was quoted as saying that our Foreign Minister said: 
My position in the Parliament is like this and maybe,  Mr Malik,  you feel unhappy but I must wait. But in the long run we understand that this is the only way for Indonesia. 
Yes indeed, the Fraser Government has understood the invasion and murder in East Timor, just as it did in duping Australians into Vietnam. However, we did not have to wait long to see further examples of duplicity. The proposed humanitarian barge organised by church groups, trade unions and concerned individuals was told that it would be prevented from going to East Timor.  Mr Peacock  told us all that it would not be necessary as the International Red Cross would soon be returning to East Timor. What a sham! Still to this day only a brief visit to Dili has been made by the International Red Cross. Now we are to give aid to the Indonesian Red Cross. This contradicts one of the 4 points of this Government's policy on East Timor. It gives aid to a partisan organisation that has aided and abetted the invasion. This aid in fact will assist the invading troops and no one else. 
In the last few days we have witnessed the high points of duplicity of this Government. They also highlight the underlying weakness of this Government in placating the repressive Indonesian regime. In all 3 major international issues involving Indonesia in the last 15 years the Liberal-National Country Party coalition has played an essentially weak and subservient role- during the confrontation with Malaysia, the takeover of West Papua New Guinea and the invasion of East Timor. 
What of the future? Which other areas need Indonesian volunteers to shape their future? Weakness is the essence of appeasement. It is also accompanied by an unprincipled world view on events around us. The seizure of the radio link is the expression of appeasement to the Indonesian generals. There is no doubt in my mind that this action was taken following the conveyance of orders from Jakarta. The Fraser Government is once again eagerly assisting the Indonesians in the strangulation of the East Timorese. 
Why is all of this occurring now? In my view it is to prevent the United Nations from hearing the voices of independence from East Timor and to make it easier for the Prime Minister to recognise the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. Perhaps the real nature of these latest events lies in the words of the Leader of the 
Government in this House, the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  In the House on 5 October in reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  he stated: 
On other occasions in this place the Labor Party has supported the idea of Australia in some way actively participating in support of insurgents- in the past in Africa and now apparently in a neighbouring country. 

 Mr Sinclair was replying to a question on East Timor. He pulled the veil of deception away. The seizure of the radio was a deliberate step in the move to recognise the Indonesian takeover of East Timor.  His  words 'in support of insurgents' can only imply this. Many Liberal Party members have sadly admitted as much. We are told and they are told and argue that this is inevitable, that we must recognise the Indonesian takeover of East Timor. I say that that is wrong. We cannot and must not accept the situation. We cannot and must not let down the East Timorese people who have asked Australia for assistance. Yes, they have asked for our assistance just as we asked for their assistance during the Second World War. It is about time that honourable members in the House recognised that it was the East Timorese people who defended our troops. Many of these people were slaughtered by the Japanese because of their loyalty to the Australians who were fighting in the mountains of East Timor for so many years during the Second World War. The radio link was a small measure of our support for these people. Surely we cannot desert them now. This trip to Jakarta by the Prime Minister bears a striking resemblance to the appeasement of Hitler by Neville Chamberlain. It is nothing short of a weak placating of the repressive, aggressive and expansionist Jakarta generals. One can only ask: What paper will the Prime Minister sign? Will it be a further step in recognising the tragic and illegal Indonesian incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia? I hope that my remarks will bring some truth at last to the Australian people. 
-The subjective and negative attitude of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  towards Whitlamism is regrettable. He has taken out of context the position of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in regard to local government. I was the Minister for Urban and Regional Development under the honourable member for Werriwa. Clearly, there is no argument that he tried to extend the national government's power on many issues in regard to the matter of urban and regional development, which deals with the real issues of local government- the grass roots of politics- there is no greater regionalist or no parliamentarian who has made a greater contribution towards assisting local government or who has worked towards achieving that end than the honourable member for Werriwa. That has been the position in the 18 years in which I have been a member of this Parliament. One has only to read the recommendations of the Constitutional Review Committee on regionalism to see the stand which he took. There was a unanimous decision by all members of the Committee which comprised representatives from both sides of the chamber. When the honourable member for Werriwa was a young member of Parliament he made a contribution to that committee on the role of regionalism. Contrary to the accusation of the honourable member for Sturt in regard to the power of local government, the honourable member for Werriwa probably worked harder over the years than any other member of this Parliament to try to give greater powers to local government- at the grass roots level. It is about time honourable members opposite understood the situation. 
The honourable member for Sturt talked about federalism. One only has to look at the situation to know that to return to the new federalism is to return to those miserable years from 1949-1972. Because of the increase in interest rates the internal debt of the Commonwealth increased between 1950 and 1970 by a little over 50 per cent. The debt of the States increased 7-fold. The debt of local government increased by 2000 per cent. The debt of semi-government authorities increased by 2800 per cent. Local government and semi-government authorities are the grass roots of government. This is the type of government to which the honourable member for Sturt wants to return under the new federalism. 
The Opposition will not oppose the second reading of the Bill but will move amendments as at the committee stage. We will move to amend some machinery provisions which will ensure fairer representation for local government. Our approach does not mean an unqualified approval of this measure- far from it. In our view, the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations is no more than a gimmick. It does nothing to come to grips with the basic problem of making our Federal system work. It creates an aloof advisory body, far removed from the grass roots level at which the 3 tiers of government should join together in co-operative programs. We want to see our Australian, State and local government public servants working together in a spirit of co-operation. This is the way to break down the barriers of distrust that have been built up over the years. I saw the distrust. The Department of Urban and Regional Development saw it. We tried to build a basis on which to break down the distrust that existed between State and local government. I have stood on a platform, when I was Minister, and challenged Premiers to say that there was no confrontation between State or local government bodies. Even Premier Hamer, on the same platform, agreed. We worked across the board with all States, irrespective of the political persuasion of their governments, to build a basis of co-operation. The only way to solve the problem of federalism is for the 3 tiers to work together and to break down the distrust between public servants at all levels. When one starts to get that trust, as the Whitlam Labor Government did, one starts to get to work. Honourable members opposite know of the spirit of co-operation which prevailed at that time on the matter of urban and regional development. 
The chances are that this Council will be another impotent structure divorced from the day to day problems of making our complex federal structure work. Despite the basic flaws in the structure and the composition of this body, and the blatant gimmickery which inspired its creation, the Opposition is prepared to give it a chance. There is just a chance that it may be of some use and may foster a measure of cooperation between some elements of the federal system. Even if this happens, it is impossible to see much benefit filtering through the federal channels to the community groups which should be the point of delivery for all government programs. On the face of it, the Council is doomed before it is even formed. The Premier of Queensland has issued one of his edicts rubbishing the Council and rejecting any co-operation with or participation by his staff. This gives the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  just a taste of the obstruction and lack of cooperation which the previous Government suffered at the hands of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  The bluster and obstruction by the Queensland Premier cost his State in many programs, not only in the urban and regional development field but also in other fields. We broke through in many of them. In many fields it cost Queensland tens of millions of dollars which lowered the living standards of the people of Queensland. These programs would have reduced the heavy unemployment now afflicting Queensland.  Mr Bjelke-  Petersen can no longer knock back spending programs on the most narrow and bigoted grounds. He can assert his independence by refusing to co-operate with the Council, but this toothless paper tiger will not be able to do too much. Apparently he has adopted this stance because he is having a row with some of his councils over electricity undertakings. He feels threatened because, he claims, these councils want to bypass him and go straight to the Advisory Council. He cannot have read the terms of the legislation if he sees the Advisory Council as any threat to the State's powers. Faced with this puny Advisory Council, the Queensland Premier was able to record this protest at the Premiers Conference: 
I have received a letter from the Lord Mayor in a capital city saying that he wants a particular matter to be decided not by the Minister for Local Government but by this Advisory Council. I am deeply concerned that we will reach a situation where these matters will be taken out of the hands of governments and directed to the Advisory Council. 
He asked: 
Where do we go from there? 
We might echo the Queensland Premier and ask: Where does Australian federalism go from here?' If it is not possible to get off the ground a simple Advisory Council, with a few functions and no sanctions, without this sort of wrangling, what chance does the Government have of making its new federalism work? If a State government feels threatened by the mere thought of a council writing to an Advisory Council based in another State, what will happen when the States feel the fangs of the Fraser Government's double taxation proposals? This is an important side of the new federalism. With the best will in the world, it must be said that this Advisory Council, which the Government has made the cornerstone of its federalism policy, has got off to a bad start. 
Turning to the structure of this Council, it has gone through a number of formats since it was first mooted. In many ways the structure before the House is the best that could have been devised. It is at least pleasing that the Government has rejected the proposal to include only 3 local government representatives. This number has been increased to six but much of the force of this change has been dimmed by the failure to give each State a guaranteed local government representative. This is bad in principle. With only 3 local government representatives a gross imbalance of representation could not have been avoided. Three States certainly would have misrepresentation; very likely four of the 6 States would have missed out. The wisdom of Solomon could not have devised a system which would have selected 3 local government representatives from the whole of Australia in a way that was even remotely fair. 
Local government has made great progress in recent years but we are still a long way from the Utopian state where it is truly a national institution. There are more than 900 local government authorities throughout Australia and the diversity of interest from unit to unit in each State is quite staggering. Even a single representative from each State would face a mammoth task in putting a viewpoint acceptable to the range of local government within its own borders. The task is multiplied a hundredfold if selection of local government representatives is undertaken without regard to State representation. Much as I subscribe to a wider viewpoint in government I am realistic enough to accept that disregarding State differences in nominating local government representatives just will not work. For this reason we urge the Government to revise its approach and to write into the legislation the principle that each State should have its own local government representative elected from its local government organ. 
The Prime Minister said in his second reading speech that so far as is practicable the 6 local government members should be persons associated with local government in different States. This imposes an intolerable burden on the Council of Local Government Associations in choosing its nominees. Stipulating that each State should be represented will not solve this problem but it would remove the risk of the total absence of representation of local government bodies within the State. We submit that this is the fairest approach. 
The 'little brother' status of local government emerges again in the sharp clamp put- on its powers to initiate approaches to the Council. In essence there are only 2 ways of getting business before the Council. The Premiers Conference may refer matters directly to the Council or a majority of the governments represented on the Council may agree to refer matters to it. This means that three of the State governments, with the support of the Australian Government, can refer items to the Council. Without Federal support it will be necessary for four of the States to join together in getting matters before the Council. It is just not possible to see the Council drumming up much business with this framework of reference. The Premiers Conference simply is not geared to select and analyse items for the Council. In the next few years the Premiers Conference will be fully occupied in sorting out the debris of Fraser 's new federalism. Its focus will be almost solely on tax sharing and the relative shares of each system of government. There will be little interest at this level in the theoretical side of inter-governmental relations. I have no doubt that there will be occasional references to the Council from the Premiers Conference but I cannot see them as being significant. 
The honourable member for Denison, who interjects, is a babe in the woods. Premiers Conferences are concerned about financial issues and not major ideological change. In the main these references will be designed to move items of dispute over detail off the floor of the conference. Nor is there much chance of important issues moving up to the Council from the grass roots of local government and community groups. I have referred to the problem of getting a majority of the 6 participating governments to agree on a reference. The only access for local government to this Council is through a State Premier. This was described by the Prime Minister in these terms: 
Local government, through their State Premiers will be able to have matters brought to the Premiers Conference for reference to the Council for examination and report. 
We have seen the reaction of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to this sort of approach from local government. The mere suggestion of a local government unit making an approach to the Council was enough to make him scrap all participation by his State. Access by local government might have been slightly better if the coalition parties had backed the Labor Party's efforts to secure local government participation on the Loan Council. This recognition of the key role of local government would have given local government a greater voice in the determination of national policy. It would have lifted the status of local government and forced the Premiers to take note of its voice. This opportunity was missed and the inclusion of greater local government representation on this Council is no substitute. 
In the light of these problems of reference it is difficult to see the Advisory Council playing a role of any real substance. Creation of the Council is an attempt to transfer an American structure to the peculiar complexities of Australian government and Australian federalism. The Prime Minister says that the model has worked well in America. This may be the case but it is no guarantee that such a body can make any really effective contribution to Australian federalism. A point that should be noted is that it will be several years before the Council can produce work of any value. There is the real danger that there will be duplication of work which has been done much more effectively by other agencies. The Prime Minister made no reference to the relationship between the work of the Council and the Centre for Intergovernmental Studies at the Australian National University. This centre has produced a wide range of relevant work in the past few years; it has built up a vast amount of expertise in this area. It has also been given strong measures of financial assistance by the Australian Government. Yet it was ignored in the statement by the Prime Minister. With all respect to the resources of Hobart, quite clearly it cannot match this expertise. 
There are other aspects of intergovernmental relations which have been thoroughly researched in recent years. One example is the work on regions which was undertaken by the Coombs royal commission and which is fully documented in the report brought forward by Nugget Coombs. In many ways this is the most visionary part of the Coombs report. The Government also has at its disposal the report on local government finances which was undertaken as a co-operative effort by the Federal and State governments. This is by far the most detailed and constructive report available on this topic. There is also the valuable work done in the first half of last year by the Whitlam Cabinet committee on Australia/State relations. Some very valuable research was conducted during the short life of that committee. Much of it was at a relatively early stage but it pointed the way to the main problems we are facing. There is also the ground work done on co-operative arrangements between the Federal and State governments. This followed a decision taken by the Premiers Conference last year. Initial meetings of State and Federal officials were held to begin the process of seeing where the 2 levels of government could work effectively in a co-operative way. 
These things are only part of the stock of research material on intergovernment relations and the possible initiatives that can be undertaken without wasting time in more studies. It will be many years before this Advisory Council gets under way. The only way in which local government can get a fair go is to make sure that we work at all levels of government. In the area improvement program which occurred in only 13 regions in Australia we saw the Australian and State governments and local governments working together in a spirit of co-operation. Most of this stemmed from the grass roots level. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  because I think it is important that the representatives of local government should be able to bring matters before the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations. After all, we are talking about people at the grass roots level of government, and unless the representatives at this level of government are able to bring matters before the Council, the Council will not really do its job. The only way in which we can assist this governmental problem is to try to get a real understanding of the problem at all levels of government. At present the difficulties facing State governments in Australia can be put before Premiers Conferences. Under the present proposal matters can be put before this Council only by the Premiers Conference or by a majority of the governments involved. The governments involved in the Council are designated in clause 5 (2) of the Bill. Those governments will be the Commonwealth Government and the governments of the participating States. I suppose sub-clause (2) of clause 5 was drafted in the belief that not all States would participate in the Council. Already Queensland has dissociated itself from the Council. Therefore, representation on the Council will be the same as that at the Premiers Conference, except that Queensland will not be one of the participating States on the Council. 
There may be a desire for a discussion of, for instance, the Grants Commission. From the 1930s the Grants Commission has dealt with the question of lack of equality among the States. An amendment was passed by the Whitlam Labor Government enabling it to allow for the differences between regions- in other words, to look into the areas governed by local government bodies. We set up the machinery to enable the Grants Commission to look at these matters. 
We found that in having these matters looked at we have drawn together an expertise in the field of local government which is unequalled in this country. Local government was able to come before the Grants Commission and put its case to the Commissioners. It was able to show the grave inequalities that existed. 
Why have members of the National Country Party of Australia not criticised this proposition? Because the Grants Commission, under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, found that there were graver inequalities in relation to the rural areas. In the first year of the Grants Commission's activities in this sphere it was shown that for every $2.50 per person made available to urban councils, $6.50 per person was made available to rural councils. But by the time of the introduction of the last Budget- the Hayden Budget- in which $79.9m- an increase of 40 per cent over the previous year- was made available the contribution had increased to $3 a head for urban councils and $10 a head for rural councils. Those are matters that were brought forward at the time. 
I should say that  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, who was brought to the Grants Commission from the Supreme Court of New South Wales, is an expert in land valuations. He probably has had more experience on land tenure and land valuations than any other member of the judiciary in the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia. Not only did we do that but we also brought people from local government to sit on the Commission and to work with the Commission. We engaged people with a business background, we sought people from the universities and we involved people from the State government administrations. So we had all levels of government represented on the Grants Commission and we had people with university and business backgrounds. This body had such expertise that it was in fact a body which was respected at all levels. 
What has the present Government done? It has limited the power and involvement of the Austraiian Grants Commission in relation to local government. In fact, there is now going to be very little intercourse between the Grants Commission as set up by the Whitlam Labor Government and local government. The present Government has asked the States to set up 6 State Grants Commissions. It is a Government which has said that it does not want to extend the bureaucracy; yet in this respect it has extended the bureaucracy a great deal. The sad thing about this matter is that the expertise that was gained by the Grants Commission under the previous Australian Government's administration  may be no longer taken advantage of. These days it is extremely difficult to get such expertise and it is very difficult to duplicate efficient organisations such as the Australian Grants Commission. The Australian Grants Commission has in fact built up a great deal of information and knowledge that is not available to the States grants commissions. It would be practically impossible for any of the State governments to gain the enormous amount of expertise and goodwill that was gained by the Austraiian Grants Commission. 
I believe that local government should be able to bring matters before the Council for debate. That is one of the reasons why we should support this amendment. The local government representatives should be able to recommend matters to be brought before this Council. There are other aspects that these local government representatives might want to have discussed. In this respect I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a document entitled 'Table 99- Summary of Commonwealth Government Payments to or for Local Government Authorities', which appears at page 123 of Budget Paper No. 7. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="101131197610074_58_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="101131197610074_59_1.jpg"></graphic>

If a table such as that were brought before such a Council it would be possible to explode the myth that is being put about by the present Government that the allocation to local government in this year's budget is an increase of 75 per cent. The Government says that the allocation to local government has increased from the Labor Government's allocation of $79.9m in 1975-76 to the allocation of $140m this year. As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  was able to point out to honourable members earlier today, if one looks at the bottom of the table one will find that the final amount for 1976-77 is $ 195.2m whereas the total amount for 1975-76 was $274.2m. In other words there has actually been a decrease of about 28 per cent this year in the allocation to local government. It is at Council meetings that matters such as this- financial matters, structural matters and matters concerning the grave problems that the rural and urban councils are experiencing- could be brought foward by local government. It is only the local government aldermen at the grass roots level who understand the problems. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I do so on the basic principle that it represents a more democratic approach. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has accused members of the Labor Party of being centralist. I point out in answer to that charge of centralism in regard to local government that I have been able to demonstrate that probably no other member of Parliament has had as great an association with local government and has fought for local government and for regionalism more than the Leader of the Opposition. Yet the Government and its supporters still make the irresponsible charge that we are centralist where urban and local and regional affairs are concerned. That is a lie. 
By having a democratic approach to this matter it can be taken back to the rank and file, to the grass roots of local government elections, and this will give this proposed body greater strength. If all the aldermen and councillors within each respective State make a decision as to who should represent that State on this Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations, this may give strength to that body. It certainly will give strength to local government. For the love of 
Pete I cannot really understand why the Government refuses this proposition. 
The present national local government association is a respected body but to some extent at this stage it is a very loose body. It is still in the stage of development; it has not got the complete unanimity of local government behind it. We would like to see it get a lot more muscle and would like to give it more encouragement. Nobody has given it more encouragement than we on this side of the chamber. The Leader of the Opposition and I have had a long association with local government. The Leader of the Opposition has been involved with local government for much longer than I or any other member of this House, although the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  sprouted about the Leader of the Opposition not knowing this association. We know its personalities. In fact, some of the people who play leading roles in local government were seconded from that association by us to the former Department of Urban and Regional Development. Some of them worked on a contract basis with our administration for a period of time so that we would have the knowledge of their expertise and background of local government in order that an Australian government department could understand the in depth problems of local government. 
The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition represents common sense. If all the aldermen and councillors within a respective State select their representative on this Advisory Council this must have greater moral support from local government than if that person were appointed by a body in Canberra. 
There is another difficult matter that this Advisory Council would have to determine. It is said that wherever practicable its members should come from each State. That was spelt out by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his second reading speech. What will be the position of the State of Queensland? Already the Queensland Premier has stated clearly that his Government will not participate in this Council. We know that local government, as it is at present, really was the creature of the State, although there have been a few breakthroughs. Earlier today the Leader of the Opposition told us of the constitutional decision about the Australian Assistance Plan programs. A constitutional challenge was brought by certain States and the High Court of Australia ruled that the Australian Government could make direct grants to local government. There are other precedents and illustrations to show that we are coming out of the dim dark ages and that local government is being recognised as a level of government and that it is not completely a creature of the States. I believe that this amendment represents a rational request. The Leader of the Opposition has put forward a rational amendment and it should be accepted. It gives the direct lie to those who put forward the proposition that with respect to local government our government was a centralist government. 
As far as we are concerned local government never got a better deal in its life than when the Whitlam Labor Government came into office and we were able to put our policy into effect. We were able to point out earlier in the Committee stage how much local government has received. This year it has received 28 per cent less than it received last year. Surely there is enough evidence of this. All we are asking the Government is to give the right to local government aldermen at their local grass roots level to have a say in the matter of electing their representative on their Council. If this Council is to be any real forum then the Government certainly should allow local government aldermen in Sydney, in Dubbo, in Broken Hill and in all the rural areas to have the right to determine whom they should elect to represent New South Wales on the Council. 
The same thing should happen in Tasmania. No centralist body in Canberra should determine who should represent Tasmania. The aldermen in Tasmania are the ones who should determine who will be their representative. Let us wipe away the hypocrisy which exists. Let us determine this matter in a democratic way. I ask the Committee to support the rational and democratic proposition which has been put forward by the Leader of the Opposition. 
-We are debating a censure motion against the Fraser Government. It reads: 
That this House expresses its want of confidence in the Fraser Government because it cannot pursue and express a coherent and principled foreign policy. 
It is quite unusual for an Opposition in this House to have to initiate a debate on foreign policy. During the period of nearly 20 years that I have been a member of this Parliament generally conservative governments have tried to initiate debates on foreign policy in this House. But we know that, besides its economic policy, the Achilles heel of the Fraser Government is its foreign policy. Whenever the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  travels overseas disaster follows. The Prime Minister has tried to change this question from one of policy to one of personality. He keeps quoting matters about the Leader of the Opposition on East Timor. He refers to statements made by  Mr Gregory  Clark and to a statement supposed to have been made by Michael Richardson. I have been in this House for nearly 2 decades, and whether honourable members opposite agree or disagree with my policies, I have stood firmly by any decision that I have taken on a principle; I have not twisted and turned and I have not made statements or scored off untruths. 
I nail again- as I have nailed it in this Parliament previously- the accusations made by the Prime Minister regarding the notes of conversations at a meeting between General Suharto and the then Prime Minister in 1974. The Prime Minister knows that those accusations are false. I can say clearly to honourable members that I have seen the notes of conversations at the meeting between General Suharto and the then Prime 
Minister in 1974, and the accusations made by the present Prime Minister are completely false. The Prime Minister also says, in order to try to create a division between my leader and myself, that the Leader of the Opposition was pushed into this debate. I say clearly that this censure motion was the initiative of the Leader of the Opposition with the full support of the Parliamentary Party executive but it was his idea and his thrust, and of course he led for the Opposition in the debate. 
The Prime Minister tries to label the Australian Labor Party. He says that the view of the Labor Party is shared by the Soviet Union. It was not the Labor Party which tried to initiate the regional pact with the Soviet Union; a conservative government put forward that proposal in 1968. It was then an anti-Chinese approach. The great fear at that time by the conservatives was the downward thrust of China. As regards the Labor Party's policy on the Indian Ocean, we want to see a neutral zone- a zone of peace- in the Indian Ocean. We do not want to see a build-up of the great powers in the area. The statements made by the Prime Minister are completely wrong. The Prime Minister constantly quotes old North Atlantic Treaty Organisation communiques in an attempt to bolster his false assessment of the Soviet threat in the Indian Ocean. The fact is that the NATO communiques do not mention the Indian Ocean. I challenge the Prime Minister to read us a NATO communique which describes the Soviet Navy as a threat in the Indian Ocean. 
Australia today is facing a crisis of leadership. The Prime Minister with his succession of foreign affairs blunders and ineptitude is providing the world with a ludicrous image of Australia. His indiscretions in China, his hawkish view on the Indian Ocean and now the Jakarta follies have discredited Australia in the eyes of the world. There is no escaping this plain, simple fact. In his efforts to appease the generals in Jakarta he has made Australia look two-faced, deceptive and insensitive to the suffering of 600 000 East Timorese. By doing this he has scarred the clear conscience of many thousands of Australians. Can Australia feel any sense of pride in our defence of political and social freedom in the world today? Surely the answer, following this latest tragic series of blunders, is no. 
Again I must stress the facts that have accumulated over the period while the Fraser Government has been in office. On 2 occasions the radio links with East Timor have been terminated by the Prime Minister to appease the generals. This was a blatant attempt to prevent the East Timorese case from being heard. Whilst the war has continued defence aid from Australia to Indonesia has been increased. No doubt some of it has been used against the East Timorese. The humanitarian aid ship from Australia was obstructed and virtually prevented from providing necessary aid to the suffering people of East Timor. The catalogue of appeasement and obstruction has continued unabated. The Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)-  one could be excused for believing that in reality it was the Prime Minister for he is really our Foreign Ministerinexcusably failed to mention East Timor in his recent speech to the United Nations. What an exercise in cynicism! What an exercise in attempting to water down the world 's hostility to the brutal military invasion of East Timor. How did Australia look in the eyes of the world? There was a war less than 500 miles from Australia, in respect of which there has been substantial division in Australia, and it failed to rate even a mention in a speech by our Foreign Minister to the United Nations. What a farce! Whom does the Foreign Minister think he is kidding? 
This Saturday, 16 October, is the first anniversary of one of the blackest days in our history. On 16 October 1975, 5 Australian journalists who were bravely communicating to the world news of the Indonesian secret war in East Timor were murdered. The Government throughout 1976 has been negligent in its responsibilities to the Australian people in not pursuing the full facts surrounding the tragic deaths of these 5 Australian journalists. Despite overwhelming evidence of Indonesian complicity in their murder, no forthright statements have been made. Further- and more damaging to this cynical Government- the Prime Minister was in Jakarta less than one week before the anniversary of the deaths of these 5 Australian journalists. 
Did the Prime Minister raise the matter? Did he state to the Indonesian  President  the belief of most Australians that they were murdered by Indonesian troops? Did he protest at this inevitable conclusion drawn from all the evidence gathered in relation to this murder in Balibo? We can only have the deepest concern that he did not. Certainly the communique signed by the Prime Minister and the presiding General in Jakarta failed even to mention this vital, tragic and contentious issue. Expediency mounted the platform in Jakarta. Once again the Prime Minister has let down the Australian people in his unprincipled fumble towards appeasement. 
Even if this list of commissions and omissions by the Fraser Government were to end there we would have no room for a sense of well-being, a belief that we have tried our best to assist the East Timorese people, for the visit of the Prime Minister and his servant to Jakarta can only astonish the sensibilities of even the most resigned of us. Prior to leaving Australia a tight-lipped Prime Minister tried desperately on several occasions to avoid answering questions concerning the East Timorese issue. Typical of his attitude was his answer to a question by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  when he said: 
As I have said on a number of occasions, the policy in relation to Timor has been stated very clearly and unequivocally by the Foreign Minister. 
Steadfastly he has repeated that over and over again. The Foreign Minister has echoed him on this matter. The so-called 4-point policy of this Government was not repeated in the Indonesian Parliament nor in the communique; rather the Indonesian and Australian people were told that we must now Mook to the future '. What does that mean? What it really means is that we have lifted up the corner of the carpet to try to hide the dirt from sight. The reality of this classic case of short-sightedness was repeated by LieutenantGeneral Sudharmono on 1 1 October when he said that the Prime Minister's visit had led to the justifiable belief that  de facto  recognition had been given to Indonesia's occupation of East Timor. The Lieutenant-General said: 

 Mr Fraser's statement has very great importance for us. It implies that Australia has recognised the integration of East Timor into Indonesia. 
It is fortunate that these foreign policy doubledealings of the Fraser Administration have been revealed in unexpected and unusual ways. We all remember well the China dialogue. It shows the grave danger to Australia of the foreign and perhaps domestic policy of this Prime Minister. On the one hand he expresses in private meetings points of view which clash with his public utterances. In the case of East Timor it is impossible to deny that the contradiction between private scheming and public pronouncement has reached epidemic proportions. This contrast is nowhere more clearly felt than in relation to East Timor, for, whilst this private scheming and appeasement of the Jakarta generals continues, thousands of innocent people in East Timor are suffering and dying. No greater act of callousness can be found in Australia's recent history. Yet the Prime Minister's duplicity and deception has continued and most likely will continue. 
What is left of the so-called 4-point East Timor policy that the Foreign Minister stated earlier this year? The Prime Minister has not publicly reiterated the first 3 points to the Indonesian Parliament or to General Suharto. The communique says only: 
The Prime Minister recalled that Australian policy on the East Timor question had been clearly set out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Parliament 
What sort of explanation is that? What a convenient usage of words. The inescapable conclusion is that the Prime Minister has sold out the East Timorese people and the conscience and integrity of all Australians. 
What has the Prime Minister achieved out of the latest foreign policy blunder? He has encouraged the extremist elements of the Indonesian generals to proceed with military aggression. Indonesia's Lieutenant-General Sudharmono has pulled the rug from underneath the Prime Minister and has shown all Australians the deception that is implicit in the Prime Minister's actions in Indonesia. The appeasement we have witnessed is the more disastrous when we look at the long-term crises of Indonesia and the region. The $10 billion Pertamina loss, the increasing political repression in Indonesia and the accompanying poverty and exploitation will have wide-ranging effects on the social, economic and political fabric of Indonesia. The separatist wars waged by movements in West Irian, the Moluccas, Kalimantan and Sumatra are certain to create instability for the Javanese-based ruling military regime in Indonesia. Further, what will the people of Papua New Guinea think of this sell out, especially when it has come about so readily and has been accompanied by a script of deception that could almost have been written by the Jakarta generals themselves? 
We note that the fourth point of providing aid to the East Timorese people throught the International Red Cross already has been dropped altogether. Rather we have given $80,000 to the Indonesian Red Cross, which has already broken Red Cross undertakings that aid should be provided to all sides in the conflict. The Indonesian Red Cross is a partisan in the struggle in East Timor. If aid is to be given to the East Timorese people it should be given to both sides- to those areas controlled by the Fretilin forces as well as to those areas controlled by the Indonesian generals. What have we as a nation to gain by so easily forgetting our principles in East Timor? How will future generations of the diverse peoples in our region consider this tragic episode of appeasement? The answer is clearly that all Australians have lost. We have seen how the Fraser Government can so easily forget principle and be so subservient to a repressive militarist government. One can only fear the consequences in the long term of this weakness and appeasement. 
Since returning the Prime Minister has only added to our consternation. Hidden away amongst the vague words of this secretive man is an occasional glimpse of his future actions. He has already obeyed the request of the generals to close the Fretilin radio. What of the other important element of the generals' request? On  AM.  this morning the Prime Minister was asked the following question: 
Would you be happy to see a limiting of the activities of Fretilin people in Australia? 
The Prime Minister answered: 
I think I have already made it quite plain in Parliament that the Government does not believe that it is appropriate activity for people to use Australian soil to help cause difficulties in other areas. 
It is here that I believe the deceptive policies of the Prime Minister are fully revealed. It is evident that he believes that the activities of the East Timorese independence movement in Australia is causing 'disruption'. After all, what did the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair),  who is to speak next, say in replying to a question asked of him last week? He called the East Timorese people insurgents. It that is not a recognition of the military takeover by the Indonesian generals of East Timor I do not know what is. How can the Prime Minister hold that attitude if he does not recognise the Indonesian armed takeover? Can he really believe that the putting of the East Timorese case for self determination before the Australian people is a disruption unless he has in fact recognised the illegal incorporation? Surely not. All fair minded Australians will bitterly resist the latest attempt by the Prime Minister to further seal off East Timor from the rest of the world. 
I think we have again to ask ourselves why the East Timorese people should remain independent. They should remain independent because, they want independence and their background is different from that of other Indonesian people. For over 400 years they have had a different cultural background. They were led into the Christian faith and have been a part of that culture for hundreds of years. Indonesia is a Moslem country. We owe them a great debt because in the Second World War their forces stood by us. The island of Timor was divided in two. What did the people on the western end of the island of Timor, now Indonesian Timor, do when one of our men, a prisoner of war, was able to escape from a prison camp, or when one of our men evaded capture? They handed him over because they collaborated with the Japanese. But that was not the situation on the eastern end of the island. The people living in the eastern end of the island defended our forces. Some 50 000 East Timorese perished in defence of our servicemen, directly and indirectly, out of a population of about 600 000. Yet during the entire Second World War Australia lost only about 26 000 men from our military forces. 
That shows the debt that Australia owes to the East Timorese and they have been sold out callously by this Government and by this Prime Minister in particular. On the one hand this Government has a private policy and on the other it has a public policy. So far as I am concerned, this Government as a whole, and the Prime Minister in particular, stand condemned for their callous policy on East Timor and for their blundering at large in foreign affairs as a whole. 
-I ask the Treasurer whether it is a fact that the Budget strategy was to encourage massive foreign investment in the mining sector. Is it a fact that foreigners are reluctant to invest at present due to an uncertain future? Is it a fact that this uncertainty is in part caused by large international cash transfers by foreign based firms operating in Australia? If this is the position, what is the Government's proposed action to overcome the problem? 
My question, which is directed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, is the same as the question asked by the honourable member for Bonython of the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact, as reported, that Indonesia has reinforced its armed forces in East Timor this month? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. As the Minister for Defence told the Opposition Whip that his question was one for the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and as the latter failed to answer the question when I put it to him, I now ask the Prime Minister: Has Indonesia reinforced and strengthened its military forces in East Timor as is publicly reported? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer the Treasurer to his comments at the  Financial Times  seminar in Sydney yesterday in which he admitted that the employment market is sluggish, that retail sales remain relatively flat and that there is an uneven pattern reflected in indices of industrial production. I ask: Is it true that he also stated that the facts would not be inconsistent with the Government's strategy? In view of the fact that his Budget calculations assumed a projected real growth rate of 4 per cent, which industries does he now expect to contribute most to this growth process? 
-This is the first time we have discussed the Estimates of the new Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. The backbone of that Department is the previous Department of Urban and Regional Development. When it was first amalgamated with the Department of Environment and also with the recreation section of the previous Department of Tourism and Recreation I thought it was a forward move by the Government. Environmental matters have an interrelationship with urban and regional development because everything is connected to everything else. In other words, there is so much interconnection that it is necessary to have an overall planning organisation. When one looks at the Department in a deeper context one notes that there are grave weaknesses in it. Formerly the Department of Urban and Regional Development was not only a major co-ordinator in urban affairs; basically it was set up to look at the economy, not with a broad brush approach or a macro-approach, as the economists say, but in a detailed way. There was the microapproach. In the years that the Labor Government was in office we drew up a budget for urban and regional development, one of the most important documents of that time. We were able to show within the Budget context where the money within our urban community was being invested. That concept has been diminished in the new Department because some of the great economists who were making a real contribution to this nation have left the Australian Public Service and have transferred overseas. One man in particular,  Dr Michael  Keating, was an outstanding public servant. He has gone back to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Paris. The Labor Government had brought him to this country to work in this very important Department. 
The sad thing about this Department is that it has no major say in economic priorities. Its Minister is not even on the Cabinet's economic committee. For a department to be involved in the whole matter of urban development and investment in urban affairs and yet have no say in the investment priorities is utter foolishness. It is the Government's priorities which determine those things. Another grave weakness arose in the setting up of this new Department. In its last 6 months the Whitlam Government took the property section from the old Department of Administrative Services and placed it with the former Department of Urban and Regional Development. Another aspect which should be mentioned is that the new Department does not have the same influence on roads policy, particularly in urban and regional affairs, or on transport policy. If major cities are to be planned there has to be a consideration of its impact on land use, transport use and property use. 
For too long the Commonwealth has been building projects such as the Spring Street development in Melbourne and the Phillip Street development in Sydney. If the people working in those buildings want to do any shopping, even though they are near the heart of the city they have to walk half a mile or a mile to make any purchases. They work in isolated boxes of granite, glass and tile, right away from real living. The Department of Urban and Regional Development, together with the property section of the Department of Administrative Services, discussed the location of office developments with its State counterparts. Such liaison is very important in the development of a city. For example, we were able to discuss with the planning authorities in New South Wales and Victoria the location of Commonwealth employees and so assist in the planning and development of Sydney and Melbourne. Through discussions in Sydney, instead of developing the Wooloomooloo site near the central business district, we were able to plan the first development at Parramatta and other developments were to follow at a later date at places like Penrith, Liverpool and Campbelltown. In Melbourne we entered into discussions with officers of the Hamer Government and were able to discuss with them the placement of 18 000 Commonwealth public servants out of the central business district to such areas at Watsonia-Epping, the Dandenongs, Broadmeadow and Sunshine. This planning would have achieved 2 things: It would have taken the pressure off the central business districts and in both Sydney and Melbourne it would have located office buildings and job opportunities in areas which needed greater opportunities. 
If employment opportunities are to increase they will increase in the white collar industries and the tertiary industries and not in the blue collar industries. The blue collar industries are not growth industries. We wanted to plan our metropolises, particularly the major metropolises of Sydney and Melbourne, which had created so much havoc over the years. This would have affected our transport system as the road and rail services would have had to have been upgraded. For example, let us consider the situation in Sydney, which stretches 20 miles north, 20 miles south, 35 miles west and 35 miles south-west. As most of the people work in or near the central business district, most of the transport in the morning goes out of the central business district empty and the transport that comes in again at the peak period is packed to the hilt with workers. The reverse situation occurs in the evening. Therefore, no matter how much the urban public transport systems are upgraded, those systems cannot be made efficient. 
It is a matter of planning. At the same time, development has to occur in the right areas. That is why we created sub-metropolitan centres in the areas that I have mentioned. For example, job opportunities that could be created in Parramatta would mean that people would not have to move each morning into the central business district but would move from west of and east of Parramatta to Parramatta. All the people would not be going in one direction in the morning on the transport service; people would be travelling in both directions. 
This was our rational solution but regrettably that has now gone by the board. The real muscle, the real pressure and the real drive on economic issues- the real resource allocation issues- have been taken away from this new Department. It is now a powder puff department and has no real authority. Even the Minister who administers it, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  is a junior Minister who is not even a member of the Cabinet and consequently not on the Cabinet Economic Committee. It is with great regret that that brave and wonderful body of public servants, those bright young men who came in to do so much to try to brush away the social inequalities of our urban communities, have been sold out completely by this Government. This Government has withdrawn completely from urban and regional development. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I refer the Treasurer to an answer he gave me last Wednesday in response to a question without notice. I ask: Of the $7,000m of investment intended by companies or processed by the Foreign Investment Review Board since December 1975, what proportion will actually eventuate? When will the facts regarding these investments be announced? What proportion of these projects will be financed by new capital inflow and what by reinvestment of retained profits? 
My question is directed to the Foreign Minister. In view of the statements by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers.  indicating that the Government has not changed its position relating to East Timor, will the 4 March 1976 policy be clearly restated at the United Nations General Assembly debate on East Timor and will Australia vote in support of those principles? Further, will the Australian Government publicly correct the misrepresentation of Australia's position by the Indonesian Government officials at the United Nations? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. On receiving the Fox report on the Ranger inquiry into uranium mining will the Prime Minister give an undertaking that the 
Government will make no decision on mining and export of Australian uranium until there has been a widespread public debate on the issue in accordance with Commissioner Fox's statement that the findings should be used as a startingpoint for a public debate, not as a final decision on the matter? 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that: 
the total amount appropriated under the Bill is insufficient; 
the distribution as between the various States does not recognise the resource capabilities in the various States, and 
it does not pay due regard to the nature and extent of the welfare housing needs as between the various States'. 
The Australian Labor Party does not intend to delay the flow of the much needed funds being appropriated by this Bill. They are funds that are needed to help some of the less well off in the community to obtain access to minimum housing requirements. But the Australian Labor Party does intend to demonstrate that the Government's proposals for allocating welfare housing funds are inadequate. We will demonstrate that these proposals ignore the nature of the real problems facing the less privileged in their desire to achieve the fundamental right to proper living quarters. It also ignores the economic problems confronting the housing industry. 
The amount appropriated by this Bill is totally inadequate. It is exactly the same amount as has passed to the States for the provision of welfare housing in each of the last 2 years. This allocation makes no allowances for the increased cost of housing over the same period. In the last 2 years the cost of housing has risen by around 35 per cent. The cost of a land and house package has increased in the same period by a slightly higher rate- about 38 per cent. This means that to produce today the same number of houses for low income tenants as was produced in 1974-75 we would need to be appropriating about $500m this year. The current level of expenditure is intolerable to anyone who is concerned with the basic rights of the people within this income group. 
The Labor Party recognises that access to proper housing is the right of all people. We regarded housing as a proper concern of a national Government and we did not wash our hands of this responsibility to the people. We gave housing its rightful place in public sector expenditure. In the first year of the Labor Government we allocated $2 18m to welfare housing. I might also say that we provided a much improved Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. That was so just on the basis of interest alone. In the last year of the McMahon Government the long term bond rate was used and a special subsidy, a rebate system, was applied to the very poor. The long term bond rate is now something like 9.5 per cent or 10 per cent. The Labor Government made that money available at 4 per cent. This was an enormous subsidy in our new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement The Labor Government made $2 18m available in its first year whilst the McMahon Government made only $169m available in its last year. In the 1974-75 financial year we increased the amount to $385m. I would point out that $10m of that was made available in the last month of that financial year and that money was spent in the 1 975-76 income year when we also made available $364. 6m. It meant, when the figures are averaged that approximately $375m was made available. 
While in 1975-76 we did hold the amount at the same level as that for 1 974-75 we did so because we thought there may be pressure on the private dwelling sector in the second half of 1975-76. It was thought that there would be an improvement in the private housing sector in the second half of that year, and although there were signs of an upward move, the sustained increase did not occur. We recognised that there was still a great deal of unused resources available, particularly in New South Wales and Queensland. I can state quite clearly that a Labor Government would have taken positive action to absorb those unused resources. We had agreed that if the overall situation had not improved in the second half of the financial year we would increase the allocation for welfare housing to those States where there were large resource surpluses. The former Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  would confirm that strategy and that proposal. 
The provision of funds for welfare housing was one of the Labor Government's major achievements in changing the resource allocation in our economy. We also realised that the building and construction industry plays a crucial role in the Australian economy. Traditionally this industry leads the cyclical movement in our economy. It employs directly and indirectly about 18 per cent of our work force. Nearly one in every five of the work force relies on this industry for their livelihood. The Labor Party realises that while an industry as large and as important as this one is depressed no genuine or sustained recovery can occur. There can be no doubt that if the Labor Party was in office today the funds being appropriated in this Bill would be much larger. This would have been done in a way which would not have added to inflation. Public expenditure does not add to inflation if the money is available and if it does not lead to competition for scarce resources. There can be no doubt that money is available. There is no doubt that unused resources are available. There is no doubt that there is a large unemployed force of workers available. It would be a matter of rearranging priorities. Greater public benefit would have resulted, in both human and economic terms, if the revenue forgone by the abolition of the coal export levy had been used to provide more homes and to boost the housing industry in the depressed States of New South Wales and Queensland. 
There can be no doubt that the resources, both physical and material, to build more homes exist in both New South Wales and Queensland. By allocating more housing funds to both those States thousands of jobs would have been created. Thousands of people normally employed in the industry in those States would be back at work. This would have had a multiplier effect. The housing sector has a multiplier effect on the economies of the States. In New South Wales in particular it would lead to a boost in consumer confidence as the fear of future unemployment was slowly removed from the community. It also would mean that skilled tradesmen would return to the industry. Skilled tradesmen will be lost to the industry forever if unemployment in the industry continues at the current high rate. Does the Government not realise that there are definite benefits to be gained for the industry, the economy and the community by gaining stability in this industry? This stability can be achieved only by ensuring that we have an adequate, stable and secure resource base. In this context the physical resource question is the more important. I have no doubt that the material resource capabilities of the industry are adequate in the medium and long terms but I doubt whether we will have enough people with the special skills and knowledge required unless we create more jobs now. 
This Government has not considered these aspects in drawing up its economic strategy. This Government is once again using inhuman and crude macro-economic demand management techniques. This is a narrow and short-sighted approach which ignores the underlying problems in our economy. Let us look quickly at the nature of the problems facing the industry as a whole and the housing sector in particular. In Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania the housing industry is now fully extended. There are shortages of labour and small delays in the delivery of materials. Yet the Australian Government deliberately aggravates the problem in Western Australia and Tasmania by increasing the amounts given to those States for welfare housing, thereby adding further to the strains on the dwelling sector in those States. 
In New South Wales, one of the two key States in the nation's economy, the situation is very different. Unemployment in the industry and future prospects are poor. Over 9 per cent of the work force in that State normally employed in the industry is now out of work yet this is ignored by this Government. There has been no increased allocation for welfare housing in that State which needs industry assistance, needs more employment opportunities and needs more welfare housing. In June this year 32 393 families were on the Housing Commission waiting list in New South Wales. The normal waiting period for a 3-bedroom dwelling is 45 months- nearly 4 years- while in Western Australia only 14 437 families are waiting and the waiting period averages 30 months for a 3-bedroom home. It can be as short as 18 months in some cases. Is this an example of concerned human economic management? I argue that it is not. I think if honourable members look at the allocation of moneys by this Government not only for housing but in the sewerage programs they will find that Western Australia has fared well as against New South Wales. One of the underlying reasons for that situation is that a State election is coming up in Western Australia. Therefore, people of the same political complexion have had to manipulate the figures to help their colleagues. We have to take this into consideration. While I am on the subject of waiting lists and the waiting period for the average size home, let me spell out the true situation as at the end of last financial year.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek permission to have a table showing the number on waiting lists for accommodation and the periods in relation to the State housing authorities, incorporated in  Hansard. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister and preface it by referring to an earlier question seeking a wide public debate on the mining and export of uranium before a Government decision is made. Now that the Fox Commission has recommended such a public debate, will the Prime Minister give a firm assurance that a wide public debate will take place before any Government decision is made to mine or export Australia's uranium? 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. In his speech to the London  Financial Times  seminar he said that the current Government program of borrowing overseas was partly designed to bridge the gap until private capital inflow revives. In view of the reported reluctance of foreign investors to respond to the Budget enticements, how long can the Government go on bridging the gap in this way? 
-I preface my question to the Foreign Minister by pointing out that the Minister would be aware that the United Nations General Assembly commenced a debate on East Timor on Tuesday of this week at which the Portuguese delegate stated that Portugal does not recognise Indonesia's takeover of East Timor and that it called upon the United Nations to adhere to the principles it expressed in a resolution earlier this year. Further, the Minister would be aware of a current resolution on East Timor sponsored by Mozambique and several other countries declaring support for East Timorese self-determination. I ask the Minister What is the Australian Government's attitude to this resolution? Further, is it a fact that Australia is working with Indonesia, Japan and the United States of America to formulate a softer line in the United Nations on the Indonesian invasion of East Timor? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has a special task force been established under the Permanent Heads Committee, servicing the Economic Committee of Cabinet, to set out uranium mining and export policy? Which departments are represented on this task force? Is it a fact that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development is not represented on this Committee and is not being consulted? Is it also true that this task force has been directed to report to Cabinet today? 
-The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  was born into privilege, lives in privilege and he shows in his voice and his whole manner that this privilege involves the 'we were born to rule' mentality. He talked about regions. On this question, the boundaries were the responsibility of the then Minister for Urban and Regional Development, as I was, and we set up those regions in cooperation and after discussion with our State colleagues. To completely nail the untruth of this privileged man, the honourable member for La Trobe, in Victoria where a conservative government reigned under  Mr Hamer  as the Premier and  Mr Hunt  as the responsible Minister, in rural areas we accepted exactly the regions set up by that State. The same occurred in New South Wales under the Askin Liberal Conservative Government. So much for the so-called regions that were determined by us. They were determined by conservative State governments and we accept their boundaries and worked together in co-operation. I have said time and time again that we should work in co-operation with State Governments because I believe that the only way in which to solve the problems of local government is to work in a spirit of co-operation between the Australian, State and local governments and at the public servant level as well, and not in the way in which this Government is working- by keeping departments and governments in separate boxes. So I want to nail once and for all this spurious argument of these privileged young men on the back benches who do not understand the real feelings of the people. 
I support the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  that these Bills be withdrawn and redrafted. I intend to direct most of my remarks in this debate to the local government aspects of these 2 Bills. At the outset let me say that the Federal Labor Party is reviewing its policies and we feel that our new policies will have wide acceptance and be more farsighted than anything seen in this country before. We will draw on our experience in government. I do not think we can lay down firm policies but from our experience we would like to see programs and policies evolve after broad discussions at all levels of Government. Because of the problems facing local government in its attempts to deal with the grass roots problems facing our community, we believe that any basis for general revenue sharing should be reviewed over a 3 to 5-year period. It is only by continual review and updating of principles that we can come to grips with the problems facing local government. 
This assistance which I am proposing began under the Whitlam Labor Government and would be channelled via a modified Australian Grants Commission to local government throughout Australia. It would be used to assist in providing adequate levels of community services, to promote the meeting of community needs on an equitable basis and to provide an easing of the pressure borne by local government through its share of the national debt burden and its requirement to continually raise rates to provide the basic services to our society. 
This is not to say that a Labor government would not support a  per capita  basis for sharing its income with local government but, unlike the current Government, we recognise that  per capita  grants are not the answer to the problems of local government. The fiscal equalisation principles of the Australian Grants Commission that operated under the Australian Labor Government should still play the major part in revenue sharing mechanisms established by future Labor governments. The current minimum  per capita  sharing basis which is embodied in this legislation is full of danger for the more needy local government authorities. It is my understanding that 80 per cent of the money allocated to the Western Australian Government has been distributed amongst local government authorities on a  per capita  basis. The Western Australian Government has paid no attention whatever to the fiscal equalisation principles that the majority of local government bodies in Australia desire. A  per capita  grant should be given to all councils. We accept that this was a weakness in our Grants Commission legislation. So let there be no doubt about it. We are examining the mistakes we made in our efforts to develop new policies. 
The percentage of the total allocation to be distributed on a  per capita  basis will be determined only after discussion involving federal, state and local governments together with the Australian Grants Commission. Having accepted that mistakes were made, we still contend that the majority of aid paid to local government should be on a needs basis. In adopting such a course a federal Labor government would actively pursue in co-operation with the States and local government organisations and associations the promotion of efficiency and rationalisation of local government services. In determining the level of general revenue sharing assistance we would ensure that this occurred only after consultation with State authorities, public hearings and published criteria and data. In addition to general revenue sharing mechanisms, a federal Labor government would make a significant amount of funds available to local government by reviewed, rationalised and flexible special purpose grants. This system of specific purpose grants affecting local government would express the Labor Party's national concern for basic community standards. It would demonstrate our sense of responsibility and our priorities. 
We would encourage innovation and rationalisation to foster efficiency. We would provide means by which the 3 levels of government might co-operate in a shared responsibility. We are moving to the view that these special purpose grants would be in the form of a block grant with general guidelines agreed upon by the other two levels of government. By these procedures we would try to achieve a balance between prevention, remedy, innovation and maintenance. It would also provide research and evaluation techniques to all levels of government. These are just a few of the thoughts we have. It is an integral part of our philosophy that local government be given a recognised place in the federal system. It is something for which we have fought in the past and for which we will fight in the future. Apart from a firmly recognised place within the federal system of government, we feel that local government should be treated as a meaningful partner in the federal system. 
It should have an equal status in necessary areas with both the Commonwealth and State governments. This Government does not even pay lip service to these principles. It refuses to give local government the right to bring matters before the Advisory Council for Intergovernmental Relations. It denigrated the role of local government in the recent Constitutional Convention. In saying this, the Opposition recognises that there needs to be a positive program of improvement and reform of the interests of local government. It is a matter that we in the Australian Labor Party have under active consideration. 
The Bills before the House contain further examples of how the Fraser Government allows ideology to interfere with common sense. The Bill dealing with local government is the worst example of this. As it now stands, it is in direct conflict with State legislation. Yet the States enacted their legislation to establish grants commissions only after the April Premiers Conference in accordance with what they were told at that Conference. These grants commissions were to form an integral part of the federalism policy of the Fraser Government, a policy which is now universally recognised as a sham or, should I say, a thimble and pea trick. The Fraser Government's argument in asking the States to establish these bodies was that this role was not a proper function of the Australian Government. In other words, no Australian Government should be involved in allocating general revenue sharing assistance to local government. This was considered by the Government to be a function that properly lay with the States. It was just one more example of the Fraser Government washing its hands of any real involvement in the day to day lives of the people. 
It seems that this Government is determined to return us to the past. We are seeing an attempt to freeze the future pattern of Federal relations into the pattern of the sterile years of 1949 to 1972, an era when the internal debt burden of local government increased by some 2000 per cent. 
The debt burden of semi-government authorities, which include the sewerage authorities, rose by some 2800 per cent. 
-What is wrong is that in that period the debt burden of the Commonwealth increased by only 55 per cent. There is no recognition of the basic fact that the federalism policy will work only if the 3 levels of governmentfederal, State and local- co-operate and work together collectively. By that I mean that the interrelationship should be among the 3 levels of government at the Public Service level. Instead, the misplaced ideology of this Government forces it to attempt to put the 3 levels of government into separate compartments. This attempt will fail as it has failed before. 
If the Federal Government actively involves itself in programs affecting people at the community level, the federal system can work. But it will not work if the Federal Government refuses to soil its hands with problems at the local level. The removal of the Australian Grants Commission from the area of local government finance is a tragedy. The Labor Government drew on the unique experience of 40 years of the Grants Commission in the process of equalisation of financial assistance to help local government. Its expertise and experience were made available to more than 900 local government authorities throughout Australia. The purpose of this program was to assist the poorer shires and councils whose facilities and services were lagging behind. It was a fiscal equalisation or topping up process. 
Undoubtedly, there were defects in the process but the overwhelming majority of councils accepted the Grants Commission and welcomed the substantial assistance it provided. It should be placed on record that the skills, techniques and expertise built up by the Grants Commission were not only attained during the 40-year period in which it evolved but were also developed enormously during the 3 years of the Whitlam Labor Government. The tragedy is that the expertise developed is not now being made available to or utilised for local government. The Grants Commission drew expertise from people with wide experience and from all levels of government. I doubt whether the States grants commissions will be able to provide a similar service, based on this skill and experience. Skilled people with this specialisation are scarce in this country and the setting up of State grants commissions will be a multiplication by 6 times, which is contrary to the so-called policy of not expanding the bureaucracy. By taking this course the Government is further expanding the bureaucracy. 
Superficially, local government appears to be better off with the $l40m provided in the 1976-77 financial year under the new formula. This appears to be substantially more than the $79.9m provided under the last equalisation program of the Labor Government. But if we examine this figure closely it emerges quite plainly that local government will be much worse off. For a start, there is a split-up between per capita grants and equalisation grants. This means that the principle of equalisation, of giving more assistance to the needy shires and councils, has been given a lower priority than under the Labor Government. In fact, if one examines the facts to local government- and this is shown in the Budget documents- the actual total allocation to local government this year is 30 per cent less than it was in the last year of the Whitlam Labor Government. 
Another future disadvantage for local government is that, like the States, its revenues will be threatened by attacks on the income tax collection basis of their revenue allocations. This will be seen in the application of tax indexation which substantially reduces the value of personal income tax as a growth tax. The States have sought assurances that their new growth tax will not be eroded by inflation. Without direct access to the Commonwealth, local government may not be in a position to press for the same assurances. Even Liberal Premiers like  Mr Hamer  and  Sir Charles  Court have joined their colleagues in other States in expressing concern about the implications of the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill. The proposed power of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to levy further income tax disguised as a surcharge- and, therefore, not part of the base figure for calculation of entitlements- is a further threat to local government revenues. This is only one reflection of the basic problems with these Bills and the philosophy behind them. That is, they are not federalist at all. They are centralist disguised as the new federalism. 
I suspect that the policies of the Government have been motivated mainly by an obsessive desire to destroy all achievements of the Labor Government. The Labor Government's system of co-operative federalism, with its emphasis on the 3 levels of government acting together as equals, is the latest target of this obsession. Local government is becoming aware of what little regard is paid to it by the conservatives in this Parliament and elsewhere. They first saw signs of this when the conservatives prevented the Commonwealth Government from giving direct grants to local government in the 1974 referendum. They saw it again when the conservatives prevented local government from being represented at the Constitutional Convention. Massive reductions in section 96 specific purpose grants to the States and local government in the Budget is further evidence. This Government and many of its supporters accused the Labor Government of controlling State and local government decisions by use of section 96 provisions. In many areas of government this was simply not true. In areas such as the area improvement program, urban roads programs and environmental programs- just to name a few- the tied grants appropriated for these pro- grams were tied only after full discussions with local government, the community and State governments. We worked together. In fact, if one looks at the area improvement program one finds that these programs grew from the cooperation and involvement of local governments. In those areas local government, in fact, initiated these programs. It was only with the cooperation of the Federal and State governments that these programs were brought to life. The only way in which we will really attain successful federalism is by making sure that the 3 levels of government work together in a spirit of cooperation. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. By way of preface, I refer the Prime Minister to the weekly broadcast which he gave last Sunday. He said: 
As to the uranium question, there has already been many opportunities for all interested groups within the community to put their views. 
I ask the Prime Minister In view of the contradiction between his views and the final recommendation of the Fox report which calls for further debate on the uranium issue before any decision is made, is there any significance in his meeting  Mr Justice  Fox in his office this morning. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I draw his attention to the last report of the Commissioner of Taxation which indicates that of the 200 000 companies which made out taxation returns, 0.2 per cent shared SO per cent of the profit of all companies. With those figures available, how can the Treasurer call this a small business economy? 
-If we believed that the Fraser Government had a genuine commitment to the protection of the environment the Labor Party would applaud the amendment proposed by this Bill. The amendment to the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 contained in this Bill while simple could in the hands of a committed government ensure the protection of many of our endangered species and our threatened wilderness areas and provide much needed recreational and national parks. While the Government amends this Act in what could be a meaningful way it has, by its actions in the related areas that measure a government's commitment to the environment, shown a lack of awareness. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  went to great pains in his second reading speech to demonstrate his Government's commitment to the environment. I dispute this. 
The Australian environment is under attack. It is under attack because of this Government's desire for uncontrolled growth- growth in migration, growth in mining, growth in woodchip and wood pulping, and growth in the lack of awareness of people who little understand the delicate nature and fabric of our environment. The installation of the Fraser Government last November meant a return to growth for growth's sake and the bulldozer mentality which highlighted the 23 years of the previous conservative governments. It meant a return to the philosophy which led the Hope Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate in its report to the Whitlam Labor Government to say: 
The Australian Government has inherited a National Estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. All previous priorities accepted at various levels of government and authority have been directed by a concept that uncontrolled development, economic growth, and 'progress', and the encouragement of private as against pub- he interest in land use, use of waters, and indeed in every part of the National Estate was paramount. 
This report confirmed that the Whitlam Labor Government was the first government to make a genuine commitment to the charting of the National Estate and conserving our environment for the Australians of the future. We acted on these recommendations. We were not a government with a bulldozer mentality. Our 1972 election policy proved this, as did our actions in government. We had a mandate to protect the environment. We set out to do that. We established the Hope Committee. We enacted complementary and supplementary pieces of legislation and we appropriated funds all to protect the environment. 
The highlight of our environmental legislation was the Australian Heritage Commission Act. This Act embodied the major recommendations of the Hope Committee report. It supplemented the working of other Acts of the Labor Government including the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act, the Great Barrier 
Reef Marine Park Act and the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act. All of these Acts complemented the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act which set out the broad framework into which many of the Labor Government's programs fitted. All of these legislative commitments were supported by action- action in appropriating funds for projects worthy of our environmental goals. 
Unlike this Government we gave a high priority to the matters that affect the environment. Despite the claims of this Government to the contrary, nobody believes that it is genuinely committed to the protection of the environment. This Government asked us all to believe that it is giving the environment a high priority because it has made appointments to the Australian Heritage Commission, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and the National Parks and Wildlife Service. The Government may have made appointments, but concerned Australians are not comforted by this. They know that those bodies can function only in an administrative sense. They know that the Government has provided no funds or taken no action to allow these bodies to function properly. The people know that no new projects are being funded under the National Estate program. They know that only projects commenced under Labor and not completed are being funded. The people now know that no action has been taken to proclaim Kakadu and Gudgenby as national parks. The people know that no action has been taken to protect the marine environment. The people know that this Government is not committed to the protection of the environment. The Government has taken no action to introduce the Environment Protection (Marine) Bill drawn up by the Labor Government. This should be done as a matter of urgency. 
The Australian Government controls all seas and submerged lands surrounding Australia. It has a duty to protect them from pollution and exploitation, yet it refuses to take positive action. This is just one more example of its lack of environmental commitment. It is further seen in the Government's stated intention to give the States the administration of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) legislation, its lack of commitment to the built environment, its refusal to fund nature conservation organisations on a non-matching grants basis if funded at all and its abolition of the public environment awareness program. The Government's lack of commitment to the environment protection legislation has been highlighted in several ways. The first was the unilateral announcement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  of the approval for Concorde flights to and from Australia. Not only was this decision a clear breach of the legislation, but also it shows a complete disregard that powerful elements of the current Government have for environmental considerations. 
The same elements in the Government have been trying to exempt all the mining and woodchip proposals from the operation of the legislation. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is continuing his efforts to have woodchip proposals exempted from the operations of the environment protection legislation. The Harris-Daishowa company's exemption for extension of their export licence and operations at Eden is just one example. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  ignored the requirements of this legislation when he decided to proceed with an enlarged immigration program for this financial year. Another and more important example is the statement of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development immediately after the Fox report became public that the green light had been given for uranium mining to take place in this country. As the Minister responsible he should have been more concerned. The Minister based his statement on only the first 2 recommendations of the report- he ignored the other 14 recommendations.  His  colleague, the Minister for Transport, in his capacity as Acting Minister for National Resources, did exactly the same thing only last Thursday when he stated that uranium mining could now proceed. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his weekly broadcast on Sunday 7 November said: 
As to the uranium question, there has already been many opportunities for all interested groups within the community to put their views . . . 
But the best measure of the Government's commitment is the future of the environment protection legislation. The Minister has stated in this House that the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) legislation is under review. He said that this Government feels that legislation of this nature is more properly a role for State governments. It is not considered an appropriate role for a Federal government. In saying this, the Government is ignoring the fact that no State government in Australia has adequate legislation designed to protect the environment. Honourable members opposite ignore the fact that the 
State governments, unlike the Federal Government, have a basic conflict in regard to the protection of the environment. Of course, I am referring here to the conflict which the States, particularly the less populous States, have in regard to development and the protection of the environment. 
The position becomes obvious that this conflict is of the utmost importance when we look at the situation in Queensland and Western Australia. In Queensland there are only 6 people employed in the Co-ordinator General's Department with the responsibility under the State administrative arrangements to look at environmental questions arising from the development proposal. These people never get the chance to comment upon mining proposals because the Queensland Government feels that the environmental issues concerned can be looked after properly in Mining Warden's Courts. Officials of this court are not qualified to consider environmental matters. The situation is no different in Western Australia. In reality, none of the States are much better. The expertise of multi-disciplinary teams available to the Federal Government puts it in a much better situation than the States to conduct an impartial inquiry into the protection of the environment. I do not want to be elitist about this issue. I am just dealing with the facts of the issue which are that the Federal Government is better equipped and will look at the position in a much more impartial way. In addition, the Australian Government does not face the basic conflict that the' State governments face on the issues of development as opposed to the protection of the environment. The Federal Government can take a more unbiased view than the States on this matter. 
These are national questions. All Australians are affected by the decisions of this nature made in any of the Australian States. That the national government controls mineral export licensing through trade powers under the Constitution gives recognition of this pre-eminent national interest. Nobody should deny that. Honourable members opposite should not wash their hands of that responsibility. This function cannot be transferred. The Australian Government is the only government that can constitutionally prohibit exports. Apart from projects funded by federal funds or needing Federal Government approval, environmental impact statements can be sought only when application is made to obtain a licence to export prohibited products. Are we going to give this power to the States? Are we going to wash our hands of our responsibility? We should ask ourselves: Are we going to give responsibility to men like Joh Belke-Petersen the Premier of Queensland or Charlie Court, the Premier of Western Australia? These are enormous powers. These men have no real feeling for environmental questions. They are of the same political background and same political colour as these men who sit opposite. 
A further illustration of this Government's lack of commitment to the protection of the environment concerns the nature of their grants to conservation organisations. In the past these grants have been non-repayable and nonmatching. They were used for research and technical, administrative and information functions provided by various environmental action groups of this country. The Labor Government provided these grants in recognition of and support for the valuable work being done by the community action groups in defence of our environment. The Labor Government believed that the protection and improvement of the environment were issues which directly affected everyday life. We thought it appropriate and encouraging that so many voluntary groups were active. This action was considered appropriate by Labor because the Australian Government is prevented from acting on many aspects of the environment by constitutional limitations and by the reluctance and in some cases the refusal of our State counterparts to co-operate with us in these matters. I have mentioned 2 States in particularWestern Australia and Queenslandwhich have been very guilty in this regard. By making grants of this nature, the Labor Government sought to establish a permanent and growing network of action and information groups capable of influencing governmental and commercial impacts on the environment. We considered community participation in environmental decisions as essential. Broad based community participation in the fundamental decisions that affect all Australians is the basis of the Labor Party's philosophy. 
However, this Government has seen fit to abolish payments for research and technical assistance altogether and to provide funds only for conservation organisations on a matching basis- $2 from the Australian Government for every $1 raised by the conservation organisations. The Government claims that it has done this after consideration of advice received from the Australian Heritage Commission. It may have considered the advice but it did not accept the Heritage Commission's recommendations. In fact, the Government's proposals on this matter are the complete opposite to the Heritage Commission 's recommendations. In total, the 
Government has made available $391,500 to the various groups. This might appear generous but, in fact, it is less than the $450,000 appropriated last year. We have to bear in mind that we are dealing with at least a 12 per cent increase in costs this year due to inflation. Therefore, the organisations are in a much worse position than those figures reveal. 
We regarded our grants as essential for public awareness and for gathering information and helping local groups to present informed opinions. These grants were intended to encourage community group action and not to control these conservation groups. We regarded the grants as pioneering grants or seed money given to help the growth of community concern and activity for the protection of our environment. We would not have introduced matching grants for many years to come. Even then, some would have been matching grants and some would have been given free of strings to certain conservation groups. In many cases, we would not have introduced matching grants. We would never have forced environmental centres to close as this Government will force the environmental centres of certain areas to close. We must realise that matching grants favour the establishment. This Government is a great one for supporting establishments. The development of new groups will be limited by the matching grants approach. In effect, this provision prevents the emergence and development of new community movements. 
On the one hand, this Government gives extremely generous taxation concessions to the mining companies, concessions never paralleled in the history of this nation. On the other hand they are freezing the opposition, the only people who can put the people's point of view and who make the real effort in regard to the exploitation undertaken by these mining companies. That is the action of this Government. It is a case of supporting the very wealthy but keeping help away from those people who we should really involve and encourage. The Government is not encouraging people's participation in this delicate area of our people 's environment. This is our environment. It is nobody else's. An area of particular concern to me is the lack of this Government's commitment to the protection and enhancement of the built environment. We have seen this Government break down the programs introduced by the Labor Government which were intended to improve the quality of life and enhance the environment in our urban centres. The 2 most obvious examples are the Government 's virtual destruction of the Area 
Improvement Program and the decimation of the national sewerage program. 
-The Minister asks what the national sewerage program has to do with the matter. I wish that the Minister's officials in the corner would give him a little education on environmental questions. Of course the national sewerage program is important in this environmental question. I have said a lot in this Parliament in recent times about the Area Improvement Program and assistance to local government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Is the Minister raising a point of order? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has the rundown in Australia's overseas reserves in recent months- the situation is that we now have only enough reserves to finance 3 months of imports- been due to the Government's miscalculation in the Budget concerning foreign investment? Since tax concessions for foreign investors were a major factor causing the deficit contained in that Budget, will the Treasurer now agree that the Government's strategy has failed? What corrective action will be taken to combat the growing level of unemployment and the balance of payments problem? 
-This is the beginning of an era when new values will be set on our national heritage. Fraser Island not only is our heritage, it also belongs to the world heritage. I personally and my Party welcomes the Government's historic decision to cease mining operations on Fraser Island from 3 1 December this year. I want to state clearly how this inquiry began. The Commission of Inquiry was appointed on 12 July 1975 in pursuance of section 1 1 of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 to conduct an inquiry known as the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry: ... in respect of all of the environmental aspects of the making of decisions by or on behalf of the Australian (Commonwealth) Government in relation to the exportation from Australia of minerals (including minerals that have been subjected to processing or treatment) extracted or which may hereafter be extracted from Fraser Island in the State of Queensland. 
After a lengthy inquiry the Commission recommended: 
All exports of minerals (including minerals that have been subjected to processing or treatment) extracted or which may hereafter be extracted from Fraser Island be absolutely prohibited except for minerals extracted from below the mean high water mark on the eastern beach south of Indian Head. 
Appropriate economic and other assistance be given to the extent that adverse regional economic effects follow the implementation of recommendation 1. 
The whole of Fraser Island be recorded as part of the National Estate as soon as possible. 
These decisions are historic. They have wide ramifications and they will be expensive. The only decision I find a little disturbing is recommendation 2. 1 feel that the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  is rightly concerned. Politics are not involved here. I think all honourable members have to come together to give support to make sure that the affected workers and the region are not disadvantaged by this decision. But it must be recognised that this is not a decision just affecting the people in the Wide Bay area; it is not a decision just for environmentalists; it is a decision affecting the whole of the nation. Therefore the nation as a whole has to face the responsibility. The workers and the region involved have to receive special consideration. I believe the proposals put forward by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  concerning the workers and the region are not good enough. Much firmer decisions have to be made. 
I give an undertaking on behalf of the Labor Party that we will support a fair go for the workers and the people of the region of Wide Bay, irrespective of politics and irrespective of State issues. It is important that they get justice and that they should not have to pay for this momentous decision alone. As an environmentalist I say to other environmentalists that they should be working to make sure that the people and the workers of the area concerned are not disadvantaged in any way. If they are there may be a backlash against environmentalists. If the people, particularly the workers, and the companies concerned suffer a great deal, some repercussions will flow to the whole environmental situation. The Minister stated in regard to recommendation 3 of the report: 
The Commonwealth Government has also decided that Fraser Island will be recorded as part of the National Estate under the Australian Heritage Commission Act. This decision recognises the place of Fraser Island as part of our national and international heritage. 
As the Minister responsible for the Heritage Commission in the Labor Government and as a Minister responsible for the setting up of the inquiry into the National Estate I can say that we envisaged such a decision as this. I am pleased that this decision has been made. I know that sometimes decisions are hard and harsh but the fact is that this is an historic decision. 
I think the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  who spoke before me- honourable members opposite repeatedly interjected while he was speaking- is a man of human understanding. He struggled to set up the inquiry. He is to be commended on his early pioneering. We shared a joint responsibility. We applaud the decision because it was the Labor Government that started the whole momentum to bring about this decision. It is not a matter of sides. The precious gem of Fraser Island will now be preserved for all time not only for our national heritage but also as an international hertitage. 
I am pleased that positive measures have been taken to protect this unique island. I am pleased that Australians who are concerned with the environment and who have fought so hard to protect Fraser Island from the bulldozer mentality have at last had a major victory. Neither myself nor the Labor Party ever wants to see destruction to the environment similar to that which occurred with Lake Pedder. Whilst I find this decision commendable, I believe it is contrary to this Government's attitude to the protection of the environment. In the past year the Government has given no indication at all of any understandings of environmental issues. The Government has cut back drastically on all major environmental commitments. There is no financial commitment at all for new projects under the National Estate this year. My colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has stated that we have to make sure that the workers who are involved will be protected. Any protection of those workers will not be cheap. Therefore I hope there will be a financial commitment to this side environmental issue. This decision is that of a complex man. I refer to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I am aware that he has been convinced and that has been strong enough to make this decision to protect this precious gem of Fraser Island. There is no doubt that the Prime Minister is a complex man but he has shown strength in this decision. 
Generally the Government's attitude to the environment is contradictory. Generally this Government supports growth for growth's sake and exhibits a bulldozer mentality. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  expressed that point of view. In many ways I find the Government's decision on Fraser Island to be in complete contradiction to its other actions in government. For a short term economic purpose the Government reduced the amount appropriated for protection of the environment this year. It has downgraded the Australian Government's commitment to the National Estate. It worries me that this is just a sop to the environmental groups and concerned Australians. The Government may not have the same commitment to the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry chaired by  Mr Justice  Fox. Whilst I do not criticise the decision on Fraser Island- in fact I have said very clearly that I applaud it- from an environmental protection point of view I am worried by the way the Government intends to protect the displaced workers. Clearly this is a matter we have to look at. I think it is only marginally less important when a government decides to protect the environment that it should take definite action to protect the people in the area concerned. 
I want to spend the concluding moments of my speech in showing the contradictions of this Government. Is the same attitude going to be taken in regard to the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry? Will there be wide discussion and debate by the Australian people? We have tried to find out from the Prime Minister; we have tried to get some information out of the Government. Is it going to do as - 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that Australia's overseas reserves fell by $269m during October and that there was a net outflow of capital of $258m in that month? Was this the third consecutive month in which there was a net outflow of capital? Has private capital outflow for the last 3 months been $20m in August, $238m in September and $230m in October? Are Australia's reserves now sufficient to finance only 3 months of imports? If so, what does the Government intend to do to rectify this disaster? 
-The Labor Party supports this Bill but is concerned with several aspects implied by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech. We are concerned about the economic and environmental consequences of the continuation of agreements like this and we are concerned that the studies undertaken by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Forestry and Timber Bureau are not public and may have overlooked many important issues. We are concerned that this legislation has ignored the findings of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. We are concerned that this agreement will lead to a possible over-commitment to softwood and its products. We are concerned at the possible desecration of our native forests. We are concerned about the future of our flora and fauna in this country. We are concerned about the introduction and spread of exotic diseases. We are concerned that no research has been conducted into the long term hydrology, soil structure and nutrient values of soils subjected to monoculture forestry. We are concerned that clear felling and intensive forestry operations may destroy our watersheds. We are concerned about this Government's commitment to the environment. 
Our Party is concerned because in the early days of settlement Australia had a thick band of native forests running down the east coast. These forests stretched from the dense rain forests of Cape York through the red cedar forests of northern New South Wales to the magnificent 300 foot high eucalypts of Tasmania's Florentine Valley. In Western Australia dense karrimarri and jarrah-marri forests were a green enclave in a largely barren State. Their existence safeguarded the water supplies necessary for the development of the south-west. Now 200 years later much of these forests have been stripped in the process of settlement and the consequent development of agriculture. Today most of the remaining forested areas are threatened. They are threatened by rapid growth of the woodchippulpwood industry. They are threatened by the destruction of complex native forests ecosystems in order to establish fast-growing hardwood timber monocultures. They are threatened in varying degrees by softwood pine planting programs throughout Australia. 
This Bill is concerned with softwood pine planting programs. It is not concerned with the other closely related threats to our existing native forests. But because of the nature of the forestry industry in Australia and the uses to which forestry products are put, we cannot really look at each problem in isolation. There must be a commission of inquiry established under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act to review the entire forestry industry in Australia. There are too many questions that need to be answered, questions that we and others have raised already. In the 1960s clear felling was restricted to several regional areas supplying local pulpwood industries. In the 1960s there were 2 major changes in this pattern and clear felling became the rule rather than the exception. These changes now threaten the very existence of those substantial natural native forest areas that remain. The sources of this problem were the commencement of export woodchip schemes to supply Japan, and the pine planting programs to provide softwoods for Australian use. 
The woodchip problem is one which has only recently gained public notoriety. The pine planting program in the past has been the subject of much public discussion and involvement. On 23 July 1 974 the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation resolved to inquire and report upon: 
The operations of the Softwood Forestry Agreement Acts of 1967 and 1972 with particular reference to their environmental, social and economic impact and make appropriate recommendations as to the form of any future softwood industry agreements legislation. 
The Standing Committee was concerned that the existing program did not pay enough attention to economic and environmental considerations. In my opinion, the more important recommendations of the House of Representatives inquiry are: 
As a general rule, money should not be loaned to the States for the planting of softwoods in areas where native forest is to be clear felled. The only exceptions should be where a thorough and stringently supervised independent research program has been conducted into the flora and fauna of that area as well as its soil quality and where the planting plans allow for their protection. 
An increasing proportion of the finance loaned to the States should be dedicated to the purchase of land already cleared for other marginal pursuits. 
3 ) Plans for the planting of exotic softwoods should be made available for public scrutiny. Full consultations and discussions should be held with interested parties before they are implemented. 
Greater encouragement should be given by the Australian Government for the declaration of more extensive areas of Australian native forests as national parks. 
Additional funds should be made available to the CSIRO and other relevant bodies for research into the many areas of forestry management about which so little is known. 
An immediate study should be carried out by a body such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to determine the economic viability of the softwood program on both strict financial grounds and on the broadest possible cost benefit grounds. 
Stringent conditions should be imposed upon the lending of Federal money to ensure that forestry management procedures designed to protect the environment are strictly observed. 
Each of these recommendations raise complex issues with which we have not yet come to grips. We do not feel that the Government or the bureacracy have faced up to these issues. We have called for an inquiry because of this and because we are worried by the power that the forestry lobby has in the governments of this country. 
In recognition of some of the issues raised by the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, the Government has asked the States, and apparently the States have agreed, that new plantings under this agreement will, in the main, be established on land which has already been cleared for agricultural purposes. While this is a step in the right direction, I believe that on this particular issue the Government should take a firmer line. I know that most State forestry commissions have become more progressive in recent years, but I am still concerned that some of them, and particularly the New South Wales Forestry Commission, still persist in clear felling native forests to establish pine monocultures. The Government's decision to waive the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) legislation for monies expended under this agreement causes this side of the House concern. We feel that the Government has made a mistake. We believe that an environmental impact statement should be called for from the States before they are allowed to clear fell native forest areas for the planting of softwood forests. It is not good enough for the Government to announce that if future agreements of this nature are made, it will be necessary for the States to comply with the administrative arrangements of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. They should be complied with now in cases where clear felling operations are to be used. 
In this House on Tuesday I pointed to the need to declare more national parks and reserve areas in our country. I used as an example the necessity to declare large tracks of our native forest that were under threat from the integrated sawlog pulpwood industry as reserves- reserves to protect our flora and fauna and particularly our endangered species. I do not believe that enough is understood about the delicate nature and fabric of our environment or the conflict that arises between development proposals and the need to preserve our heritage. This is a conflict which comes to a head in all the forestry proposals which destroy our native forest and the natural habitat of our wildlife. A balance has to be struck between development and conservation. We have a duty to ensure that adequate measures are taken to safeguard the environment and to protect our flora and fauna. We have a duty to ensure that clear-felling of parts of our native forests is rationalised and that enough areas of native forest are left to preserve our natural environment. 
On this question I would draw the Minister's attention to another important recommendation of the Standing Committee's report: 
Immediate consideration should be given to providing financial assistance to the States for the regeneration of hardwood areas in a way that ensures maintenance of forest diversity and other environmental values. 
This without doubt was a major recommendation. But I can find nothing in this agreement or the Minister's second reading speech to show that the Government is even aware of that recommendation. Why do we not have a policy to regenerate native hardwood forest areas for environmental purposes? Why is not money lent to the States to plant native hardwood forest to restore our heritage and protect ecosystems that support our wildlife? This is just another reason why an independent inquiry should be held. 
As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech the Standing Committee considered that there was a need for softwood planting programs. But it rejected the doctrine of softwood self-sufficiency used to justify the previous agreements. The Committee rightfully expressed doubts about the economics of pine planting in Australia and called for a study to be conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. This study apparently has been finished already. It has been made available to the members of the Australian Forestry Council but it has not been made available to this House. 
According to the Minister, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has indicated that, from an economic viewpoint, it is in Australia 's interest to continue the pine planting programs. A complementary study conducted by the Forestry and Timber Bureau has apparently supported these conclusions. Without seeing these reports I question their validity. There have been numerous private studies into the economic rationale behind the softwood forestry industry. The Routleys' study made out valid arguments which show that Australia is currently self-sufficient and the industry is heavily subsidised in the production of  softwood.  Their study was also supported by Ferguson and Parkes who published similar data in 1975. 
In view of the forward projections of Australia's population and the use to which softwoods are to be put in this country, and without having seen the reports now available to the Minister and the Government, I must accept the views expressed by the Routleys and Ferguson and Parkes. In saying this I recognise that we need significant softwood resources. I realise that softwoods have certain advantages over hardwoods with respect to their use in the building industry because of the different natures of the 2 timbers. 
I appreciate that due to the different growth rates between hard and softwoods, that threequarters of the sawn wood used in the world is coniferous. These coniferous timbers are important to the whole building industry. The main reason for the supporting softwood planting programs is to supply the future saw-log needs of Australia. 
As I have said saw-logs are used in the main in the building industry. Australia's need for softwood saw-logs is controlled by our need for new and replacement housing. The Borrie report and other population projections conducted in recent years have shown that demand for this type of timber will stabilise after 1985. All of these studies show that the household formation rate in the next decade will be much the same as for the last 10 years. After that the household formation rate will slow down considerably. This is why I question the validity of the two reports available to the Minister and his state counterparts and not available to us. When such discussions as this are going on before the House I ask why that paper is not available to either Government supporters or members of the Opposition. This is an important issue. It is one that should be the subject of full and open discussion. Without this information it is impossible to know what our requirements are. 
The Minister is aware that we can meet all our softwood requirements by negotiating long term contracts under the Free Trade Agreement with New Zealand. It has been asked for some time why it is necessary to continue to grow softwoods in this country when we know that on econmic grounds alone it would be better to obtain our softwoods from New Zealand where the rate of growth of softwoods, particularly in the southern island, is much faster than in any area of Australia. New Zealand is an abundant world source of softwood products. We could continue to support softwood pine planting programs in this country for two reasons. The first one concerns the question of Australia's needs, the future security of overseas sources and the likely world demand for softwood products. 
If there can be no guarantee that New Zealand or other countries could meet our long term requirements because of demand from other countries it will be necessary for Australia to become self-sufficient if we are not already selfsufficient. Softwood plantings have been made to meet a projected population of some 22 million people by the year 2000. But we already know as a result of the projection of the Borrie report that at the present rate of growth there will be only about 17.3 million to 17.5 million people by the year 2000. On that basis alone there already appears to be an overproduction of softwood in this country. As I said earlier, in terms of economic viability there does not seem to be a necessity to continue the present rate of planting. If planting is to be carried on we say that there should be a full inquiry into every aspect of the timber industry so that we can clearly understand where we are going. 
When I say that we could obtain our softwoods from New Zealand, I do not mean that we should close down the softwood industry, but we must not expand it However, I say that with reservation. It may be necessary but we do not know this because we do not have access to the same report as the Minister. I might say that we are playing a game of blind man's bluff in that the House of Representatives is discussing an agreement which has only another year to run but it does not have the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which would enable us to assess the true situation. As I said, the report prepared by the 3 individuals I mentioned questioned the whole concept. If it is necessary we would support softwood plantings but only if these plantings occurred on already cleared land. By adopting such an approach, because of the labour intensiveness of the industry we could have an opportunity to create a viable rural industry. 
Today there are very few rural industries with a fairly high labour content. The Opposition admits that within the rural sector this contribution can be made. This is one of the reasons why, at this stage, the Opposition does not oppose this proposition. I question whether the report of the Forestry and Timber Bureau has looked at many of the issues and doubts surrounding the rotational aspect of forestry management. To my mind, there are many problems and many areas of research which should be looked at. These are problems such as nutrient requirements, diseases which may be introduced and the changes in soil structure that occur as a result of rotational monocultural forestry techniques. 
All of these issues are matters of concern. They highlight the need for an independent inquiry into the forestry industry to look at the economics, the environmental aspects and the effects on our soils and watersheds. We must do this now. We must do it to preserve our natural forests, to protect our flora and fauna and to protect our forest ecosystems. We must all realise that acceptable forestry management techniques must be found and implemented to prevent the possibility of major and irreversible damage to the country's ecology. 
I am concerned at the great tracts of Australia that have been taken over by the northern exotic trees which were introduced into this country because they were not only softwoods but also faster growing. My concern is that the northern exotics smother everything beneath them. The flora and fauna are completely destroyed. If one walks through a  pinus radiata  forest, one notices that there is no natural undergrowth at all and that native flora and fauna cannot exist in these northern exotic forests. It is better to ensure that we preserve our natural forests. The Opposition 0is concerned, if I might say so, not only about the loss of our own sovereignty but also about the loss of sovereignty of flora and fauna to foreign monoculture. 
It seems to me that this situation should be looked at with a great deal of concern and reservation. I believe that though the growth of native forests might, in many cases, be slower, we should be looking at our own natural timbers. Many of my colleagues on this side of the House have stated that we should be looking, at the use of our natural cypress for purposes for which  pinus radiata  has been used. ° In the last couple of decades we seem to have lost a great deal of our national heritage, not only to foreign capital in the exploitation of our industries, but also by the introduction of these exotic species. In our own gardens, as I recall from my early days, we planted too many northern exotics. A particular example is the city of Melbourne where northern exotic species such as rhododendrons, azaleas, camellias and other surface feeders were planted. An enormous amount of water is needed for these plants. We have tried to introduce a foreign culture into our harsh and difficult land. 
We should study more and more our own natural habitat to ensure that we use the best of Australia for Australians. We are dealing with our own natural environment and the more we study our environment the more we understand it, whether it be in our gardens, whether it be in our forests or whether it be the people themselves. We need to try to understand, study scientifically and have some confidence in what is Australian. In the long term, it seems to me, we would be far better off. 
While the Opposition does not oppose the Bill, I say to honourable members on the other side of the House that the Opposition would like to see a great deal of rethinking done. It would like to see some understanding and pride in what is Australian so that we can develop our own natural being, whether in our forests or in ourselves. If we had more faith in our own beliefs, I think we would have a much better country and, if I might say so, we would even have better forests. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and I refer to reports of a large stock build-up in the retail sector. Does this, in conjunction with recent retail sales and savings figures, suggest that the hoped for consumer revival is not in prospect? Further, in view of the role which stock build-up in late 1974 played in the origins of the present recession, will the Treasurer heed the warnings and take appropriate action to overcome the situation which is developing? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the action to prevent Telecom Australia in Darwin from passing on messages from Fretilin in Timor was taken in response to a request from the Indonesian Foreign Minister. Further, I ask whether this action places Australia against world opinion as expressed by the tenor of the current United Nations debate on East Timor. 
-Yesterday the Fraser Cabinet decided to prevent Telecom, Darwin, from passing on telegrams from the Fretilin forces in East Timor. These Telecom messages are the only way in which the Australian people and the world can find out what is happening in East Timor. For example, we received a message on 11 November from Fretilin giving an account of heavy fighting near Nassuta, 15 kilometres south-west of Dili. The report stated that infighting there between 8 and 15 October, 140 Indonesian soldiers were killed. This indicates a high level of fighting. That these reports must be substantially accurate is indicated by recent Australian Press reports. On 2 1 October in the  Canberra Times  Bruce Juddery reported a joint intelligence organisation survey of the situation in East Timor. As we would expect from this agency, their report was proIndonesian. Nonetheless if we read between the lines the Indonesian's military situation is grim in 
East Timor.  Mr Juddery's  report stated that the Joint Intelligence Organisation believed that the Indonesians controlled only half the area and half the people in East Timor. This is a dramatic confirmation of the Fretilin report of fighting within 15 kilometres of Dili. The JIO report also notes that Indonesia has withdrawn some troops from East Timor. This confirms Press reports that the Indonesians have had troubles in their troops ' morale in East Timor. 
I have drawn attention to the military situation in East Timor because I want to make one basic point. That is that the Fraser Government's hopes that Fretilin will disappear are false. Recently the  National Miner  of 1 November claimed that natural resource diplomacy was emerging as a major factor in shaping Australia 's policy towards Indonesia. That paper reported that the Indonesian generals have indicated through diplomatic channels that Australian companies with mineral and petroleum concessions in East Timor will be welcome to stay provided they negotiate their rights with the Indonesian Government. 
Also the  Age  newspaper last month reported that the Australian Indonesian Business Cooperation Committee had urged the Government to recognise the attempted Indonesian annexation of East Timor. The Bank of New South Wales, the Australia and New Zealand Bank, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd, Blue Metal Industries Ltd and the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Dairy Board are among the members of this committee. From these reports we get some idea of the forces behind this Government's betrayal of the people of East Timor. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  claims that we have not extended  de facto  or  de jure  recognition of the Indonesian invasion but that we recognise 'realities'. May I say that this is just semantics. 
If we look at the actions of the Government over the last few months we see what these 'realities' have led to. Aid has been given to the Indonesian Red Cross despite reports that this aid is finding its way to Indonesian military forces. Rogerio Lobarto, the Minister for National Defence, and Mari Alkatiri, the Minister for Political Affairs, of the Democratic Republic of East Timor have been refused entry visas into Australia.  Mr Chris  Santos has been refused permanent residency status in Australia. Military aid to Indonesia continues. Recently an Indonesian military mission came here for discussions. Timorese refugees from Indonesia's unprovoked aggression have been refused special consideration for migration to Australia. 
These actions are further evidence of our sell out of East Timor. They go beyond recognising realities' to encouraging so-called 'realities'. This Government reveals its true colours and it stands condemned by all enlightened people who seek peace and justice for all the people of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and I remind him that in his election policy speech he claimed that only under a Liberal-National Country Party government would there be a return to business confidence. I ask the Prime Minister Does the persistent fall in share prices in all industries, including rnining, since Budget night, and the continuing outflow of private capital in recent months support his claims, or do they suggest that both local and foreign investors have lost all faith in the ability of his Government to manage the Australian economy? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Is it true that Australian Government officials have begun talks with Japanese officials to study the feasibility of uranium enrichment in Australia? Further, if this report is true, is this further evidence that the Government is determined to go ahead with its uranium program and to ignore public debate, as recommended by the Fox report? 
-Time does not permit me to answer the spurious arguments of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney).  I state quite clearly that I do not consider this exchange in the Parliament as in any way constituting a public debate of the issues examined and still being examined by the Fox Commission. I will not subscribe to the view being put by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Ranger inquiry itself constitutes a full examination by the people of the uranium and nuclear industry issue. If the Government is trying to suggest that this now is a national parliamentary debate on the Ranger inquiry and this now is reflecting the views being expressed in the community it is very much mistaken. The Minister knows perfectly well that he has not consulted the general community at all. The Fox Commission has not even completed its work. We have had only the first of its reports to hand. 
This limited debate, with a few members of this House speaking for 15 minutes each, is a farce and a sham. Public debate is debate by the people, and it takes time. The idea of consulting with the people may be a bit strange for this Government, but it can be done. The Austrian Government recently commenced a nationwide discussion of the nuclear issue. Its program seems to take particular care not to waive the debate according to pre-determined government intentions. A significant and growing proportion of the Australian population wants time and the debate. My Party has joined with many concerned groups in the community- trade unions, Aboriginal people, church groups, women's groups, environmentalists and groups of citizens concerned with the preservation of democractic rights- in condemning the haste of the Government in making its 11 November statement, its disregard of the final recommendation of the Fox report and its general stance on the issue of uranium mining development. The people have a mandate for their debate and their right to be consulted on the final recommendations of the Fox report. I also draw attention to page 6 of the Fox report which states: 
Ultimately many of the questions are social and ethical ones. We agree strongly with the view that the final decision should rest with the ordinary man and not be regarded as the preserve of any group of experts however distinguished. 
The Fox Commissioners clearly state on page 181 that because of the arguments put to them they cannot draw a firm conclusion one way or the other between placing a moratorium on the decision to go ahead with mining or to proceed with carefully planned development of the industry. The Commissioners have handed the matter over to the people, but this Government has intervened. This Government, by its actions and its statement made ironically on 1 1 November of this year, has tried to ignore both the Fox report and the people 's rights. 
The Government has taken a major decision to export over 16 000 tonnes of Australia's uranium from sources that are insufficient to meet export contracts involved. Implicit in this decision is that new uranium mines must be opened; that uranium mining development will go ahead. The Government's 11 November statement completely casts aside the social and ethical questions involved with the Government's typical contempt for such considerations. It only pays lip service to matters of safeguard requirements, the control of Australia's uranium exports after they leave the shores and, most importantly, nuclear weapons proliferation. Guidance offered by the Fox Commission on all these matters has been cynically and dangerously cast aside. In continuing to press the Government for sufficient time and a true public debate I recognise the extent of the desire by certain elements in the conservative parties for fullscale mining development. This Government has only ever paid lip service to the Ranger inquiry. It made public statements about not doing anything before the outcome of the inquiry was known but privately it has gone ahead encouraging mining companies to enter into long term contracts for supplying uranium, including the supply to such dangerous regimes as the government of Iran. Members of this Government have gone themselves and sent their bureaucrats to solicit foreign investment for uranium mining projects. 
Earlier this year the Government provided a special guarantee of an Australia and New Zealand Bank loan that it arranged for Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. It guaranteed that Australia's uranium would be exported to the United Kingdom to replace in kind uranium borrowed by MKU. If the Fox findings were truly to provide a basis for the decisions on mining and export of uranium how in heaven's name can the Government have proceeded in this manner? The Fox report at page 83 shows clearly that the large capital investors are the only ones who will benefit substantially from uranium mining development. The drive for profit is the only motivation of the uranium producers' forum in 
Australia. Commitment to a narrow ideological position has drawn this conservative Government and key elements of the bureaucracy into support for and advancement of these interests. Their empty statements on safeguards, controls and concerns about nuclear war do nothing to mask their basic concerns with advancing the interests of uranium mining companies, regardless of the social and environmental costs that ordinary Australians may have to pay. 
The only really surprising thing about the Government's statement of 1 1 November is the haste with which it made its decision. It is clear that time is the enemy of the Government and the pro-uranium lobby. The longer the Australian people have to consider the issue and the more it is talked about, the more concerned people become; the longer the Government delays, the more opposition it will face. So the Government has acted quickly. It has acted while it still has a manageable opposition in Australia. It has acted now to crush the union bans on uranium exports as part of its overall attack on the unions. The Government recognises that once exports are flowing and business gets under way, it will be extremely difficult for an alternative government or the people themselves to extract Australia from this so-called commitment. On reflection, it is easy to understand why the Government is in such a hurry. I can see clear reasons for the Government's deciding to proceed by giving the go-ahead to immediate exports. Firstly, meeting contracts from Australian sources right now is a ploy to break the union bans. The Government clearly recognises that the union bans are the only way mining and export can be held up until the Australian people examine the real issues. That is why the bans have to be removed one way or another. Secondly, the decision has been taken in this way because of the disastrous financial position of Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. While the delay of exports has added to the company's financial difficulties, mismanagement, especially in cost estimates, has been the overwhelming factor. 
Now the Australian people are being denied any say in this important issue so that the Government can get MKU off the hook. The major interest in MKU is Conzinc Rio-Tinto of Australia Ltd which, in turn, is a subsidiary of the giant Rio-Tinto Zinc of the United Kingdom. Rio-Tinto Zinc controls 1 5 per cent of the known uranium deposits of the western world and it completely monopolises the uranium deposits of South Africa. This Government's priorities are strange, to say the least. The newspapers tell us that some Government backbenchers see uranium mining development as the source of the much hoped for economic recovery. Certainly, a 17.5 per cent devaluation will do much to draw in foreign investment into new mining projects. If the Government's backbenchers look closely at the mining lobby's claim of vast economic benefits to Australia from uranium mining development, they will see that the claims are empty. The Fox report again provides the evidence. At page 83, it states:   . . contribution to net national income and employment opportunities would be relatively small. 
Optimal development of all Australia's uranium, it states: 
. would probably result in an increase of about 0.1 per cent of national income in 1980-81, rising to about 0.S per cent in 1990-91. 
Therefore it would decline. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  was only 4.5 per cent out. Anti-trust actions in the United States court by Westinghouse threatens the price base upon which even that modest economic benefit is based. I am sure that at least some Government backbenchers, like members of the Australian Labor Party, are concerned about the present and prospective unemployment situation in Australia and about the serious problems of Australia's manufacturing industry. Uranium mining offers not even a partial solution to the unemployment situation. The Fox report says that the employment benefits of Ranger are limited. After a 2-year construction phase, 250 men will be required to produce 3000 tonnes of uranium per annum. 
The new mining development is highly capital intensive. The supposed sequential development of the uranium mines means that the total workforce will remain small. The mining lobby says that the indirect employment benefits are much greater. Given the remote location of the proposed mines, that is highly questionable. Mining machinery will not be made in Australia. It will be imported. On the other hand, the indirect employment cost will be great. This is because of the adverse impact of mining sector development on the rural and manufacturing sectors of the economy. I ask honourable members of the Country Party to take heed of this. Mining requires vast amounts of capital. In part, this capital is redirected from investment in other sectors of the economy, particularly from manufacturing industry. One only had to look at the recent investment decisions of companies such as the Bank of New South Wales, the Australian Mutual Provident Society, and Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd to see the vast rechannelling that is taking place in their investments. 
Meanwhile, the steel plants of BHP deteriorate and the new, more labour intensive manufacturing ventures are denied investment funds. 
In setting this course for a massive structural change in the Australian economy, of which uranium mining development is a major part, this Government has acted contrary to the best interests of the working population and the large number of small and medium size industrial enterprises in our country. This Government seems intent on committing Australia to a supplier role in the western world's nuclear energy industry. It has signed up this and future governments, this and future generations, for a role that the people have not had time to consider and almost certainly will not want. Growing numbers of people oppose the Government's action. The parliamentary Labor Party has given notice that it will not be bound by new contracts approved by this Government. Trade unions have stated that they will prevent the resumption of uranium exports until public discussion has taken place and the people decide on the issue. 
The Government should recognise the legitimate demands and rights of the people. The honourable member for La Trobe asks: 'How long will that take?' The time that it will take is not important. Whether it takes 1 or 2 years; the fact is that the debate should take place. The people should have a basic understanding of the major decisions that the Government is making. The Government is making decisions which not only will affect the involvement of the whole of mankind but which also will have major consequences for the whole structure of employment in Australia in decades ahead. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Treasurer considered the impact of the devaluation on manufacturers' costs? How does he expect them to adjust for the price increases which they will have to bear in respect of imported components? Has he considered the long term effect on the manufacturing sector of the balance of payments surpluses which will result from the mining boom he hopes for? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I draw his attention to his statement in Hobart on 28 October in which he called the first of the 16 findings and recommendations of the Fox report the major recommendations. Since those recommendations and the second findings or recommendations appear to be the main basis upon which the Government has decided to proceed with uranium exports and subsequent uranium development, does he still consider the first recommendations in the Fox report to be the major recommendations? Has he or other Ministers sought or obtained the advice of any of the commissioners to clarify those points or any other points of uncertainty about the Fox report? If so, what was the nature of that advice? 
-My comments in this debate regard the housing industry. Most comment on the recent devaluation has been about its general economic implications and on the recent distribution of wealth which that implies. Most critics say that it will boost inflation, worsen the real income situation of pensioners and others on fixed incomes, and move resources from labour intensive manufacturing industries to the capital intensive mining sector. That is redistribution from the weak to the strong, from Australian manufacturing to foreign-owned mining companies. Most critics say that the currency speculators who caused the run on the balance of payments which caused devaluation, are also the chief gainers. Most critics say that the Government had open to it other options which would have contained price rises and promoted economic growth. But such options would not have rewarded the rich and penalised the weak. On all this there is agreement. 
Today I shall make my grievance about the effect of devaluation on housing; that is, on the housing industry, on home buyers and on home builders. Devaluation will affect housing in 3 ways. Firstly, it will lead to general price rises. These will reduce the real incomes of wage earners, leaving them with less to spend on housing. Secondly, it will distort the capital market by making investment in mining more profitable than previously. Investors will be reluctant to put their funds into housing. They will prefer getrichquick returns from mineral speculation to the steady but sure returns from housing investment. Thirdly, it will lead to rises in housing prices. This is partly due to the increases in the cost of imported housing materials, but mainly to the general cost pressures to which a new inflationary spiral will lead. If this were the total situation it would be bad enough. But it is the secondary effects of the devaluation which are most worrying. 
Cynical speculators have taken nearly $900m out of the country recently in the hope of large capital gains. They will now repatriate it, perhaps over the next 3 to 6 months. They have made a huge 17½ per cent profit from their speculations so they will bring back more Australian dollars than they took out. The money supply growth that this will cause will exceed a billion dollars. Growth in money supply will be even greater if devaluation leads to the long term capital inflow which is the Government's aim. The implications for domestic liquidity are worrying. Already this financial year money supply has exceeded the target growth rate of about 12 per cent. It has already grown by almost 16 per cent. I do not want to over-emphasise money supply targets, but the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  seems to think that they are central. If he is to stay on target he will have to cut back the money supply drastically for the remainder of this financial year. 
The Treasurer foreshadowed this cutback in his Press statement of last Sunday in which he promised a very tight June quarter. When speculators bring their funds back- very likely in the same quarter- the Government can be expected to begin a program of tight money and high interest rates. The Treasurer hinted at this last Sunday and I am sure he meant it. The Government's policies have come unstuck and its recent decisions have been increasingly ad hoc. The only consistent theme is that the Government is anti-worker, anti-manufacturing and antiAustralian. It favours the strong and the foreign. It rewards the speculator. But at least in the monetary area it seems determined to achieve its set target of 12 per cent money supply growth. I think the Government has only 2 options if this is its aim. Firstly, it could neutralise the effect of the increase in liquidity by operating exclusively in the banking system. Secondly, it could try to sop up the increased liquidity, partly by borrowing from the public- possibly along the lines of the ill-fated Australian savings bond of earlier this year- and partly by restricting bank lending. Either option hurts home buyers. 
In the first case, new bank lending is frozen by a combination of calling up bank deposits, that is, by increasing special reserve deposits or by forcing banks to take up more Government bonds and increasing the LGS ratio. At present the banks provide about 50 per cent of all housing finance. Such a policy would virtually prevent new lending by the banks for housing and would deny finance to many intending home buyers. It would also force up interest rates. This would lead to a situation where many prospective home buyers could no longer afford housing. It would also increase the repayments of existing mortgage holders. The more likely Government policy would be to try to sop up the extra liquidity by a combination of some restraints on the banking system combined with an attempt to induce individual savers to buy government bonds instead of depositing with savings banks or other financial institutions such as building societies. This would have the effect of diverting funds from the banks and building societies and so limiting their ability to lend for housing. 
This would also force up the general level of interest rates. This would happen because, in order to induce people to take up government bonds, the Government would have to offer attractive interest rates. I think that a rate rise of at least 2 per cent can be expected. It means at least a 16 per cent increase in monthly repayments on an average housing loan. For example, it means that a person on an average income will be required to pay almost 27 per cent of his income on housing repayments, as against 23 per cent now if he had borrowed $20,000 repayable over 25 years. If he borrows $25,000 his repayments will rise by 30 per cent to 34 per cent of his income. If interest rates rise by 1 per cent mortage payments will increase by $ 1 4 a month on a 20,000 loan and $18 a month on a $25,000 loan. I expect the rate to rise by at least 2 per cent over the next year. This means monthly increases of at least $28 and $36 respectively. 
The effects of this devaluation will price housing out of the reach of the average worker. Also it wil dry up the supply of housing funds as a result of the Government's attempts to contain the growth in money supply as speculators cash in their gains. The situation for the average home buyer will be worse if the Government's threats to reduce real incomes by a penal wage policy succeed. People on average incomes cannot afford to pay more than 25 per cent of their income on housing. Under this scheme they will have to pay much more than that. If this devaluation causes prices to rise, the supply of finance to dry up, interest rates to rise and real incomes to fall, what will be the result? Workers will not be able to afford housing. Even if they could, they would not be able to obtain finance. The end result is disaster for intending home buyers, deprivation for existing owners and unemployment for those who work in the industry. 
The currency speculators have a lot to answer for. This Government is betraying its responsibilities to protect the interests of the ordinary Australians, both those seeking a home and those already committed to heavy repayments. I believe that the Government's policy will have enormous consequences for this country, for the home building and construction industry. That industry is one in which there should be growth and development in the next decade. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. In spelling out the monetary measures consequent upon the devaluation to the House yesterday, he made no mention of the Government's money supply target. Has the Government abandoned the target announced in the Budget Speech and is this because of the adverse effects it would now have on the housing market? 
-Will the Prime Minister confirm that he said on television last night that the minor adjustments to interest rates announced by the Treasurer yesterday are the only adjustments to monetary policy which will be needed to offset the inflationary effects of devaluation? On what policy tool does the Government plan to depend in its future fight against inflation? 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with the view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of the opinion that this scheme does not recognise that each household in Australia is entitled to adequate and conveniently located accommodation at a price which does not impose too great a strain on household resources, rather it perpetuates existing inequalities'. 
This legislation in no way assists the housing problem in this country. This Government does not have a housing policy, just as it does not possess a consistent economic policy. It does not understand the problems facing those people who need basic accommodation. It does not understand that only a comprehensive approach to the whole housing accommodation problemboth public and private, owned and rented, as it concerns the poor and rich- is the way to come to grips with the problem. The Government does not recognise that every person in Australia has a basic right and entitlement to adequate accommodation at a price which they can afford. This Government, by reintroducing a scheme which was inadequate and inequitable 10 years ago is adding to the housing problem. It is acting in a sectional way; it is perpetuating inequalities that have arisen after a decade of inflation and it has compounded those inequalities by devaluation and economic mismanagement. There can be no doubt that housing finance will become tighter and more expensive in the. year ahead. This will inevitably make the scheme more inequitable. This Government claims that it believes in the principle of home ownership but its actions are just the opposite. 
The first home savings grant scheme was introduced in 1964 to help to overcome the then problem of the deposit gap. The same philosophy underlies this proposal but this is no longer the main problem. Today, the basic problem is the repayment gap. Even if the scheme removed the deposit gap completely the problem of the income gap and repayment gap will remain. The scheme before the House does not even start to come to grips with these major problems which should be the focus of the Government's housing policy. An even more basic flaw of the scheme is its lack of equity. It redistributes from the poor to the more unfortunate in the community. These grants will be financed from revenue to which the poorer groups in the community contribute but those poorer people will be denied assistance for housing because of their inability to save. It is a denial of justice to these poorer groups, and to the younger people in particular, to hold out a reward for savings which they cannot make; savings which are now beyond their ability because of this Government's economic mismanagement. 
We all know that banks and building societies do not lend if the rate of repayment exceeds 25 per cent to 30 per cent of earnings. In most cases, this means that people who earn less than 135 per cent of the average weekly earnings- less than $248 a week- are denied the opportunity of home ownership. Only 12 per cent of the work force earns above that percentage of average weekly earnings. When the 1964 scheme was introduced every person on or above the average weekly earnings was a potential home buyer. The only problem was raising the deposit. This was entirely due to the favourable market for housing finance that existed at that time. To take an example based on South Australian figures for 1 966, in that year a home seeker could buy an average home for $ 10,000 on a deposit of $2, 100 with weekly repayments of about $13.50. This was the situation when after-tax average weekly earnings were $52 a week. Repayments approximately amounted to 25 per cent of the person's income. On this basis a home seeker had access to home finance and could buy a home. This is in complete contrast to the situation which now exists. 
The 20 years from 1945 to 1965 was an era of progress, so far as home purchases and home ownership in Australia is concerned- home ownership rose from 50 per cent to 72 per cent of householders and building costs declined in relative terms. This was followed by a slump in new ownership. Today, the cost of an average home and land in the western suburbs of Sydney is between $30,000 and $35,000. In Melbourne it is only slightly less. Fewer young families can afford to buy new homes because even if they could save the deposit they have no access to home finance. I refer again to the South Australian example: In 1975 the average home and land package cost $31,700. This required a deposit of up to $6,350 with repayments of $55 a week. After-tax, average weekly earnings were $123. Repayments amounted to 45 per cent of income. No lending institution would advance funds to a home seeker who had to devote such a high proportion of his or her income to repayments. 
As interest rates rise in the next year and money becomes scarcer, only the top few per cent of income earners will be able to obtain home finance. Most Australian families will be excluded altogether and greater pressure will be placed on the State public housing authorities. The homes savings grant scheme will do nothing to arrest this situation. If anything, it will intensify the pressure on the State housing authorities. It highlights this Government's lack of understanding of the very nature of the housing problem and this Government's lack of overall policies and priorities. The cost of this scheme in a full year will involve the misallocation of $90m. That is what it will cost in a full financial year and I say quite clearly that it is a misallocation of resources. This Government's record in housing is poor. Since 1949 the normal government approach has been a series of  ad hoc  measures to patch up particular failures in parts of the housing market and to meet the demands of the best organised pressure groups. Even the Labor Government started off with this approach. But we recognised the need to have a comprehensive policy and we were working towards it. We showed this by establishing the Australian Housing Corporation- a body which would have played an evolutionary role in developing a comprehensive housing policy in Australia. It was under the ministerial portfolio of my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les 
Johnson) that the Australian Housing Corporation evolved. He drew on the mistakes that had been made in the past and even the mistakes that we made, when in Government, were examined. I think the honourable member for Hughes will agree with me when I say that we learned from the mistakes of the past and also drew on our experience in government. 
This Government has abolished the Australian Housing Corporation. When we established that Corporation we recognised the value placed by the community on housing. We recognised that housing policy was an integral part of our policies concerned with the quality of both the natural environment and the built environment. We recognised that housing policies affected the location and pattern of settlement and the development and provision of services and facilities. We recognised the effect of home ownership and the use of property on the distribution of wealth. We recognised that housing was an important part of policy directed towards achievement of our equity and welfare objectives. We recognised the importance of the housing sector in policies of overall economic management. The Fraser Government fails to understand and even fails to try to understand this most complex and human problem. 
This Government, unlike the Labor Government, attempted to pass the responsibility for housing back to the States and to wash its hands of involvement in the housing sector. Government members know that the Government tried to do this even in relation to war service homes, which had been a traditional area of Commonwealth involvement under our defence legislation. This Government wanted to transfer responsibility for war service homes to the States. In fact, it carried out negotiations with many of the States. Because of the heavy subsidies involved in war service homes, the States did not want to assume that burden; therefore, they rejected those approaches. That has been the role of this Government. It has sought to wash its hands completely of a matter, which is important in both the human sense and the economic sense. 
We recognised that a Federal government must be deeply and collectively involved with the States in housing policy. It is an essential responsibility of a Federal government because of the vital political importance of housing for the general welfare of the nation and because the main factor in achieving housing policy objectives is the supply and price of money for public and private housing purposes. These are matters of financial and monetary management. These are a direct Federal Government responsibility; but problems in housing, like so many other aspects of life and other responsibilities of government, can be solved only by the Federal Government acting in co-operation with the other tiers of government, the community, private enterprise and the trade unions. Unless we work together at all levels of government and with the private and community groups, this problem cannot be solved. My colleague, the honourable member for Hughes, brought all of these sections together in an indicative planning body to look at the future of housing. It was our Government that took that initiative to try to bring out the importance of the leadership role of the Australian Government in this vital sector. The Government and in particular the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, who is at the table, do not appear to understand the importance of financial and monetary management to housing policy. Neither housing nor the institutions which provide housing finance are given a high priority in their economic policies. 
I say to the Minister at the table that housing is not only a very human problem but also an economic, social and political one. The Minister is not a member of the Economic Committee of Cabinet. He is not even a member of Cabinet. He and his Department are part of the outer Ministry. That is an indication of the priority that this Government gives to the important issue of housing, not to mention the environment and community living. The Minister, as recently as last Monday, showed this Government's lack of concern for and lack of understanding of housing and its position in the nation's economy. In a Press statement headed 'Devaluation and the Building Industry', the Minister said: 
Any effect on the cost and availability of housing finance will only be marginal. 
The Minister nods his head. He was talking about the devaluation. I repeat what he said: 
Any effect on the cost and availability of housing finance will only be marginal. 
We on this side of the House have a different point of view in that regard. The Minister does not realise that, if the Government still intends to hold the annual growth in the money supply to around 12 per cent, interest rates must rise. He does not seem to understand that the money supply has been growing at an annual rate of 16 per cent this financial year. He does not seem to understand that, because of devaluation, capital inflows from foreign speculators are likely to amount to at least $ 1,000m. We are told that $850m of speculators' money flowed out of Australia. If that money is reinvested, at its higher value resulting from the 17&amp; per cent devaluation, the sum will exceed $ 1,000m. The influx of that money will result in enormous pressures on the inflationary situation in this country. The Minister obviously does not understand this; if he did, he would not make such a naive statement as he did on Monday last. 
There is no doubt in my mind that interest rates on home finance will rise by at least 2 per cent in the next year. If the Government intends to hold the annual growth in the money supply to around 12 per cent, interest rates must rise m the next year. The effect of this on potential home buyers, on recent purchasers, on the housing industry and on the economy will be disastrous. A 2 per cent increase in interest rates is not marginal. Its effect will be to increase average repayments by amounts ranging between $28 and $36 a month. Not even many of those better off people who will benefit from the homes savings grant scheme will be able to cope with this increase. The average worker, let alone the really poor amongst us, will have no hope of ever owning a home. That will be the result under this Government's policies. 
The effects of this devaluation undoubtedly will widen the repayment gap. It is pointless to introduce measures aimed at overcoming the deposit gap when the major problem facing home buyers is worsening. If interest rates rise by 2 per cent in the next year, only those people earning more than 150 per cent of average weekly earnings will be considered by lending institutions for housing loans if the 25 per cent to 30 per cent repayment rules are maintained. It is about time that this Government faced up to the situation and took positive measures to implement a flexible loan repayment scheme. It was the key to its December 1975 housing policy; but the Government has refused to do anything to introduce that scheme. Rather than do that, the Government has abolished the Australian Housing Corporation which the Labor Government established to introduce such a scheme. 
This is a sectional Government. It is a Government whose entire ideology revolves around widening the gap between the rich and the poor. The homes savings grant scheme being introduced by this legislation is regressive. Tins and other direct subsidy schemes to home owners are regressive when they involve the transfer of resources from the poor to the rich. These forms of assistance to home owners amount to no more than the poor subsidising the rich. This scheme is particularly regressive. It is obvious that low and middle income households cannot save around $40. a week on average, which is the amount needed to take full benefit of the carrot being waved in front of their noses. The scheme is a blatant subsidy for those whose capacity to save is above average. 
This scheme will benefit only people whose earnings are well above the average. It will do nothing to provide assistance to people whose ability to save is low. Are these people to be ignored while the Government takes deliberate action to perpetrate class differences and injustices? There can be no doubt that the $90m that this scheme will cost in a full year of operation would be better spent on assisting people in other ways. It could be used to provide a deferred mortgage repayments assistance scheme such as was put forward by the Labor Government in the Budget of 1975-76. It could be used for a second mortgage scheme such as we put forward in that Budget. By that I mean that second mortgages would not run for a short period of some 8 years but would be spread out over the full life of a loan covering 20 years or 25 years. This money could be used to provide more welfare housing. The amount allocated for this purpose this year is frozen to the figure spent by the Labor Government 2 years ago. 
The pressure on welfare housing is enormous and this present scheme is going to put even greater pressure on this sector. There can be no doubt that this money could be used more equitably. This scheme will only marginally increase the number of owner-occupied dwellings because the only people who will be able to use the benefit of this subsidy are those who would purchase a home in any case. People with the ability to save, people with access to home finance, will be the only ones who will benefit. 
Another worrying feature of this scheme is its effect on inflation. We must draw on experience. The benefits paid under the old scheme when it was in full operation merely resulted in an addition to the price of land and dwellings. That was the experience of builders and real estate agents during the years the old scheme operated. I have no doubt that the long-term effect of this scheme will be to add $2,000 to the price of an average home and the land it is built on. That is the experience of the past. 
Colleagues, I said earlier that housing was a human, social and economic problem. The present economic climate is what worries me particularly at the present time. High inflation will continue. In fact we will be lucky if we can keep inflation down to 16 per cent in the next year. Some economic observers believe it will rise to at least 20 per cent in the next year. The panic devaluation will have an enormous consequence on the home building industry. I see interest rates rising by at least 2 per cent in the next year. I see money for housing drying up and becoming hard to get. I see the Government's savings bonds scheme drawing in money from both the banks and the building societies. Already the interest rate has moved to 10 per cent. That was announced yesterday. We know from previous experience that when the Australian savings bonds rate rose to that level there was a drawing off of finance from both the building societies and the banks. 
Of course it is going to go up. I predict that interest rates for housing will rise by at least 2 per cent in the next year. We know that that situation will create chaos in the home building sector. I see gloom for the financial and construction sectors of the housing industry. We already know that the home building sector in both New South Wales and Queensland is under-used at present. I believe that the same pressure will be felt in other States and this is a matter of great concern. The general situation has been extremely difficult. I am not trying to say that we in the Labor Party had a magic wand and that we had all the answers to the problems. My colleague the honourable member for Hughes, who will follow me in this debate, knows that we had a very difficult problem to solve. In fact to some extent we did solve the problem of finding housing for people earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
One cannot divorce the homes savings grant scheme from any section of the housing industry because all sections are interrelated. Referring now to the problem of welfare housing, when we came to power this question was tied up with the moneys made available under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. Moneys were made available at the long-term bond rate but with a rebate formula. Basically the money was the people's money but they were paying for it at the long-term bond rate. In our first year in office we were able to introduce a scheme whereby we made money available at 4 per cent. The longterm bond rate was 9.5 per cent when we went out of Government but we were making money available for welfare housing at 4 per cent. In the last year of the McMahon Government $167m was made available for welfare housing but in our last year of office we made $375m available. In 3 years we had increased the amount from S167m to $375m and the terms and conditions under which we made that money available were of great assistance to the States in trying to overcome the backlog of welfare housing. People earning up to 85 per cent of average weekly earnings were able to apply for welfare housing. Further, 30 per cent of the money that we made available went into what is called the builders advance account and was made available to terminating building societies so that people with up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings could apply for a loan. So to some extent, under our Administration, there were housing programs for people earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
The great difficulty in the period of our Administration was meeting the need of that group of people earning between 95 per cent of average weekly earnings and 135 per cent. That is why we introduced several schemes in our 1975-76 Budget. The first proposal was the deferred mortgage repayments scheme. The second was the second mortgage proposal whereby repayments for second mortgages were spread over the full life of the original loan rather than over a short period. We were experimenting with those 2 proposals in order to try to overcome the problems facing that group of people earning between 95 per cent of average weekly earnings and 135 percent. 
We were also looking at other schemes such as co-operative schemes m the inner suburbs. We were trying to establish co-operative housing schemes to cater for people who had lived for most of their lives in dwellings which were being taken over by speculators. Under that scheme such people would have been able to approach the Australian Government and join in cooperatives to acquire their homes. We were trying many other innovative ideas. Only two weeks ago the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  opened a co-operative scheme here in Canberra which was developed and encouraged under our Administration. We were trying to do those things in other areas as well. Things were difficult under our Government and I make no excuse about that but we were getting on top of the situation and were trying to solve these very difficult problems. I predict that by the end of this financial year not only the Government will be in a difficult situation but also people earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings will be in great difficulties. I predict that people earning up to 155 per cent of average weekly earnings will not be in a position to meet the repayments of a normal housing loan. This scheme will in no way solve the problem. I believe it is a misallocation of resources. The $90m could be spent far more widely to overcome many of the critical housing problems. Therefore I ask the House to give consideration and support to the amendment. - 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer said that the overwhelming weight of evidence was against devaluation. He also said that no single component of the Budget strategy can fail without putting the basic objective of defeating inflation under threat. I ask: Is the Government's anti-inflation policy now under threat, or has the Treasurer changed his mind about the wisdom of his Government 's main economic goal? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I ask: Will the housing and consumer durable industries be affected by the Reserve Bank's attempts to isolate the export sector from interest rate increases? What effects will this have on employment in these industries? What effect will the necessary interest rate rises in these sectors have on the consumer price index and subsequent wage pressures? 
I refer to the recent revelations about the dumping of nuclear waste material at Maralinga in South Australia. I argue that the facts, as they have been reported, indicate that some very serious questions need to be answered. Therefore, I call upon the Government to appoint a royal commission to inquire into 2 matters: Firstly, any possible infringement of Australia's sovereignty which occurred as a result of the alleged actions of the British 
Government and, secondly, the health and environmental questions raised by these allegations. There has been a great deal of confusion about these matters. The then Minister for Supply chose to infer in his answers to questions on 13 and 14 September 1972 that the nuclear wastes in question were radio active debris associated with British atomic weapons testing in the 1950s. But recent allegations provide a new dimension to this question. 

 Mr Avon Hudson who worked at Maralinga during the 1960s has claimed that, in the early 1 960s, the British Government was secretly using the Maralinga atomic test site as a burial ground for waste from nuclear power stations.  Mr Hudson  stated during an Australian Broadcasting Commission interview on 3 December that he was engaged in digging holes and placing in them containers of radio active waste after which the holes were filled with sand.  Mr Hudson  stated that on one of these containers he read the words 'ex-Calder Hall'. Calder Hall was one of the first commercial nuclear power reactors to come on tap in Britain. It was commissioned in 1956. There is evidence to suggest that  Mr Hudson's  story is true. For instance, the waste, if it were dumped then, could not have been from the debris resulting from the atomic test program in the 1950s. The last test at Maralinga was carried out on 9 October 1957. Yet these reports suggest that radio active waste was buried at least 3 years after the last atomic tests. This indicates that the waste cannot have been debris. 
It should also be emphasised that the treatment of these wastes as described by  Mr Hudson  indicates that they were high level wastes. This is further evidence that nuclear power station waste was involved. This is because in atomospheric nuclear tests high level wastes cannot be recovered. So, these wastes must have been from spent nuclear fuel. But this is not all.  Mr Hudson  also claims that Bristol Britannia aircraft came from England and that the waste was buried near the airstrip. This is a further indication that  Mr Hudson's  story is true and that its implications for Australian sovereignty is serious. During this period the Royal Air Force strategic transport group flew Bristol Britannia aircraft. These aircraft had sufficient range to fly direct to Maralinga from Singapore, thus evading any security. That the wastes were buried hastily and at night indicates that this action was not undertaken with the approval of the Australian Government. 
I am aware of certain other information concerning these matters. It appears that further work was done scraping up soil and putting it into concrete after the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  gave his answers in 1972. Also, we have been informed that a bomb or material from a bomb which failed to detonate has been buried at Maralinga. I have been told also that the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council has been prevented, by a lack of funds, from studying the existing and future radiation hazards caused in the area by the improper storage of these wastes. These claims and the evidence supporting them are extremely serious. They imply that previous conservative governments have not safeguarded Australia's sovereignty. Also, the extreme danger of high level nuclear wastes to our environment means that these allegations and claims require a royal commission or, at least, a judicial inquiry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Treasurer: Is it a fact that, as he stated in reply to the honourable member for Perth last Monday, devaluation is not inflationary if there is surplus industrial capacity? Is this true of other expansionary policies? Why has the Treasurer never seen this simple fact before? 
-I ask the Prime Minister how the Government reached its decision to revalue the dollar by 2 per cent. 
-The Opposition opposes this Bill. The Bill demonstrates the sectionalism and the narrowness of the Fraser Government's approach to housing. The purpose of this Bill is to abolish a Labor Government initiative- the Australian Housing Corporation. It is just one more example of this Government's fear of endorsing anything that the Labor Government created. In support of this measure the Fraser Government states, without qualification, that the Housing Corporation represented an unnecessary and undesirable duplication of services already available and, in particular, services already provided by the various State governments. This must be one of the most naive statements that any government anywhere has ever made. It equals the naivety of the yo-yo devaluation of our currency and the Government's announcements on tariffs. 
This attitude to the Housing Corporation demonstrates once again the Government's inadequacy and its lack of understanding of the structural inequities in the current housing approach. 
We in the Labor Party never saw the Housing Corporation as the beginning and the end of our attempts to make housing policies more responsive to the needs of the people. But it was an important step forward; it was an evolutionary step. We saw the need to establish a housing bank to direct housing finance and assistance to those sectors of the housing market which most needed help. This housing bank was to introduce innovative programs aimed at those sectors of the community that were not and still are not being catered for by any of the existing housing sources. 
The programs and schemes that the Housing Corporation was to introduce at the beginning of this year were to complement and supplement the operations of traditional home finance institutions and the State housing authorities. They would not have duplicated any of the functions or programs being offered by any of these bodies. Apart from these innovative programs that were designed to help those in need of special forms of housing assistance, one of the Australian Housing Corporation's main responsibilities was the ongoing administration of the defence service homes scheme. This responsibility in itself was an important step. It was a step which was intended to regularise and to improve the defence service homes scheme. The Corporation undertook the first comprehensive review of the scheme since its inception 57 years ago. 
Until 1975 and the establishment of the Housing Corporation, changes to the scheme were made by  ad hoc  amendments. This  ad hoc  approach resulted in many undesirable consequences. In particular, most of the changes meant that the ordinary soldier, the private, the low income man, never really got the benefits. By and large, the people who really benefited were the senior members of the armed forces, the officers and the well-off- those who 'succeeded' in life. If the Government doubts this all it has to do is to look at the statistics which have been produced by the Housing Corporation. These statistics clearly demonstrate that the ordinary servicemen, past and present, have not received the benefits that the nation promised thembenefits that they cannot and now never will receive because of the way this scheme has been structured and administered in the past and, no doubt, will be restructured and administered in the future. 
It concerns us on this side of the House that the Government has not tabled the annual report of the Corporation, which demonstrates these inequities, even though the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  who had the responsibility for the Corporation, has had the report for at least 4 months. The Government is afraid to table this report before this debate because the information and recommendations in it embarrass the Government. The Government, for narrow sectional reasons, is not prepared to introduce the sweeping changes recommended in that report. There actually is a report on the whole war service homes scheme, or the defence service homes scheme as it is now known, which is a report of the Housing Corporation in which certain recommendations are made. The Government has had that report for 4 months. It will get the debate out of the way and then table the report. The Government's failure to table the report, as required by the legislation, is just another example of its mode of operation. The Government is deliberately keeping the people and the Parliament in the dark. By holding back the report and by ignoring the recommendations of the now defunct Australian Housing Corporation the Government is seeking to ignore the problems which have been apparent for some time in the defence service homes scheme. By holding back the report the Government is denying the Parliament the opportunity to properly debate this legislation. This is one other reason why we should oppose the Bill which is before us. The Government is deliberately maintaining a scheme which discriminates against those it was intended to help, that is the ordinary Australian servicemen, past and present. 
The Government is ensuring that this discriminatory practice will continue by replacing what was an 8-man corporation with a one-man body. I mean that the secretary of the Department of Veterans' Affairs will replace the Australian Housing Corporation. The effects of this will be regretted. The bureaucracy will take steps to ensure that the mode of operation and the administration of the defence service homes scheme, as it existed prior to 1975, will be reconstituted. This will result in 2 things. It means that Parliament will not have access to the detailed accounts and analyses of the operations of the defence service homes scheme. It also means that the morale of the officers employed in administering the scheme will be lowered. 
The very nature of the Australian Housing Corporation and the innovative programs it was going to administer in every area of housing made accountability and analysis mandatory. In the short life of the Housing Corporation major savings in administrative costs were made. This is something which this Government says it supports. It argues that it supports cuts in administrative costs. Here we have an example of this. The system of decentralised administration and accounting led to significant reductions of about 20 per cent in overhead costs. If the Corporation had continued to operate there is no doubt in our minds that the overhead costs could have been reduced by a further 10 per cent to 15 per cent. But now these savings will be lost as the administration of the scheme is once again centralised in Canberra. In the last 12 months, for the first time in 57 years, people involved in the administration of the defence service homes schemes have been given the opportunity to use their own initiative. In other words, the people in the Corporation were encouraged to use their initiative and to be involved more in the decision making process. This will now be taken away from them. 
Another area of the defence service homes scheme which caused the Australian Labor Party in government great concern and which led to the amalgamation of the scheme into the Australian Housing Corporation was the problem of land purchases by the old administrators of the defence service homes scheme and its lack of interrelationship with either Federal, State or local governments in urban and regional development strategies. Under the administration of past conservative governments large parcels of land were bought up in capital cities and in major centres throughout Australia. I do not for one moment say that the purchase of land is not a good thing. But this should be done in cooperation with State and local government and even with other government agencies. It should be done on a rational basis, knowing the time table of development, instead of building up an enormous bank because of a poor accountability system. Currently more than 1 200 hectares of underdeveloped land are held throughout the country. There has never been any responsible development or economic management plans for these estates. Similar parcels of land have been developed in the past on an  ad hoc  basis. They were developed without regard to the development strategies of local authorities or State governments, or of our overall urban and regional development planning trusts. In some cases their development led to the establishment of enclaves of wealthy returned servicemen. The worst example of this is the development of the North Rocks estate. The price of homes and land on that estate ranged from $35,000 to well over $55,000, with the majority of homes being in the top bracket. 
Obviously, when the maximum loan obtainable under the defence service homes scheme was $15,000 the ordinary serviceman or exserviceman on the average wage or even well above the average wage could not afford to purchase a home on such an estate unless he had owned a home previously and transferred the money from the sale of that home into the new war service home. A maximum loan of $15,000 was available and yet the purchase prices ranged up to $55,000. One can imagine the enormous total loan which would be necessary in order to meet that commitment. Later I shall incorporate in  Hansard  some tables to show the real debt burden remaining because of the high interest rates which exist today. In talking about high interest rates I exclude the defence service homes scheme. After all, if one wants to raise a loan to pay off a $55,000 home, the $15,000 loan is just a drop in the bucket. If schemes like this are to be meaningful and if they are to satisfy the housing needs of the ordinary serviceman or exserviceman, the maximum loan available has to be increased. 
-The Labor Government in 1973 increased the maximum loan from $12,000 to $15,000. But the latter figure is now insufficient. Today the maximum figure needs to be at least $20,000. With an amount of $20,000 available most of the ordinary servicemen would be catered for. It concerns me that this Government, when in Opposition, was critical of the Labor Government for introducing a waiting period for defence service home loans. But when this Government had the opportunity to shorten that period it refused to do so. In fact, it appropriated a much smaller amount this financial year than we appropriated in the last year in which we were in government. I have already said that the administration of the defence service homes scheme, while an important function of the Australian Housing Corporation, was only one function of that body. The Corporation was established to direct housing finance to those people who were being ignored by the existing housing market. There can be no doubt that everyone in the Parliament is aware of this problem. We know, as the Government knows, that people whose earnings currently fall between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earning cannot obtain housing finance from traditional sources. These people are deprived of the opportunity and benefit of home ownership. 
I have explained before, but I think I should explain again, that we were able to meet housing commitments of people earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly wages. We made money available through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. Previously under the old conservative government, the McMahon Government, this money was made available at the long term bond rate. Of course, written into the agreement was a tax rebate to meet the situation. When our Party came into government we reduced that rate from the long term bond rate to 4 per cent. The long term bond rate is about 10 per cent today. Therefore, that money was made available at a 6 per cent subsidy. People on housing commission waiting lists who earn up to 85 per cent of average weekly earnings can make application for that money. More money should be made available in order to reduce the number of people on the waiting lists. The interest on loans from the advance to the home builders account is at a slightly higher rate than 4 per cent- I think it is  An  per cent-and there is an administrative charge on that, making the total interest rate about 5 per cent for people earning between 85 per cent and 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. People up to that level have been protected, although the waiting lists are still excessive. But at least there are schemes in existence under which those people can get loans. 
The people in difficulties are those who earn between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. Later in the debate I will show that, because of actions of this Government in the last 2 weeks, that level of 135 per cent of average weekly earnings will be extended to 155 per cent. People earning between 95 per cent and 155 per cent will find themselves in a no man's land when they try to obtain a loan for land and housing. This will be true particularly in Sydney and Melbourne. We all know that banks and building societies do not lend where the rate of repayment exeeds 25 per cent to 30 per cent of earnings. What this means is that people who earn less than 135 per cent of average weekly earnings, or less than $248 a week, are denied the opportunity of home ownership. At least 88 per cent of all wage earners earn less than 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. So one can see that potential home ownership is in a quagmire. 
Young people and others seeking a home are facing a difficult situation. The Government knows this but has done nothing to face up to the problem. In fact the Government has refused to do anything for this group. It also knows that the repayment gap problem will worsen because of its mismanagement of the economy, particularly its actions in the last 2 weeks. The Government knows that interest rates will increase in the next year by at least 2 per cent. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, who is at the table, is aware that interest rates will rise by at least 2 per cent in the next year. The Government knows that this will add, on average, between $28 and $36 a month to the repayment gap faced by these people. The effect of this will be to deprive non-home owners earning up to 155 per cent of average weekly earnings of the opportunity to own their own homes. That is what the Government's economic policies will achieve in housing. Yet, recognising this, the Government goes on with its deliberate intention to abolish the Austraiian Housing Corporation, a body which was established to introduce programs and forms of assistance to ease the repayment gap. That such an organisation was needed was recognised under the Labor Government; such an organisation is needed even more today under the present Government. 
I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table of monthly repayments and total interest 
Said on loans of $15,000, $20,000, $25,000 and 30,000, which has been compiled by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Is he able to say which bodies, companies or individuals comprise the membership of the Australia-Indonesia Business Co-operation Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Is it true that, during the moratorium on nuclear weapons testing between 1958 and 1961, Australia co-operated with the British in conducting secret atomic 'trigger' tests at Maralinga and that waste and debris from these tests were buried at Maralinga? Will the Minister institute an inquiry into these matters? If this information is true, will he recommend that a royal commission be appointed to inquire into all aspects of such tests and the burial of nuclear waste at Maralinga? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the principles laid down by his Department regarding use of lands set aside for recreational purposes, which have not been leased to organisations, by (a) individuals, (b) non-profit making community and sporting groups and (c) individuals or organisations intending to make profits. 
In particular, are charges made by the Department for use of lands, such as the area surrounding Forest Park Riding School, when they are used by individuals who run private riding schools for personal gain. 
If charges are not made in those cases involving profit seeking individuals or profit making organisations, why not 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) To what use has the Government put the proceeds of all short term borrowings abroad since January 1976, and have some of these proceeds been re-invested on the New York or any other short-term money markets. 
If any proceeds have been used for re-investment on short-term money markets, what was the interest rate paid by the Australian Government on the borrowed funds and what was the rate recovered by the Australian Government from the short-term loan in each case. 
What intermediaries or banks were used in this laying off process. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Which pastoral companies in Northern Australia, including the Northern Territory, have negotiated or maintained previously existing contracts to supply meat to (a) Japan, (b) the United Kingdom, (c) the United States of America and (d) the European Economic Community in the last 12 months. 
) What was the quantity of meat to be supplied by these companies, and what was the country of destination. 
Is he able to say which of the companies referred to in Part (1) have either (a) a majority foreign shareholding or (b) a minority foreign shareholding, and what are the details of the foreign shareholding in each case. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What instructions have been given to the Foreign Investment Review Board to enable them to follow the Government's investment guidelines. 
What applications for foreign investment considered by the Review Board have been accepted. 
What is the level of Australian ownership in each case accepted by the Review Board. 
Who is the major foreign investor in each proposal accepted, and which interest will exercise majority control over each enterprise. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Indonesian Government indicated through diplomatic channels that Australian companies with petroleum and mineral concessions in East Timor will be welcome to stay if they negotiate their rights with the Indonesian Government 
If so, has the Australian Government informed these companies that it does not recognise East Timor as being under the legal suzerainty of Indonesia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many immigrants under the 'South African and Other African' classification have entered Australia since 13 December 1975. 
2 ) How many of these have come from Rhodesia. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he state, during the weekend of 4 and 5 December 1976, that the Reserve Bank had been instructed to insulate the rural sector from any interest rate rises flowing from the devaluation of 17½ per cent. 
Have interest rates risen as a result of the devaluation of 17½ per cent, if so, by how much. 
If the Reserve Bank is operating to insulate the rural sector from interest rate rises, what is the estimated cost of this concession over a full year. 
If bank interest rates have not risen, what sources of rural credit controlled by Reserve Bank operations was he referring to. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Have any Australian intelligence agencies within his Department resumed contacts with the South African Bureau of State Security. 
If so, which agencies are involved and on which country's initiative were these contacts resumed. 
What is the nature of the subjects involved in these contacts. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has  Sir Colin  Hannah's dormant commission as an Administrator of the Commonwealth been revived. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Government used financial intermediaries in its foreign loan raisings since 1 3 December 1 975. 
If so, what are the names of the financial intermediaries used. 
What were the terms and conditions of each loan raising and, in particular, what were the rates of commission offered in respect of each loan. 
What commissions have been paid or have been contracted for in connection with these foreign loan raisings, and to whom have they been paid or to whom are they contracted. 
What is the total foreign borrowings by the Australian Government since 13 December 1975. 
Was Loan Council approval sought in each case. 
Which of these borrowings were for temporary purposes, and what is the nature of these temporary purposes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the amount appropriated for expenditure by the Department of Social Security in the division of Macarthur in the financial years 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
What was the amount actually expended by the Department in the division of Macarthur in each of the same years. 
-The question is that this Government does not want to discuss this matter with record inflation, record unemployment - 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the Deputy Leader of the Opposition be not further heard. 
-No government in the history of this nation has been as disastrous as this Government. The Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony ) talked about deception. How deceptive, how snide, how treacherous is this Government of which the Leader of the National Country Party is a member. How treacherous is a government which attained office in the way this Government did. The Deputy Prime Minister talked about reducing interest rates recently, when he was Acting Prime Minister. What happened? What was the true action of the Government during that period of time? During the period of time he was Acting Prime Minister the Reserve Bank was acting on the money market and forcing interest rates up. At the same time the Treasurer (Mr Lynch)  had written to all the Premiers advising them to fill their State loans on the money market at the higher interest rates. This will mean a flow on and higher interest rates will be charged across the country. The  Deputy  Prime Minister talks about the record of this Government Let us consider the agricultural areas which he represents. On the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates, farm incomes will drop by 8 per cent this year after devaluation. That is the action of this Government. That is the action which it represents. 
Since this Parliament last met, early in December, there has been a disastrous decline in the national economy. The dimensions of the malaise which is afflicting our work force and the domestic economy show up with the clarity of all the indicators. The Fraser Government s only response to the terrible situation which it created is to blame the trade union movement, to blame the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, to lecture the Australian businessmen and to criticise the Australian consumers for not spending. It will not do anything to promote a recovery, although this could be done without causing inflationary pressures. It marks time in the hope that the massive unemployment will bring down inflation-a hope that is founded on an illusion. The last shreds of last year's strategy were destroyed by devaluation. 
We have been given no economic strategy for 1977 and it is likely that we will not get one. At the same time we can predict the strategy for 1978 will be a belated bid to reflate the economy with an eye on the elections of 1 978. This panic reaction will come much too late and will sow the seeds of further inflation and economic stagnation. In the meantime, unemployment will be forced up even further and the services and facilities which only the public sector can provide will be run down below the present dangerous levels. I stress the phrase 'below the present dangerous levels'. Yet this is the Government which grabbed power in the most brutal way because it claimed: 'We are better economic managers'. That is the only thing that the Fraser Government ever had going for it. The media created in the minds of the electorate the impression that the Fraser Government could manage the economy better than could Labor. That has been proved to be a myth. Quite clearly this Government is the worst economic manager in the history of our nation. It has taken an economy which was showing signs of recovery after a difficult period and plunged it into the depths of depression and economic malaise. 
That picture emerges in all of the economic indicators. Unemployment is up from 265 000 in the last month that Labor was in office to 354 000 in January this year. The total number of workers in employment has actually fallen. When Labor was sacked in November 1975 inflation was running at an annual rate of 12.1 per cent and was falling. Now the situation is so bad that the Government is deliberately delaying the release of the December consumer price index figures until after the Western Australian election next Saturday. There is no doubt that we are looking now at an annual rate of inflation of at least 16 per cent. Gross domestic production is almost at a standstill. In real terms there has been almost no growth over the past year. Interest rates are moving upwards, despite the efforts of the  Deputy  Prime Minister to talk them down. If we look at the deficit, which is the indicator the Government dwelt on most heavily when in Opposition, we see that it is running well in excess of what was envisaged in the Hayden Budget. 
In most areas production is down. To take some of the more important sectors, the production figures for coal, iron ore, lead, electricity, gas, raw steel and cement are down. So depressed is the manufacturing sector that energy consumption in Australia has fallen. This continuing decline in energy production is perhaps the most drastic aspect of the present economic situation. The figures reveal that the rural sector is also in a depressed state with no sign of recovery. The only indicator which has shown a constant upward trend is the level of savings bank deposits. That is an indication of the lack of faith of the community in the economic policies of the Government. Yet in these difficult circumstances there is no response from the Government. It takes no action to evolve any sort of package to induce economic recovery. Treasury is still shattered by the impact of the devaluation which destroyed its old strategy. 
The tragedy of this criminal inertia on the part of the Government and its advisers is that there is scope in the economy for a stimulus. There is no reason why an economic revival, induced by selective government action, would be inflationary. Unused capacity exists in all of the productive sectors of the economy. A selected package of government measures could be introduced to take up excess capacity and get crucial sections of industry on the move. The Treasurer admitted in December last year that excess capacity exists. I refer to an answer he gave to a question asked in the House of Representatives on 6 December by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean).  According to the Treasurer, at a time of excess capacity stimulatory measures need not be inflationary. That shows that the Government accepts that unused capacity exists and could be utilised. Yet it refuses to work out the selective measures which could revive activity and bring employment back to many areas. 
I cite as one example the building and construction industry where there has been unused capacity since early in 1 975, particularly in New South Wales. The Labor Government recognised that slack existed in that area and that the whole industry was urgently in need of stimulus. We devised a system whereby the private sector would build new office blocks at strategic locations in metropolitan areas and growth centres on the guarantee that the Australian Government would use those buildings to house its public servants. In that way up to $80m could have been pumped into the vital construction sector. It would not have been inflationary because the commitment of Commonwealth funds would have been deferred and no payment would have been made by the Australian Government for at least 2 years. Yet these investment and employment creating programs were scrapped as soon as the Fraser Government came to office. They should have been included as a part of the package of measures undertaken by the Government to stimulate the manufacturing industries and other sectors of the economy where unused capacity exists. The Government has failed to produce this stimulus. 
In fact, the only stimulus it has applied is to the mining sector. By overgenerous tax concessions, by a massive devaluation and by its permissive approach to foreign capital inflow, it has sought to stimulate the mining sector. The tragedy of this sort of investment is that it is highly capital intensive and creates very little employment. Furthermore, the bulk of the mining investment is in remote areas away from the industrial areas in which the masses of the people are unemployed and are concentrated. The mining investment cannot solve the recession which now confronts us, nor can it make inroads into the numbers of unemployed. This Government must create employment and stimulate the regional economies where the unemployment exists and where it is growing. That is in our capital cities and our regional centres. 
Speculators have ripped off immense amounts of Australia's national wealth over the past 2 months. Now we see the surge of overseas speculative capital back into Australia with an inflow of more than $1 billion since the beginning of December. Even for the speculators who back the Fraser Government, life was not meant to be that easy. We have seen speculators taking profits on a scale unsurpassed in our history. At least in one sense it can be said that the Fraser Government has created a  Utopia-  a  Utopia  for the wealthy speculators. This has been the end result of a year of deliberately conceived and applied economic policy, a policy which subsided into chaos on 17 November. The Treasurer, in his Budget Speech last year, summed up his economic strategy in these terms: 
The way in which the various elements of the Budget slot into the anti-inflationary strategy highlights the importance of looking at all our policies- fiscal policy, monetary policy, wages policy and external policy as a unified and coherent whole. No single component of this strategy can fail without putting the basic objective under threat. 
There is no doubt that devaluation has destroyed what the Treasurer described as the Government's external policy. The devaluation and the uncertainties it produced in setting a stable exchange rate provide unshakable evidence of the failure of the Government's external policy. 
The Government has conceded it. If we apply this failure to the Treasurer's statement we find that he has accepted the destruction of the Government's total economic strategy. External policy has failed and according to the economic Logic of the Treasurer, so also have the other 3 components of the Government's economic policy- fiscal policy, monetary policy and wage policy. The unified and coherent strategy which the Treasurer stressed so strongly has been reduced to rubble. Yet no efforts have been made to replace it. The Government has panicked and has lost its economic nerve, perhaps beyond redemption. 
I want to look at the grave imbalance which has been developed between the Government's commitment to the private sector, or at least to the privileged part of the private sector, and its neglect of the public sector. On 18 January this year I had the sad experience of spending several days at the train disaster in the Sydney suburb of Granville which is in my electorate. I do not want to dwell on this, nor do I want there to be any suggestion of political criticisms in what I say. It may well be that this is an area in which all governments could have done better. The point I want to make is that the Granville tragedy provided a very valuable lesson for us all. There has been a very serious erosion of our urban infrastructure for many years. Granville is evidence of this running down of basic services and facilities in the vital area of urban public transport. People outside the high income areas of our cities are more reliant upon public services than those within those areas. It may justly be said that if these services are not provided by the public sector of the economy many people are denied these services. In Sydney the people who bear the brunt of the general neglect of urban services are the people living in the western and southwestern suburbs. In Melbourne it is the people of the western, the northern and the north-western suburbs, and there are many deficiencies in the eastern corridor as well. The same pattern prevails to a lesser degree in our other major cities. 
Urban services such as the railways are part of the public sector of the economy. They are necessary both for the quality of life of people and, in many cases, for the survival of those who live in many of our urban areas. In many ways these services are sub-standard and in some cases dangerous, as the Granville disaster revealed. These services will never be improved in the present climate of scaling down the public sector of the economy.  (Extension of time granted)  This is why I find the present mentality of public sector bashing that this Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and this Government have encouraged to be so odious- so odious that they in fact consider that it is all right to spend money in the private sector of the economy but that it is a crime to spend money in the public sector. Therefore, we want at least to try to lift the standard of living of those people who have to rely upon the public sector. For far too long there has been private affluence and public squallor. One must realise that if there is to be any real stimulus in the private sector of the economy, the only way it can come about is through the public sector, because it is only when the people have confidence, that the Government has confidence in the economy that there will be a real revival in the economy. Put in the simplest terms. State services such as the railways cannot be raised to acceptable standards while State governments lack federal funds. 
The same arguments can be applied across the board to the whole range of urban services. This is where we see exposed the fallacy that somehow the economy can be restored by shifting resources from the public sector to the private sector. The economy cannot recover only by the stripping down of funds provided by Government for basic services such as transport, sewerage and welfare housing. There is no way that the private sector can fill the gap. It is self evident that the profit motive will not give basic services to lower income earners. The whole structure of public capital investment which has been built up to supply these services cannot be described as adequate. This approach, an approach per- petuated by this Government is not the answer because it forces people back onto the roads, from inadequate public transport to the private motor car. It only increases the problems of clogged urban roads and, with it, ever increasing deaths and injuries. If we accept that these urban services are vital there needs to be a marked change in the attitudes of this Government. This and all future governments must accept that the public sector has a crucial place in the economy. A stimulus now to the public sector would assist to take up the unused capacity in the private sector. Again, it would assist to give confidence to the private sector and begin a reduction in the level of unemployment. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  expressing a want of confidence in this Government. It is a government which by deliberate choice has created a generation of young people without hope. This is the situation with thousands of school leavers. It is a government whose gross economic failures have earned it distrust and have created disquiet at home and have earned it contempt abroad. Above all, it is a government which has shown beyond all doubt that it is the worst manager of the national economy ever seen in the history of this country. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
What are the names of the major iron ore, coal, alumina and non-ferrous mining companies operating in Australia with export contracts. 
What is the ownership of each of these companies. 
3 ) Which of these companies have existing contracts written in $A, $US or each of the other basket currencies. 
What is the estimated gain for each of these companies to June 1977, as a result of the Government's decision to devalue by 17Vi percent. 
What is the estimated loss for each of those companies to June 1977, as a result of the Government's decision to revalue by 2 per cent, 9 days after devaluing by 1 7V4 per cent. 
What will the effect of the changes in valuation on British Petroleum's moves to acquire all or part of Clutha Development Ltd. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say which Australian or Australian-based companies currently hold oil or mineral exploration licences in East Timor. 
Which Australian or Australian-based companies have held oil or mineral exploration licences in East Timor since 1 966 but do not currently hold such licences. 
If Australian or Australian-based companies have held or are holding licences of the type referred to in parts (1) and (2), is he able to say who are the major shareholders in the companies concerned. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Have any Australian intelligence agencies within his Department resumed contacts with the South African Bureau of State Security. 
If so, which agencies are involved and on which country's initiative were these contacts resumed. 
What is the nature of the subjects involved in these contacts. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the amount allocated to tourism projects funded by the Department of Tourism and Recreation in the Division of Macarthur in each of the financial years 1 972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
What amounts were actually spent in each of those years. 
What amount has been allocated for tourism projects in that Division in 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the amount appropriated for expenditure by his Department in the Division of Macarthur in the financial years 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
What was the amount actually expended by the Department in the Division of Macarthur in each of the same years. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has action been taken recently by official sources to force up interest rates and to compel State governments' borrowing programs to be floated in terms of these higher interest rates? What part do these interest rate increases play in the Government's current economic strategy? Are they consistent with the Treasurer's promises made in the weeks after the devaluation that there would be no such increases? 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact, as reported in a Sydney newspaper on 13 January, that Western Australia is likely to lose up to $ 14m- the profit of its mining boom- in general purpose payments when the Government proceeds with its plan to change the relativities between the States? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What sum was spent by the previous Government on projects in the South West Sector, with the exception of the Holsworthy project, under the Department of Urban and Regional Development in the years 1972-73, 1973-74 and 1974- 75. 
What sum was allocated in the Budget of 1975-76 for the South West Sector/Macarthur Growth Centre. 
How much of the allocation in pan (2) was spent in 1975- 76. 
Was a lesser amount spent as a result of his Department 's or the Government 's actions. 
Were any contracts cancelled as a result of these actions. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What amount of funds was allocated via expenditure by the Department of Urban and Regional Development for the Division of Macarthur during 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
What amount of funds was allocated via expenditure by the Department of Urban and Regional Development for the South West Sector within the Division of Macarthur during the same years. 
What amount of funds was allocated via expenditure by the Department of Urban and Regional Development for the South West Sector/Macarthur Growth Centre, excluding the Holsworthy area, during the same years. 
How much of the allocation referred to in parts ( 1 ), 
and (3) was spent. 
What was the amount allocated under expenditure by his Department for 1976-77 in terms of parts (1), (2) and (3) . 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the amount allocated to recreation projects funded by the Department of Tourism and Recreation in the Division of Macarthur in each of the financial years 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
What amounts were actually spent on each of those years. 
What amount has been allocated for recreation projects in that Division in 1976-77. 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry noted in the publication of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics,  Trends in Australian Agricultural Commodities; Farm Costs and Farm Incomes,  issued in December 1976, that real income per farm will have fallen from $ 1 5,900 in 1973 to $5,700 in 1976-77. That is, this financial year real income per farm is anticipated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to be only 36 per cent of what it was in 1973 and, by a long way, the lowest since that year. As the Minister clearly implied when in opposition that suitable policies would overcome the fall in farm income, will he outline what policies he has in hand to lift the seriously depressed level of farm incomes? 
-My grievance is that the Fraser Government unilaterally is trying to force the State governments of Australia to agree to the changing of the existing CommonwealthState Housing Agreement in a way that will create hardship for many existing tenants of welfare housing and will create inequity between the needy poor and other less affluent people in our country. The Fraser Government is intent upon forcing the States to pay the long term bond interest rate of 10.5 per cent per annum on loans for welfare housing. As a consequence, the tenants of welfare housing will pay rents at the current market level. The present interest rate, which was set by the Whitlam Labor Government, for those who receive a rental house under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement is 4 per cent per annum. Of the loan under the Agreement 70 per cent is used for dwelling construction by Housing Commissions while the other 30 per cent of the loan is used by terminating building societies to assist eligible families to buy their own homes. This is made available by the Government to the States at  4¥i  per cent. 
While there may be some long term reason in the Fraser Government's proposals from a rational economic point of view, in immediate terms the decision is both callous and cruel and  horn  a human point of view it is full of weaknesses. It brands the Fraser Government as an arrant centralist. The Fraser Government did not ask the States how they considered the Agreement could be improved; it just set down the edict from Canberra. Is this a part of Fraser 's federalism? There can be no doubt that if this proposal is bludgeoned through by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  the immediate effect on many tenants of Housing Commission dwellings will be a large increase in rental rates. In Sydney some rents would rise from $25 a week to $80 a week. No family, no matter how well off it might be, should be faced with such a large immediate increase- such an instantaneous shock to the family budget. The situation will be similar in all States, including Western Australia, where an election will be held on Saturday. Even by Prime Minister Fraser 's standards, life was not meant to be that hard. 
-Some wild allegations have been made by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  (Mr Newman)  that Opposition members have used the Grievance Debate this morning to try to stir and to worry needy people, people living in housing commission homes, by saying that their rents may go up. The Minister has said that we were the ones responsible for the situation. Of course discussion has already taken place in open public forum between 3 State Labor Premiers and the Minister. Those State Premiers have made certain allegations. Am I giving false information? Let me quote from the letter of the Minister to his counterparts in the States. In part it reads: 
I was able to obtain from Cabinet issues of principles and definitions of objectives relevant to options available for future welfare housing in the States. These are set out fully in the attachment to this letter. 
in respect of rental housing through the State Housing Authority: 
1 ) capital funds for the construction and purchase of dwellings by State housing authorities should not be at subsidised interest rates. 
-I read those words clearly in order to give their intent. 
-The Minister says: 'Read the letter'. I do not intend to do so. Let him table this letter to clear up the matter here and now. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the amount appropriated for expenditure by the Department of Education in the Division of Macarthur in the financial years 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
What was the amount expended by the Department in the Division of Macarthur in each of the same years. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Does the Treasurer agree that the level of demand today is lower than that necessary to clear all economic output at a satisfactory profit? If he cannot disapprove this, will he at least provide funds to re-employ people who have lost their jobs and to assist those poorer people who have suffered most severely  From  inflation? 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. He will be aware of the 25-year record rise of 6 per cent in the consumer price index announced yesterday, the under-subscription of the February loan and the continuing inflationary effect of devaluation. Does he agree that these factors are certain to force interest rates up and lead to a further severe credit squeeze? In view of these circumstances, what action does the Treasurer now propose to take to keep interest rates down and to ensure that the economy is supplied with sufficient funds to maintain even the existing low level of employment and output? 
-We on this side of the House are seeking a guarantee that this matter will be placed on the notice paper when the Parliament resumes after being prorogued. We on this side would support any action taken by the Government which does something of a positive nature for the youth of this nation, because we believe that if there is one section of the Australian community now suffering from the present economic constraints imposed by the Fraser Government it is the young people of this nation. For instance, the unemployment figures show that something like 44 per cent of those unemployed are under the age of 21 years. Of the total number of unemployed in the country at the end of January this year some 156 000 were juniors. Although our youth represent only 1 1.2 per cent of the work force, they account for 44 per cent of those unemployed in the work force. 
Let us look at particular areas of Australia. For instance, one report reveals that in the nonmetropolitan areas, particularly in the rural areas of New South Wales, some 600 applications were made for every job vacancy registered at the labour exchange. In the western suburbs of Sydney, and in particular the position at the labour exchanges in Granville, Blacktown and Parramatta, the position is that in Granville 3320 people are unemployed, and of that number 1 56 1 or 47 per cent are under the age of 2 1 years. Of that number 657 are females. The position in the Blacktown area, which is represented by my colleague the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  is even worse. Of the 3484 people unemployed, 1948 or 55.9 per cent are under 21 years of age of which 885 are females. The position in Parramatta is that 51.5 per cent of those unemployed-the number of unemployed is not as high in that area- are under the age of 2 1 years. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which sets out the unemployment figures for the western suburbs of Sydney. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="103131197702245_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The situation is bad. Circumstances have developed to such an extent, because of the broad brush approach the Government has taken to the whole economy. Because of this attitude the youth of this nation are suffering most. I wish to refer to a survey made by the Brotherhood of St Laurence and which is summarised in the submission of the Australian Council of Social Services. It reads:  the long-term consequences of young people being unemployed over a long period are stated as: 
a ) Loss of faith in society and government. 
Development of anti-work attitudes. 
Development of habits that would mitigate against future employment. 
Damage of feelings of self-esteem. 
Family tensions arise as young people fail to get employed. 
Trouble with the law. With nowhere to go and nothing to do, larceny and vandalism is a potential development. 
Getting used to managing on benefits and seeing no advantage in working for a slightly higher income in a routine job when they have no particular skill to sell. 
Because of the position this Government has taken in economic strategy, that is the position in which the great bulk of the youth of this nation find themselves today. The question I ask the House is this: Is the report which has been tabled by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  a smokescreen or is the Government really concerned about the youth of the nation? I ask this because we find the following on the front page of this morning 's  Sydney Morning Herald: 
Government M.P .s urge clamp on ' dole bludgers '. 
That illustrates the Government's psychology on this matter. It has tried to stigmatise the young people of this country as dole bludgers. This report of the Study Group on Youth Affairs which has been presented by the Prime Minister does not provide any positive solution to the social problems of young people. The Government is going to continue to play a hard line in the economy. It is going to continue to draw money away from the public sector, which will greatly affect those young people. The Government is going to draw money away from the wage earners and is going to direct it to big business, many of which are powerful foreign-owned interests. That is the psychology of this Government. There were programs that were effectively assisting the youth of our nation. For instance, programs under the Department of Tourism and Recreation, for which the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  was Minister when we were in government, made $6m available for recreation and sporting facilities for Australians, particularly the young, in each of the last 2 financial years in which Labor governed. But these programs were scuttled immediately the present Government came into office although it agreed to admit some of the outstanding commitments. Another program that has been scuttled- of course, opposition has come from even the Government back benchers for this move- is the Australian Assistance Plan. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has publicly expressed criticism of the abandonment of the Australian Assistance Plan. Yet we read at page 10 of the report tabled by the Prime Minister: 
Better co-ordination at the local level was given high priority; some favoured the maintenance of an Australian Assistance Plan-type structure for this purpose. 
But this Government did not try to develop or to maintain the Australian Assistance Plan or its structures. It scrapped the Plan completely. I believe this Government is a government of hypocrisy. I believe that the establishment of an office of youth affairs is a smokescreen. I think the true intentions of the Government and its back benchers are expressed clearly on the front page of the  Sydney Morning Herald,  which states: 
The Federal Government will consider issuing identity cards to persons receiving unemployment benefits as a means of cutting down on cases of fraud. 
The card, containing a photograph and possibly a number - 
The Government wants to give people numbers. They want to brand the numbers on the backs of the young people, the same as is done to criminals, or on the chest, as is done to people in the Army! The article continues to state that this: 
. would aim to prevent people using false names and concealing earnings. 
The suggestion, which has been implemented in North America and some European countries, attracted considerable interest at today's weekly meeting of the Government Parties during a debate of more than two hours on the economy. 
Concern over ' dole bludgers ' and ways of clamping down on them was expressed repeatedly in speeches by back benchers. 
That illustrates the real philosophy- the real attitudeof this Government and its supporters. It does not want really to try to solve the grave social problems involved. We all know of the record level of unemployment in this country. Unemployment has never been higher. Over 40 per cent of those unemployed are people under 2 1 years of age. As I said, in certain areas, particularly the western suburbs of Sydney and country areas, the position is much worse. I do not believe that the establishment of an office of youth affairs in any way provides an answer to the problem. I might say that even the Prime Minister, in tabling the report, said: 
. There are important long term social and economic trends which have significant implications for young people . . . 
There are long term implications for young people. These are grave and widespread, particularly in the western world. There have been plenty of indications of high levels of unemployment and these high levels are being compounded. A study undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which is the club of the rich western countries, has indicated that unemployment in most of the 26 countries represented in the Organisation, of which Australia is one, will stay at the higher levels of 1974 for at least the next S years. The study indicated that this will be the case even if inflation is brought under control and economic recovery is 'efficiently' managed. 
Clearly a brave approach has to be adopted by the Government today to solve the problem of the youth of this nation. No action has been taken by this Government. The mentality of the Government and its back benchers which calls the young people of this nation 'dole bludgers' has to stop. We have to have confidence in the young people. Young people have lost faith in we old people. We have to have a better understanding of them. There can be no doubt that the young have lost a great deal of faith in the older people of the nation. 
We notice also from the statement made by the Prime Minister that after 6 months or 12 months the Government will set up a youth advisory council. Why does not the Government involve the youth in the early stages and find out what they want. Why does the Government need to involve only old senior bureaucrats from within the Australian Public Service at this stage? Unless the Government understands and involves the young people, who really are suffering psychologically, there will be no solution to this problem and the office of youth affairs will achieve nothing. I say quite clearly to the Government and to all members of this Parliament: Let us drop this term 'dole bludgers'; let us start to have some faith in and some respect for the young people of this nation. If we do we might be able to get better co-operation from them. 
Above all, this Government must look at its economic policies because the deep rooted line that it has taken in its policies is the thing that is creating the real problem for young people. I believe that that is the most basic cause of the problem. Let us solve the problem and at the same time let us adopt a more humane attitude. Let us try to re-introduce some of the policies that were carried out under the Labor Government. Let us not scrap the AAP program or the recreation and other programs until we have better programs to put in their places. I believe that if we do scrap those programs there will be a great deal more suffering in this community. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has a company called the Vinnell Corporation ever been registered in Australia. 
If so, (a) where was it registered, (b) when was it registered and (c) in what activities was it engaged. 
If the Vinnell Corporation has ceased operations in Australia, when and why did this occur. 
If it has ceased operations, have the activities of the Corporation been absorbed, in any way, by any other company or companies, body or group of individuals. 
If their activities have been so absorbed, what company or companies, body or group of individuals were in the absorption. 
Has the Vinnell Corporation had any connection with any Australian Government department, authority or agency. 
If so, which Australian Government bodies, and what has been the nature of the connection. 
Have the Vinnell Corporation's activities in Australia been in any way associated with any United States military or foreign policy instrumentality. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the amount appropriated for expenditure by his Department in the Division of Macarthur in the financial years 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
What was the amount actually expended by his Department in the Division of Macarthur in each of the same years. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government decided to review the automatic consumer price index adjustments to pensions and the unemployment benefit embodied in the Social Services Amendment Act of 1976? If it has not, will the Prime Minister give his assurance that the CPI adjustments as currently enacted will continue? 
-I ask the Treasurer In view of the figures released yesterday showing a marked decline in lending for January by permanent building societies- a decline of 12.7 per cent over December and of 2 1 .4 per cent over the previous January- at a time when building societies have ample funds, can the Treasurer explain the logic behind the Government's direction under which the Reserve Bank has asked the permanent building societies to restrict lending? Can the Treasurer explain also the logic behind this attack on the dwelling construction industry, which has been one of the few industries showing genuine growth? 
-The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  talked about the good things that had occurred in his electorate. He omitted to mention other things that have occurred in his electorate, such as the stopping of the area improvement program and the reduction in the special assistance provided to local government and councils like those in the Queanbeyan Shire and the shires on the South Coast of New South Wales. He also omitted to mention what happened to the assistance that was formerly given under the Australian Assistance Plan. How good is that now? It has ceased. The honourable member talked about how well the people of Eden-Monaro have fared under this Government and how farm income has fared under this Government. In this financial year alone there has been a drop of 30 per cent in farm income; even after devaluation the reduction is running at 8 per cent. The honourable member represents a semi-rural electorate. Farm income has decreased by 36 per cent since 1973. Farm income has fallen from $15,900 in 1973 to $5,700 in 1976. That shows how the rural sectors of this country are suffering under this Government. Farm income is at the lowest level of any year since 1973. 
We all know that the Queen has a duty to mouth the words prepared for her by the government of the day. I intend no disrespect to the Monarch by describing the Speech before the House as the most deeply disturbing I have ever heard. It is a speech which should stir every Australian to a very deep anger. It is very much a statement of the personal philosophy of one man- Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser. We all know that for many years the Prime Minister has given a weekly broadcast to his electorate. These talks provide the most damaging expression of Malcolm Fraser's narrow ideology and his reactionary outlook on politics and the economy. The Queen's address was phrased in the style of Malcolm Fraser's sermons to his electorate. If the text was slipped into the sequence of the Wannon electorate broadcasts I doubt whether anyone could tell the difference. 
I refer the Foreign Minister to reports of threats of reprisals by the Indonesian Government against Australian persons and property should  Mr Jim  Dunn give evidence of Indonesian atrocities in East Timor to the House Committee on International Relations of the United States Congress. I ask the Minister to reaffirm the rights of all Australians to take part in political activity and to assure the House that  Mr Dunn,  like any other citizen, will have the full protection of the Australian Government while overseas. 
Has the Minister for Transport or his Department advised the State Ministers for Transport or their departments that the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act will no longer be operative in regard to State road programs, particularly freeway projects? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to reports that the Government is considering cutbacks in social welfare expenditure. Are measures such as restoring the means test on pensions, including repatriation pensions, being contemplated? Can the Treasurer give the House a firm guarantee that these measures will not be introduced? 
-The honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Wentworth)  summed up his speech clearly when he mentioned the term 'empty lands'. The honourable member is a 'populate or perish' man.  His  whole mentality and the mentality of his Government has been directed towards that approach for many years. Within that mentality is the idea that unless we populate, this country will perish. That is the mentality of the Government and, of course, there has been no real change from that position. For 23 years from 1949 to 1972 Liberal-Country Party Governments increased the population of this country by approximately 1.9 per cent per year. That increase consisted of 1 . 1 per cent natural growth and 0.8 per cent immigration. The whole concept, of course, was if that growth had continued until 2000, there would be approximately 23 million people living in this country. Between 1972 and the year 2000 the increase would have been of the order of 10 million. 
Most of those people would have been incorporated into Sydney and Melbourne. That was the situation between 1950 and 1970. Over 60 per cent of the population that flowed into this country settled in those areas. Consequently, the living conditions in those areas became extremely poor. Living standards of Sydney and Melbourne have suffered greatly because of the unplanned position of Liberal-Country Party Governments in those years. State and local governments were starved of their funds and, consequently, the living standards of those areas were appalling. In 1972 the people in those areas revolted against that situation. It is for that reason that we must look at the whole population situation. I place on record that the immigrants who came into this country made a great contribution. Many of them suffered because they were forced to move out to the fringes of Sydney and Melbourne and were forced into poor living conditions during those years. Therefore, I believe that a more rational position should be reached. 
Let me examine the Green Paper on immigration and population which is before us. There is a fair amount of sound content in the Green Paper. Despite that content we must question the point and the value of the exercise. At best the paper brings together a number of arguments and much material with which we are completely familiar. It breaks no new ground. There is no reason why it should. The Green Paper follows hard on the heels of the Borrie report. The Borrie report provided a detailed and extensive analysis of our population growth, using all the resources of demography. I had many criticisms to make of the Borne report. Many of its assumptions and the conclusions drawn from them will be proved to be invalid. 
The expertise employed in the preparation of the report is difficult to challenge at this stage. I point out to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and to the House that if a comparison were made between that report and the reports and the studies that have been made in Canada, United States, the United Kingdom and other parts of the world it would be found to be in fact an extremely poor report. The projections of the Borrie report may turn out to be sadly astray. All projections are liable to be proved to be ridiculous. Just to give one example, a population inquiry which was held during the last world war found that with existing fertility rates Australia's population would not reach a maximum of 9 million people. Furthermore, the report of that inquiry said that there would be a decline in absolute numbers during the 1980s. We know that to be completely false. The Borrie report may prove to be just as wrong. To its credit, I might say, the Borrie report was very cautious in its projections. It stressed the chances of error in attempting this sort of exercise. 
In formulating a national population policy we have to use the Borrie report as a starting point. Certainly the document before the House at the moment is no substitute. All it does is draw together most of the arguments and presents them in a fairly neutral form. There are no concrete proposals before us at the present time. Another full scale inquiry into population growth would not be justified until some time in the 1980s. It is up to the Australian Bureau of Statistics to monitor population movements until the next inquiry is held. Using the Borrie yardstick we can expect a population of approximately 16 million people by the end of the century if we rely only on natural growth and exclude immigration. That means that even with a lower fertility rate we can expect a significant increase in population. The crucial question for policy making is whether we accept that target figure and adjust our policies to it or whether we accept 16 million people as a base which can be increased quite substantially by a deliberate immigration policy of allowing in up to 20 million or even more new migrants. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and those people who really fear the elements to our north and who have the populate-or-perish mentality say that we can do that, but I question whether they will be any more secure if we increase that number to 23 million. In fact, because of consequent internal problems they may be far more insecure. Each choice presents immensely important questions about the allocation of resources. Quite clearly acceptance only of natural growth puts much less strain on resource allocation. The impact of population growth is dispersed over a much greater span of years. But we have certain human obligations to meet. There are many human problems involved. For instance, the biggest human problem facing this country at the present time is concerned with the Lebanese question. No electorate- in Australia has to meet that problem more than does my electorate which incorporates the Rosehill and Harris Park districts in the Parramatta area with enormous concentration of Lebanese people. My electoral office receives enormous numbers of inquiries from people about making applications on behalf of others who want to come into the country. I will be doing whatever I can to arrange family reunions. It is an extremely human problem. Therefore, we must encourage the reunion of families. There is also the political question to consider. I believe that political refugees, particularly those from countries such as East Timor or Chile, should be allowed to come here. 
Heavy immigration programs impose immediate burdens on resource allocation and can cause gross distortions in our economy. My attitude to population growth- I have expressed this attitude on many occasions in this House- is that a population of around 17.S million would be the est target for Australia by the end of the century. Natural population growth, as predicted by the Borrie report, would account for more than half of the population growth required. A target of 17.5 million people would require an annual population increase of about 1.1 per cent between now and the turn of the century. That 1.1 per cent would include both natural growth and immigration. The natural growth would need to be supplemented by a modest immigration program. That would mean that our allocation of resources to education, health, social welfare, and urban and regional development could be planned without risk of dislocation. 
There is one major question which has been neglected by both the Borrie report and the Green Paper. I refer to the question of internal population movement. We will know more about that important aspect of policy when and if the census figures are fully analysed. We know that there has been quite a sharp movement away from the traditional centres of population. People are tending to move northwards, particularly to Queensland but also to the north coast of New South Wales. There has been a slighter movement inland from south east coastal regions, but it is too early to assess the importance of that trend. We know also that there has been strong population growth in Western Australia and, to a lesser extent, in South Australia, even without a major immigration program these trends will continue. There is no doubt that an important redistribution of population within Australia is under way. 
That raises important questions about the use of resources, and that is a topic which the Green Paper should have tackled. The Green Paper in no way has dealt with that aspect It is completely wrong to assume that the only question of importance is the level of aggregate population growth. Even if the population level were completely stationary, internal population movement would have a marked impact on the face of the country. To take one example, there is no simple relationship between population growth and the environment. It might be thought that a stationary population level would preserve the environment and maintain living standards. It is possible for population movement to be just as great a threat to the environment and living quality as a population which increases rapidly. We are seeing an example of that in the very heavy pressures which population movement is placing on Queensland- pressures which the State Government is ill-prepared to meet. For instance, if one wants an example of population growth one only has to look at what happened in the city of Gladstone in the 1960s. No city in Australia had an infrastructure so ill-prepared to meet the problems of population growth as Gladstone in Queensland had. Many other towns could be cited. Another example is the Gold Coast. The Gold Coast has private affluence and public squallor. At present 80 per cent of residences on the Gold Coast are unsewered, but the population growth in that area is enormous. The position of the wealthy who live in the apartment towers is all right, but many people have to live with bad services. 
It is also a fact that population movement out of Sydney and Melbourne can bring benefits to the environment- for example, by reduction of the pressure on the inner city freeways and also by the reduction of the enormous pressure on the sewerage services of those cities. On the other hand it is argued by many that if population increases the extra income could be used to protect and restore the environment. Government action and legislation could be used to reduce the risks of environmental damage. In total these might be more effective as a protective measure than trying to limit total population growth. There needs to be more detailed study of these aspects. Not in the last 25 years has there been any in depth study of them. The whole question of population movement is one of the most vital facing this country. The Labor Government foresaw these problems and tried to plan for them. In particular that is why we tried to develop our growth centre programs. That is why we tried to move the people away from Sydney and Melbourne. That is why we tried to move those people from the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne into sub-metropolitan centres and other regional centres to make our society a much more rational society to live in. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer him to reports that it is felt in financial circles that the Government has not been able to keep its bonds and treasury notes competitive with the private sector bills and Certificates of Deposits. Will the Government raise its interest rates on government paper to remove the estimated $3 billion of short term private paper dependent on inadequate liquidity backing, or does the Government foresee some other method of reducing the volume of private paper money in circulation? 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I refer the Prime Minister to reports that the Metal Trades Industry Association and the trade unions associated with the metal trades have called on the Government to stop tariff reviews until the economy has recovered. Will the Government agree to support their proposed 2-year moratorium on tariff changes, thereby protecting the jobs of a quarter of a million Australians and assisting a strategic sector of our economy consisting of over 4000 industries already established? 
-On behalf of the Opposition I support the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and you,  Mr Speaker,  in wishing  Mr Frank  Atkinson well. He gave distinguished service to this House and to the State.  Mr Atkinson  directed the Government's printing services during a period of considerable expansion. In particular, he played a notable role in servicing the increased access to government documents given by the Whitlam Labor Government. He also took part in the transformation of national printing and publishing resources flowing from new technology. Communication of government activities through a wide variety of publications is a demanding and complex art. The Australian Government, since 1972, has been fortunate in having  Mr Atkinson  to guide its printing services through a difficult period of change. I give him our best wishes for his future. 
My question is directed to the Deputy Prime Minister. Has he seen reports that the Queensland Ministers for Mines has granted a prospecting authority over the Oakey Creek region to Houston Oil and Minerals of Australia without calling for public tenders? Does he agree that some Australian companies, including Colonial Sugar Refining Co. and Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd were interested in this region and were disadvantaged by the Queensland Government 's action? I further ask - 
-The only thing that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  has done in a public debate in this Parliament has been to re-introduce on the Notice Paper the uranium debate. That has been put back on the Notice Paper only because of this matter of public importance submitted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The Minister protests so much but we know that he has very l ittle voice in Cabinet. In fact, he is not in Cabinet; he is outside Cabinet. No Cabinet Minister is to speak in this debate. We know that environmental matters have a very low priority under this Government. We know what is paramount, what is supreme. Mining is supreme. We only have to look at the last Budget. We know that the attitude of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is supreme. But he refuses to come into this debate. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development is a lightweight, and we all know that little notice is taken of his Department. 
There can be no doubt that the Government has now dropped its mask of pretence about uranium mining. In this House last Thursday morning, the  Deputy  Prime Minister gave us the standard Government line on uranium miningthat the Government was waiting for the final Fox report. A few hours later the  Deputy  Prime Minister bluntly indicated to the National Press Club that uranium mining would go ahead. This was the clear message he spelled out. Somewhere between Parliament House and the National Press Club the  Deputy  Prime Minister decided that Government policy should be stated. He decided to come clean. 
At last we can argue the issues and not be put off by the Government's pretence about the Fox report. The Government has already made the decision to allow uranium mining. Let this House and the Australian people be clear about that. The Government has always had an understanding with the uranium lobby that mining would go ahead. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has now admitted it. The possible impact of the Fox report had already been weakened by the way in which the first report was interpreted. The media focused on the first 2 items listed in the findings and recommendations. These 2 findings were considered in isolation by the media and this gave a completely false impression of the overall report. The only daily newspaper that gave a fair report of the findings and recommendations was the Melbourne  Age. 
All other national dailies confused the recommendations and findings. The recommendations were the most significant part but they have been ignored almost completely. The Government has deliberately fostered this false impression. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development issued a Press statement which deliberately encouraged this interpretation. He rejected a statement prepared by his Department which put the findings and recommendations in a proper perspective. 
There are three important points to be made about the recommendations. First, if they were fully implemented, uranium mining in Australia would be so difficult as to be impossible. I stress that. It would be difficult or near impossible to carry out uranium mining. For example, recommendation 4 says that exports should be regulated according to chapter 16. Yet if these recommendations were adopted so many obstacles would be imposed on mining that it would be uneconomic. Recommendation 6 gives the Government power to interrupt or halt supplies. What mining company would invest $200m or more if this were possible? 
Secondly, the Government has made no attempt whatever to implement any of the recommendations. What about recommendation 9, which calls for a Uranium Advisory Council to include adequate representation of the people? This council has never been discussed or even referred to by the Government. It is not possible that the Fraser Government would admit the influence of grass roots opinion in this way. The final recommendation called for a public debate on the issues. What has the Government done to stimulate a public debate apart from 2 hours of parliamentary debate and a completely inadequate printing and distribution of the Fox report? The first report has been out of stock in the parliamentary Bills and Papers Office for several months. This is not a public debate in the terms suggested by the Ranger inquiry. 
The Government has made a complete mockery of the Fox recommendations while pushing the 2 findings, which fortunately for its purposes were listed first in the 16 findings and recommendations. These were only 2 findings out of 16 findings and recommendations. 
The third point to be made is that the Fox report sets the Government an impossible task. Recommendation 8 says that no sales of uranium should take place to any country not party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. How can the 
Government guarantee that? The NonProliferation Treaty does not prevent the sale of uranium to those who have not signed the Treaty. Australia could easily sell uranium to West Germany or France, which could sell it to Brazil or Iran, or any other country where there is an unstable government. 
For all of these reasons, the Government wants to push the first report out of sight. The Fraser Government wants to honour its commitments to the uranium lobby before the second report comes out. It wants to honour its preelection commitment to the mining lobby and to overseas interests. If honourable members opposite want evidence I will give them evidence if they give me an extension of time. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has made it blatantly clear. There are 3 reasons why we are strongly opposed to opening up Australia's uranium reserves to foreign mining interests. The first is the damage to the economy that would be caused by unrestricted uranium mining and uranium export. Apart from the other distortions in the  Deputy  Prime Minister's speech to the Press Club he grossly overstated the possible economic benefits. Uranium mining would have little or no impact in creating new jobs. Once the initial construction phase is over, it would provide very few new jobs. Uranium mining is immensely capital intensive and employs very few people. The labour content is decreasing all the time. Most of the equipment used would be imported, with no benefit for Australian industry and the Australian work force. The development stage of uranium mining would require immense capital investment and this would drain capital investment away from manufacturing industry where much of the work force is engaged. 
Once uranium reaches the export stage, the harmful impact on other sections of the Australian economy continues. Let there be no doubt. The mining lobby predicts that uranium exports will exceed exports of both iron ore and coal by the early 1980s. The uranium mineowners would earn high export income, and this would bring pressures from our trading partners for Australia to raise imports to maintain our trade balance. Imports of manufactured goods further hurt our manufacturing industries, which face enough difficulties already. The trade imbalance puts upward pressure on the exchange rate, and this raises the price of our rural and manufacturing exports on world markets. This is the economic reality behind the string of platitudes mouthed by the Deputy Prime Minister. 
The environmental arguments are just as compelling. One is the devastation of Kakadu National Park which the Ranger project would bring. Kakadu is one of the S areas of Australia which have been accepted as part of the world heritage to be preserved at all costs. Even more important is the genetic effect of pollution from nuclear development. The evidence now available on the hazards of radioactive material on the human genetic structure is quite chilling. Just as frightening is the potential for loss of life and random damage to future generations from nuclear accidents. We cannot discount these arguments in the simplistic terms adopted by the Government. Nuclear accidents are bound to happen, just as they happen in any area of technology. 
The third reason for rejecting the case for uranium mining at this stage is the stimulus it would give to the spread of nuclear weapons. The spread of the nuclear industry fed by putting more uranium supplies onto the world market would greatly increase the hazards of nuclear war. More countries would have access to plutonium and to the technology needed to make nuclear bombs. Delivery systems for nuclear weapons are becoming simpler and cheaper to produce. More countries are finding nuclear weapons and their delivery system within their means. We cannot reject the threat of nuclear terrorism. For all these reasons we reject uranium mining and the stimulus it would bring to nuclear industry, the spread of nuclear technology and the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Finally, let me state the central element of the decision of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party on this issue. It is: 
That it be made clear that the next Labor Government will not be bound to honour any future contracts entered into by the previous Government. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has the Government decided to transfer a number of specific purpose payments for capital works now funded by the Commonwealth into the Loan Council programs of the States? In particular, has it decided to transfer the national sewerage program? In the case of such transfers, what will the Government do to compensate the States for the higher interest rates which will ensue? 
I want to confine my comments to the town planning aspects of the law courts. I think it should be stated at the outset that it was a step in the right direction when the State and Federal courts rationalised their development by housing their courts in the one building. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  pointed out that there is still a certain amount of sectarianism, if I may use that word, amongst the bureaucracy of both the State and Federal courts. I think that it is now a matter for the Federal and State AttorneysGeneral to break down that sectarianism. I am not trying to isolate the problem to this case. In the portfolio which I administered I did everything that I could- it was extremely difficult- to break down the distrust which seemed to occur between Federal and State authorities. Unless we can get our public servants, judges or whoever the authorities may be working together, in the long term they will be working against the interests of the people. 
I think that the decision to combine the Federal and State courts was a rational decision. It was under a conservative Government that agreement was reached on this back in 1959, my first year in this Parliament. Construction commenced in 1 970. It has been underway for a long time. What disturbs me greatly is that this building, which is 360 feet above street level, with a total of 24 floors- 22 floors above street levelwith a floor area space of 54 000 square feet, can be located in metropolitan Sydney in an area in which there is very little open space. The buildings in this part of Sydney are very densely concentrated. Open space is needed for the ordinary residents and citizens of that city particularly in the lunch hour. This building is located at the northern end of Hyde Park. As I said, it is 360 feet high and I suppose that it is within 100 feet or so of Hyde Park. In winter time office workers and departmental employees seeking a break from the pressure of work go out into these open space areas, particularly at the northern end of Hyde Park, to enjoy the warmth and sunshine. Because the sun is low on the northern horizon in winter time, this building will throw a shadow over the northern end of the Park towards the Archibald Fountain area. 
The honourable member asks where it should be. All I am trying to say is that if an area of natural beauty has been created, whether by foresight or accident, in the form of a very rare open space area in the centre of the city, proper town planning methods should be used to protect the interests of the people who will use that open space area. Incorrect and foolish planning has taken place. The Commonwealth has made grave errors by incorrect town planning. 
I am speaking in this Parliament tonight in the hope that the mistakes that the town planners have made in regard to this building will not be duplicated in other planning in the future. Whenever one looks at Australian Government buildings in the cities, whether they be in Sydney, Melbourne or any of our major capitals, we see monstrosities. They are condemned for their ugliness. Their architecture is appalling. There is no gentleness about them. There is no intelligent or sympathetic planning. 
Turning away from the law court building, the Commonwealth building in Chifley Square in Sydney is a building of tiles and glass and there are no shopping or social amenities in it. The thousands of people who work in that building have to walk a nearly half a mile if they want to do some shopping. The situation is even worse in Spring Street, Melbourne. All this is due to the stupidity of past planning. At least under the planning of the Whitlam Labor Government the government centre that was being developed at Parramatta would have had available a quarter of a million square feet to provide shopping facilities and other social amenities for employees in that building. We intended to create theatres and other facilities to improve the work and city environment. I hope that the planners and architects who are now in the Department of Construction will take their heads out of the sand. If they cannot apply correct thinking and planning within the Department, at least they should seek out private consultants so that we can get some decent buildings and decent planning. The Australian Government has a responsibility not to scar the city landscape. For far too long Australian Government buildings have scarred the hearts of our cities. They have not enhanced the culture in and the beauty of our cities. 
It is regrettable that this building was permitted to be built 360 feet above street level because this will starve the northern end of Hyde Park of winter sunshine at lunch time when people mostly want to use the area. This will deter people from using the park. Having said that, I hope that the constructive criticism I have levelled at the Attorney-General- might I say that I am not only talking to the Attorney-General; I am talking to the Government as a whole- will be accepted in such a way that something may be learnt from it. 
The Minister for Transport has all the answers. We know he is a country hick and he thinks like one. 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise on a point of order. Again I have to draw your attention to the  Deputy  Prime Minister using question time for long replies containing information which he could give in statements after question time. Long replies are also a direct insult to you as the  Speaker  because you have warned the Ministers time and time again to make their replies short. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. By way of preface I refer to the previous decisions taken by the Fraser Government that will severely restrict growth in revenues for 1977-78, such as the indexation of personal taxes, stock valuation adjustments and investment allowances, and the Government's desire to reduce the deficit in 1977-78 to a level around $ 1,500m. Can the Treasurer explain how a zero real growth rate can be achieved, or is it more likely that there will be a strong decline in real terms in the Budget sector of capital outlays in 1977-78? 
-The motivation behind the resumption of the debate on the Fox report is highly dubious. There is no doubt that it is a panic response by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  to the Opposition's matter of public importance last Tuesday. Apart from the urgency debate, this Parliament has given a bare 2 hours to consideration and discussion of the Fox report. Now it has decided to throw out the sop of another couple of hours' debate because it has been politically embarrassed. The Government is well aware that it has not honoured the recommendation of the Fox report that the fullest possible public debate be held before a decision is made on uranium mining. The response of the Minister in Tuesday's debate on the matter of public importance to criticism of the Government's total apathy to a uranium debate was pathetic. It boiled down to the fact that he was prepared to give a free copy of the Fox report to anyone who wrote to him and asked for it. 
The second rung of his argument was that copies of the Fox report were available to all honourable members in the Bills and Papers Office of this Parliament. We know that after the debate on Tuesday the Minister sneaked 9 copies of the report into the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives which had run out of supplies several months ago. Even this aspect of the Minister's defence was wrong. While he was talking in the House members of my staff checked the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and found that there were no copies. Checks by the office of the Leader of the Opposition also showed that no copies were available in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives. The Minister cannot even get his facts straight on such a piddling part of this vitally important debate. It is common knowledge also that the Minister refused to be briefed on uranium mining by his own Department.  His  speech on Tuesday was prepared by the office of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  who was not game to join the debate in the House. In fact the  Deputy  Prime Minister has made no statement on this question of uranium in this House. He has hidden behind a smokescreen during question time. 
The Deputy Prime Minister knew that he had blundered by going off half cocked at the National Press Club last week. 
-I object to the Minister taking up my precious 1 5 minutes. He knows that my time is limited. I ask him not to be frivolous. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer him to the Prime Minister's statement that the Government would not increase its own charges during the period of the pause. I also draw his attention to the earlier reply which the Prime Minister gave today to the 
Leader of the Opposition. Does this mean that Government interest rates will be frozen? If so, has the Government forgone a major arm of monetary policy at a crucial time in the financial year? If not, is it intended to raise coupon rates for the May loan and will this reduce even further the narrow scope of the price freeze? 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister, having noted his answer to the honourable member for Prospect that there will be no exemptions to the price freeze. Was the Minister for Primary Industry expressing Government policy when he said that it is just not possible to have price restraint on perishables such as fish and vegetables? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, by reminding him that yesterday he said that interest rates should remain static. I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that the latest quarterly review of the Bank of New South Wales puts Australia's Budget deficit at $4.8 billion for the first 7 months of this financial year- 19 per cent higher than for the corresponding period of the last financial year. Further, if because of static interest rates the May loan fails, as the February loan failed, and the Government is unable to finance the deficit from the non-bank public, what other measures of financing the deficit will the Government use? 
-The important aspect of this question is the phrase 'new federalism '. If ever there was a phoney government it is this Fraser Government. First of all, it accuses the Labor Government of being a centralist government yet it warned the 6 Premiers only last week that if they did not co-operate with the Federal Government, the Federal Government would act on its own. Only one out of the 6 Premiers in fact agreed with the proposal although they said they would not use the tax system. So much for centralism. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  also said that we in the former Labor Government knew something about printing money in order to finance a budget deficit. Clearly, if he understood the situation, the level of the deficit at present for the first 7 months of this year is running at a record $4.8 billion. That is not my estimate; that is in the quarterly review of the Bank of New South Wales. The rate is 19 per cent higher than it was last year. Even with this so called wage-price freeze, the situation is that if the Government freezes interest rates, it will have to give some indication of how it will finance that deficit. The February loan failed because it was not attractive, the same situation will occur with regard to the May loan. No government in history has ever changed resources as fast as this Government has done in its first year in office. 
It has taken from the wage packet and it has diverted, not only from the wage packet but also from public services, to the private sector and that private sector is big business. This Government stands condemned not only for its centralist policy of squeezing the small States and the State governments but also for squeezing the people of Australia. The main casualty at last week's Premiers Conference was the adoption of a fair and sensible federalism policy by the Australian Government. The people of Australia will be the ones who will pay for that situation. The point of this Conference was to discuss the progress of the so-called new federalism. According to the Government's time scale, phase one was ending and it was moving into phase two. In effect phase two, which will apply for the first time in Australia for 35 years, is a double taxation system. The Government has used other terms, such as surcharge, to describe this tax but in blunt English it is a double tax system. It does not matter how much the Treasurer wriggles, that is what it is. It is a double tax on the people of 
Australia. There will be a Federal income tax and there will be a State income tax. 
The Premiers Conference was supposed to reach agreement on the new State income taxes and to look at relativity problems of existing payments to the States. In fact, the meeting reached a complete stalemate on the tax issue and little progress was made on other items. The whole thrust of the meeting was directed to the futile bid to lay down a wage and price freeze. I do not want to go into the wage and price freeze at this time but it is important to note how it overwhelmed the vital issues of federalism which the Conference was supposed to resolve. That is the situation. It will be much later in the Budget cycle before discussions on these issues are resumed. This puts the Federal Government into a much stronger position. It will be much more difficult for the States to press their arguments in a new Budget context. There can be no doubt that it will be a much tougher Budget with very substantial cuts in specific purpose payments to the States and also in the funds for public works programs. This will make it much tougher for the States when they start framing their own budgets. Federal pressure is tightening on them all the time to raise their own income tax. That is the real pressure of this centralist government. All the Premiers have denied any intention to raise State taxes. 
At last week's Conference 5 of the Premiers said that they would not impose State taxes and they would not introduce legislation for the socalled surcharge. The Premier of Western Australia said that he would accept the legislation but would not use it. This seems a peculiar position to adopt and one which must be treated with suspicion. Now the Fraser Government is convinced that it has the legal power to introduce legislation without State agreement. Just imagine if former Prime Minister Whitlam and his Ministers in the Labor Government had said to the States: 'We want to introduce such legislation'. The States would say: 'That monster, socialist centralist government in Canberra is full of villains'. They do not mention this Government or the arrogance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer, the tail that follows behind the great man. We are now told that a Bill will be introduced before the Parliament rises in June. What about the co-operation that is needed between the States? The Government is laying down the law without that cooperative spirit. Once this happens the States will lose any independence they might have in regard to a separate income tax. I do not dispute the sincerity of the State Premiers in saying now that they will not raise extra taxes but in the months ahead they will be squeezed to an intolerable degree. The crunch will come either with cutbacks on public goods and services, which will mean a lower living standard for the average people, or with a search for new revenue sources. Again, the people will really suffer. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I want to mention that one of the great public services that the former Labor Government tried to carry out will suffer greatly under this scheme. I refer to the national sewerage backlog. The Labor Government made a commitment that we would work in co-operation with the States and local government authorities and semi-government authorities to reduce the sewerage backlog which existed in this country. In fact, one in six families in Sydney and Melbourne had unsewered homes. Fifty per cent of the people living in Perth were in the same position. The debt burden was such that in Perth 50c was being paid out of every dollar they collected in rates. In Sydney 52c was being paid in the dollar. In Newcastle it was 52c in the dollar but in Melbourne, the city where Premier Hamer is supposed to govern, it was 58c out of every dollar which was collected. 
What would have been the cost of overcoming this sewerage backlog? The magnitude of the cost of this scheme is such that at June 1974 prices it would have cost $3.8 billion. The commitment of the national Government would have been $ 1.5 billion. In fact in the 3 years of Labor Government $260m was spent. In 1976-77 the expenditure on this program was dropped to $50m. This was cut back sharply from the forward estimate of expenditure of $ 135m. In total the Commonwealth had given $3 10m out of the estimated commitments of $1.5 billion. The question is how the overcoming of the sewerage backlog is to be financed. We decided that 30 per cent of the money would be provided by grant and the other 70 per cent would be loaned at the long term bond rate. Under this new scheme by which the States will have to meet the whole financial commitment the cost of that money will be much higher. Therefore the burden will be again thrown back on the ordinary people, the ratepayers, the people who own homes. That is the situation that will occur. Not only will the Government create double taxation under this so called new federalism scheme but it will also force local government and semi-government authorities and the State authorities to put up council rates and State government charges. The burden will be thrown onto the ordinary people. Only a national government has the financial resources to carry out such works. A national government needs to get involved in all walks of life and to co-operate with the States and local government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The time of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has expired. 
-We in the Opposition support in principle the amalgamation of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. In terms of public administration, it is a logical and sensible step. The separation of roads from other modes of transport is an artificial one. All modes of transport are interconnected, and transport in turn is interconnected with the broad range of urban and regional development policies. It makes sense to unite the 2 bodies and coordinate their work. There are 2 aspects of this measure which we oppose. Firstly, we oppose the decision to bring the amalgamated Bureau into the Department of Transport structure. Secondly, I stress that the new Bureau should not be retained within the Transport ministry. As I have said, transport is a part of the wider urban and regional development context. The appropriate place to locate the new Bureau, to my mind, would be within the responsibility of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Accordingly, I would urge the Government to look again at the administrative arrangements and allocate the Bureau to the department which has the broader responsibility of urban and regional development. 
I do not think that the Government gains anything by dissolving the Bureau of Roads. In some circumstances statutory corporations outlive their usefulness and should be disbanded. I can speak from experience of the Cities Commission, which is a recent example. This was created by the McMahon Government as the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. The Australian Labor Party kept it along with its new Department of Urban and Regional Development when we became the Government at the end of 1972. Undoubtedly the Cities Commission was a valuable body during the first 1 8 months of the Labor Government. We had to start the new Department of Urban and Regional Development completely from scratch. Until the Department built up its strength, the established authority undertook much of the work. The Labor Government could not have got its growth centres going so quickly without the help of that authority. Certainly AlburyWodonga would not have been so advanced as it is now had it not been for the Cities Commission. As DURD built up its strength and its functions, it became obvious that there was a duplication of functions with the Cities Commission. The 2 bodies were getting in each other's way in a number of areas, particularly in their relationship with the States. For this reason we wound up the Cities Commission and absorbed it within the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a bureau. This process was interrupted with the dismissal of the Labor Government. 
As I read the present organisational structure of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Bureau has been absorbed totally into the Department and there is no trace of its old independence. There is a real risk that a similar fate awaits the new Bureau of Transport Economics- Bureau of Roads after the amalgamation. As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has said, the existing Bureau of Transport Economics has a semi-independent status. This arrangement has worked reasonably well since the Bureau was formed in 1971. It has been loosely attached to the Department of Transport and seemingly its independence has been respected. I suggest that the pressure will be much greater on the amalgamated Bureau. 
The functions of the old Bureau of Transport Economics were very limited. It was primarily a research body. In terms of public spending, it had very little impact. This will not be the case when it is joined with the Bureau of Roads, which is perhaps the most powerful of the Commonwealth statutory authorities. The Bureau of Roads is deeply involved in the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement. Its recommendations largely determine the amount of funds to be spent on roads and where those funds are to be applied. It recommends on what sort of roads are to be funded and how much of the total is to be spent in each category. The Bureau of Roads has a close relationship with State governments and local government. It is a body that is extremely respected within the State sphere and within local government. It is an immensely important co-ordinating vehicle through the complicated maze of Australian federalism. This explains the very strong reaction by the shires and councils to the abolition of the Bureau of Roads as a statutory authority. 
Because of the influence of the Bureau, it is inevitable that it will be subjected to the pressures of rivalry and empire building within the bureaucracy. I accept the Minister's pledge that he intends to preserve the independence of the new Bureau of Transport Economics once it is attached to his Department. But with the roads function added to the old Bureau of Transport Economics, there is no doubt that it will become a source of conflict. It will be drawn into interdepartmental fights. Other sections of the bureaucracy will be out to pay off old scores. Above all, because it will be recommending spending on a vast capital works program, the biggest spending item in the transport budget- I stress that it has by far the biggest allocation of the transport budget- attempts will be made to take over its functions. It will be only a matter of time before the Bureau is shorn of its independence and integrity. The Department will absorb it, because that is the way the bureaucratic process works. The functions of the Bureau will be spread through the Department and its influence and effectiveness will disappear. The Minister is being very naive if he thinks otherwise. It is surprising that the Minister, who has so much experience, should know so little about how the system really works. The new arrangements may look neater on paper, but in the long term they will not work in practice. 
I am not pushing the case for statutory authorities, but they have an important role in some areas. Normally I have very strong reservations about statutory authorities, but I believe that this particular authority should be defended and retained. As I said earlier, it has a relationship with shire councils, State governments and State government departments which has been built up over a very long period of time, and a great deal of respect exists for its nonpartisan approach and for its expertise. The Bureau has been particularly helpful in assisting those local councils which do not have the skilled engineers necessary to carry out road works. Undoubtedly, in the past there have been cases where statutory corporations have been created and were found to be unnecessary, and I cite the Cities Commission as an example. Other statutory authorities within the Federal bureaucracy could, if the Ministers in charge wanted to do so, easily be amalgamated within those ministries and a great deal of administrative cost to the Australian people could be saved. But this Bureau is not one of those statutory authorities which should be amalgamated into a department. There are important areas of public policy and public spending where a high degree of independence is needed, and the Bureau of Roads is a prime example of that. 
Turning to the second argument, I speak again from experience. When the Ministry of Urban and Regional Development was being created in the first half of 1973 I argued strongly that the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics should be place within that ministry. It was and still is my attitude that the transport investment is crucial to the investment in urban and regional development. Housing, job opportunities, and the whole range of urban services and amenities are all related to the choice of transport modes and the amount of transport investment. Transport is vitally important to the development of new growth centres, which can be badly disrupted and even ruined if transport modes and transport investment are not properly planned. One has to look only at the existing cities to see the importance of both the rail and road transport systems. It is important to bring about a balanced load in the transport system because no city can achieve any real efficiency if it does not get the best use possible out of its transport system. Because of the  laissez faire  attitude which existed for around 20 years between 1950 and 1972, there was an over-centralisation in the central business districts of most capital cities, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne. It has been found that both the political and economic power lies inside one square mile of the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. The power radiates from within these central business districts. The city of Sydney stretches for some 35 miles west, 35 miles south-west, 20 miles north and 20 miles south, and the administrative power radiates from within the central business district. 
It does not matter what transport system exists or what is the investment involved, there can be no real efficiency in the transport system if it is geared to the peak load system. Under that system the transport vehicles, whether they be trams, buses and trains in Melbourne or simply buses and trains in Sydney, go out empty in the morning and bring the workers into the central business districts, where most of the job opportunities exist. It is necessary to build up other centres, as the Labor Government was doing in Sydney in co-operation with the State Government. We were able to agree with that conservative Government to build up modes at places like Parramatta, Penrith, Campbelltown and Liverpool. In seeking to build up those places we were seeking to build up business centres and to get people moving both ways in the transport system. I should say that similar things were being done in Melbourne. The so-called centralist Whitlam Government, and I say this with some pride, worked in co-operation with the State governments. We sought their co-operation. We believed that the only way to solve the problems of transport in a city was to work in a spirit of cooperation involving all levels of government. 
The Australian Government's Department of Urban and Regional Development worked with the Hamer Government's planning department to get agreement on the development of major new sub-metropolitan centres in metropolitan Melbourne. We were able to reach agreement on places like Watsonia-Epping, Dandenong, Sunshine and Broadmeadows becoming major centres. We reached agreement to build up those centres, to transfer Commonwealth public servants into the areas, to create job opportunities there, and to integrate them into the overall transport system so that we could get transport moving, not just one way in the morning and the other way at night but in a way which would achieve a more balanced load on the transport system. Therefore I believe that it is important that the present counterpart of the old Department of Urban and Regional Development- the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development- should be given greater muscle in this administration and that the Bureau of Roads should be made a statutory authority under the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Community Development. That Department has an overall environmental approach rather than just the narrow sectional interest of public transport. It is for this reason that I argue that the Bureau should come under that Department. 
In the end, of course, it will not be my responsibility and it will not be the responsibility of my colleague the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  In the end it will be the responsibility of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is responsible for administrative arrangements, to determine what will happen. In the Labor Administration there was a very close working relationship between the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who was the Minister for Transport, and myself and we had joint access to both these Bureaus. As I said earlier, I argued very strongly that the Bureau should have come directly under the Ministry of Urban and Regional Development, with guaranteed access to the statutory authority for the Minister for Transport. 
I will give honourable members one example of the need to restructure a major city. The example to which I refer is the Macarthur growth centre on the south-western sector of Sydney. As Minister for Urban and Regional Development I made a strong effort to get the New South Wales Government to complete the East HillsGlenfield railway line before the major work on the growth centre was undertaken. This rail link would have brought Macarthur within Sydney's urban rail system in a practical and effective way. It would have expanded the opportunities for workers to travel by rail to the new jobs in the industrial areas of the growth centre. Every other aspect of the development of the growth centre was dependent on the simple choice of transport mode. Even with the assurance of Federal funding, the New South Wales conservative Government, as it then was, under  Sir Robert  Askin, did not realise the urgency of this work. Now we are seeing Macarthur emerge as a rapidly developing growth centre- a fast growing area of metropolitan Sydney. It is by far the fastest growing area. Nowhere in Sydney is an area developing faster than the Macarthur region. 
In many ways, Macarthur has been a successful venture. But the basic problems of rail transport remain. Delays in providing the rail link have multiplied the cost. The whole burden has been thrown on to road transport. This means that it will not be long before Macarthur is feeling the same pressures from over-reliance on road transport as the rest of metropolitan Sydney. The case of Macarthur shows why it is wrong to isolate transport from urban and regional development. It is no solution to rely on the traditional process of co-ordination through interdepartmental committees or other devices within the bureaucracy. These have never given the sort of interconnected planning which is needed for the proper development of our cities and particularly our new developing areas. Experience in government has convinced me that it is completely wrong to separate transport planning from urban and regional planning. The proper solution is to merge the 2 bureaus into a single statutory authority and, in my view, to place that under the administration of the Ministry and the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. I do not think it will happen under this Government. Unlike an earlier  speaker  in the debate, the Minister for Transport is a strong man. He is a very arrogant man. He has a very arrogant approach. There is no argument about that. He is proud of that arrogance. In fact, that is why the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, so far as this Government is concerned, has a very low priority. I am quite sure that the objectives to which I have referred will not be brought about under this Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I have been trying to make a speech on this wage-price freeze for several days now. Because the Government has not given us an opportunity to speak on it, I intend to take this 5 minutes to make part of my contribution. There are many elements about this call for a wage-price freeze that concern me. The first is the way in which it was brought about. It was about as spontaneous a happening as the coup of 1 1 November 1975. The full story has yet to be told but it is clear that there was a degree of collusion between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Victorian Premier and the highest ranks of the Liberal Party and the bureaucracy. It has all the hallmarks of a carefully sprung trap. 
Why should a highly conservative government suddenly unleash a policy proposal that has failed whenever it has been tried in the United States, the United Kingdom and Europe? Even the Prime Minister's mentor, Milton Friedman, has condemned this proposal. The whole thing is fishy; in fact it smells in itself. It has nothing to do with the Government's economic policy. On the other hand, it has everything to do with the politics of this Government. It ties in neatly with the Government's plans to coerce the trade union movement through the Industrial Relations Bureau, through the restricted trade practices legislation and through the use of the corporations power in the Constitution. A careful examination of the motivations behind the scheme can lead only to this conclusion. Certainly there is no economic logic in this proposal. 
The Government has severely eroded the system of wage indexation which brought to the economy a substantial slowing down of the underlying rate of inflation and a very high degree of industrial peace. It has had considerable success in forcing on the Labor movement a series of measures whose net effect has been to slash real wages. An ounce of thought would have driven home to the Government the basic truth that under full wage indexation, a successful 3-month price freeze would automatically mean a 3-month wage freeze in the following 3 months. This is the surest way of applying a wage-price freeze- to revert to full indexation and to clamp down on prices for 3 months. In my view, this should have been the objective of the Government. 
One of the most unsavoury implications of the proposal is its long term impact on wage fixing. The essence of the Government's tactic is to establish itself as the nation's supreme wage fixing authority. We know that this is a situation the Government has sought for some time. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has spoken quite openly about it at meetings of employers and farm groups. It is also the rationale behind the confident view of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  that the corporations power can be used to restrain wage rises. 
It is a matter of grave concern that the Government should seek in this way to supplant the arbitration system as the determining authority for wages in Australia. We all know that the system has its faults. It also has a measure of impartiality. This quality would be destroyed completely if supreme authority for wage fixing were placed in the hands of a partisan government of whatever political colour. There is no doubt that the long term objective of this Government and the conservative forces which back it, is to get wage fixing back to the market place. It wants market forces to set wages and it wants a greatly weakened trade union movement to operate in this free market. This would destroy the whole structure of industrial protection which has been built up by more than 100 years of painful struggle. This ploy by the Government has very grave consequences for the Labor movement and I ask its members to give this deep consideration. 
There is a wealth of other evidence that this Government has not thought through the impact of this proposal. In particular, it has not even considered that effect of the carrying out of a responsible monetary policy. During this week the Prime Minister said that interest rates would be frozen. At question time yesterday he again endorsed this proposal. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Did the Prime Minister, just before the Premiers Conference last week, receive from Treasury and other official sources advice to the effect that inflation and unemployment would get worse? Was that one of the reasons for embracing the smokescreen proposal of a wages and prices freeze? Finally, will the Prime Minister tell the House what measures the Government intends to take to reduce unemployment and inflation? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer the Treasurer to the manipulation by Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia Limited of its interest in Queensland Alumina Limited. Is the Treasurer aware that CRA sells its share of Queensland Alumina's output at a loss, much of it to its United Kingdom parent company, the Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation, while continuing to make a profit through Queensland Alumina's investment allowance? Further, I ask the Treasurer whether the Federal Government will take action to require Australian companies to charge their customers prices more in accord with world parity prices. 
-Yes, I second it. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the Deputy Leader of the Opposition be not further heard. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Will the cost of the Government's 40 per cent investment allowance, fixed at $200m in the Budget of 1975-76, be of the order of $ 100m for this financial year? Further, have the estimates of the costs of the allowance projected for 1977-78 been reduced by the Prime Minister from an initial figure of $600m to $450m? Finally, I ask whether this evidence of below expectation investment levels reveals that this country's business community has formed an accurate assessment of this Government's incompetent economic management? 
I second the proposition put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam). 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Reid be not further heard. 

<graphic href="105131197704271_30_2_3_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197704271_30_2_2_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197704271_30_2_4_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. The Bill does raise some important questions about the future of the Government's welfare and housing programs. I want to draw attention to them quickly. This program, which provides dwelling units to single aged and single Service pensioners was introduced by the coalition Government in 1 969. A total of $25 m was appropriated for a 5-year period on the basis of $5m a year. The Labor Government made some minor changes to the program but continued it for another 3 years. It increased the annual amount to $ 10m a year in 1974. Now this Government wants to extend the Labor scheme for another year, again with some minor changes. The second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  made clear that this is an interim measure. The Government wants to hold the line until a review of the future of this scheme is undertaken. In a broader context, the Government is trying to fit the scheme into a much wider ranging program. 
Two committees of inquiry have made recommendations on possible placement of this scheme. The Bailey report recommended that it be included in a comprehensive welfare housing scheme. The Holmes report saw this as only one option. In general terms the Holmes report favoured the block grant approach to the care for the aged and the infirm. In this way housing would be linked with a proper domiciliary care service, and housing for the aged and the infirm would be located in an area where proper care and services are available. The main criticism which has been levelled at the dwelling for pensioner scheme has been that it provides housing in areas where there has been a lack of proper support facilities. This was particularly the case between 1969 and 1972. To my mind this is a valid criticism. It is one which the approach of the Holmes report tries to remove. The third approach is to absorb the scheme into the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. Until it is known exactly what the Government intends with regard to the new agreement it is not possible to offer an informed opinion on this option. 
The new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement legislation will not be introduced until next year. It will be late in the year before negotiations with the States are completed. I might say that the present negotiations, if reports getting back to me are accurate, are not going too smoothly. It remains to be proved that bringing the scheme into the new Housing Agreement is the best solution. It certainly will dress up the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement and make it appear more attractive by providing a straightout grant element. I stress this point that I believe that irrespective of whether it remains under the present scheme or whether it is absorbed into the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, it should be clearly identified. There should be direct grants. This type of housing should not be a further burden on State instrumentalities. The Government might use this program to reduce the criticism which very substantial changes to the long accepted welfare housing policies will bring. If this were done it would be purely on a political basis and for political reasons only. 
It may well be that the recommendations in the Bailey and Holmes reports are sounder in welfare terms than what the bureaucracy is proposing and the Minister should not cut off these options. I think that greater consideration should be given to both the Holmes report and the Bailey report. It might not be in the best interests of the scheme to include this in the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. I hope the Minister and his officers give a great deal of thought to that suggestion. The Bill removes the requirement which was contained in the previous legislation that the Federal Minister should approve each project. This may be consistent with the Government's so-called new federalism but, again, I do not think it understands why the Labor Government included the need for the Minister to have a say in the legislation. It is contrary to proper planning and co-ordination of the programs on the basis of need. As I said earlier, before the Minister entered the chamber, the Labor Government drew from experience and found that a great deal of this housing was not located near where the services for the aged and the infirm are needed. One must recognise that many of these people may move into the single units when they are in their sixties but within a decade they need a great deal of medical care and medical services. Therefore, these units should be located near where these services are available. 
The risk is that giving the States full control may- I use the word 'may' deliberately- mean that pensioner housing will still be sited where there are no domicilary support services. I want to stress that point. The Labor Government inserted this provision to try to avoid these problems. With regard to this aspect there is no record of a great deal of centralism occurring under the Labor Government. In fact, there was under a Labor Government a co-operative spirit and I want to stress this point that the Opposition wants to see, as much as possible, in all of these schemes a real spirit of co-operation between the Australian Government and the State governments. They must inter-relate these services, wherever possible. I do not want to see the States adopting a selfish, parochial position. At the same time, I do not want to see too much centralism from the Australian Government. I want to see a spirit of co-operation at the political level as well as at the bureaucratic level. I have always found that a spirit of co-operation will break down the distrust that exists amongst Federal and State public servants. When we get a real spirit of co-operation real progress is made. 
I have seen co-operation bridge enormous political gaps. Some of the differences in political attitudes were enormous when I was entering into agreements as Minister for Urban and Regional Development in the Whitlam Government. For instance, I can well recall that after discussions with the awfully- I do not use that word as a slur- conservative, some people called him reactionary, Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Tom  Lewis, in the 1974-75 financial year, the Labor Government entered into 8 agreements with that State. Most of those agreements required the co-operation of Country Party Ministers. I can recall entering into agreements with Leon Punch, with Tim Bruxner, with  Deputy  Premier Cutler and also with  Sir John  Fuller. The Federal Labor Government was able to do so because there was give and take, and also because it was found that public servants in the Federal and State spheres had built up a remarkably good basis of goodwill. I want to see this spirit continuing at all levels and on an even broader basis in the Parliamentary sphere. 
Any safeguard is better than none and for this reason it would have made sense to retain this provision abolished by this Bill. Whatever decision is made about the future of this scheme, there is no doubt that the assistance it provides is inadequate. I think that even the Minister would agree with me that the contribution of $ 10m is inadequate. It is a great pity that the Urban and Regional Budget Paper has disappeared from the Budget Papers as it has done this year. I hope that in the coming year it will be reintroduced because it was a document which, I believe, provided a great deal of assistance in resource allocation, particularly with regard to urban and regional development. According to the Urban and Regional Budget Paper for 1975-76, the scheme provided a total of 3325 units of accommodation to pensioners between 1969 and 1974. 
According to the Minister the 3-year scheme which is about to expire has provided another 2017 units. This makes a total of 5342 single units of accommodation which have been provided since 1969. The latest grant will add another 600 units or so. This means that in total we have provided about 6000 units to date. Unfortunately the Minister did not give any figures on the demand for this sort of housing, that is how many units we really need. But bearing in mind the number of aged and invalid pensioners, class B widows and repatriation pensioners in Australia there is no doubt that the supply is completely inadequate. I stress this. By the use of the census figures it should be possible for the Government to give us an estimate of the number of single pensioners who need these dwelling units. I have no doubt that the number of units that would be required runs into tens of thousands. I emphasise the words 'tens of thousands'. To date in this so-called enlightened year of 1977 we have provided only 6000 single units in the previous 8 years whereas in fact we probably need tens of thousands of them. These single units remain within the public sector and that is an aspect that we should encourage. 
The Government has held the allocation steady at $ 10m. As I said, in our 3 years we made $30m available. I think the Minister will agree that building costs have increased a great deal since that time. This amount takes no account of that increase. In the coming Budget I hope that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development will be striving for a greater allocation of funds for this purpose. I know that the Minister will remind us again that it is all right to develop the private sector but we cannot develop the public sector. And of course this is a public sector project that we need to develop. Therefore I realise that under this Government it will be given a low priority. 
We do not oppose this legislation. I think that with the objective criticism that I have given and also the 2 reports that are available- the Holmes and Bailey reports, which contain a good deal of research- there is much evidence to consider. I hope the Government does just not run too quickly and use this important issue as a political football and include it in the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement as a gimmick. That is the last thing in the world we want to do with the people involved with pension dwellings. I am glad to see the Minister nodding his head in agreement. I hope that I can get him to agree with me at a later date when the new agreement is before us that this matter will not be used as a political football in the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Queensland Premier has said that the recent Premiers Conference agreed that primary produce would be exempted from the price-wage freeze? Was the Queensland Premier correct? If so, does the Prime Minister agree that contrary statements made by him and the Treasurer both inside and outside the Parliament are misleading? 
I ask the Prime Minister again whether he is aware that the Queensland Premier has said that the recent Premiers Conference agreed that primary produce would be exempted from the price and wage freeze. Is the Queensland Premier correct? 
-Normally I do not enter this sort of bun fight when the mentality seems to be 'We did this and they did that'. But the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  said that I made a statement that the trade union movement is the main opposition to the Government in this country. He did not mention the treachery of the parties opposite, and the treachery of the forces involved in the  coup  of 1 1 November- treachery which has never been known before in the history of this Parliament. 
-I refer the Treasurer to the March motor car registration figures showing that there have been only 48 415 new registrations, a drop of 16 per cent on the figure for the previous March of 57 646 car registrations. I ask the Treasurer: Does this post-devaluation panic buying slump reflect the disastrous effects of the Government's devaluaton as further shown by the determination of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd to stand down its workers for at least one week? 
I second the motion and support the call of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  for the resignation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  It is with some regret that the Opposition takes this step for we, like many other Australians, once believed the Minister to be genuine in his support of the East Timorese people to have selfdetermination. I have said on more than one occasion that I thought the Foreign Minister was genuine in that approach. However, I am sad to say that the Minister is a person who wants to be liked by everyone, he is one who likes to get on side with everyone. He likes to be  Mr Nice  Guy. Sadly he has been  Mr Nice  Guy with the Indonesians, much to the regret and of course the suffering of many people. It is indeed tragic that we have been so deceived. 
The extent of the deception is becoming more widely known daily. Complicity by the Foreign Minister with Indonesia's unprovoked aggression against the East Timorese, even before he held his present position, has become known in recent days. These reports are only confirmation of what any objective observer could see all along if he looked at the history of this matter. The Fraser Government and the Foreign Minister were actively engaged in secret betrayal. I want to review the record of the Government and the Foreign Minister. On 4 March last year the Foreign Minister outlined a 4-point policy on East Timor. These 4 points were as follows: First, a call for a withdrawal of Indonesian troops; secondly, a call for the cessation of hostilities; thirdly, a call for the implementation of an act of self-determination; and fourthly, for a resumption of humanitarian aid through the International Committee of the Red Cross. This policy, as outlined, would undoubtedly have had the full support of the Australian people. I stress the words 'the full support of the Australian people'. But sadly it was only words and we can only conclude that this policy was contradicted by the actions of the Government. 
In the United Nations Australia abstained from supporting a General Assembly resolution of November 1976. Among other things the resolution amounted to calling for the implementation of the first 3 points. This action in the eyes of the world amounted to a clear position. The Australian Government was prepared to appease the Indonesian Government in its desire to use armed force to suppress the East Timorese people. Yet this vote in the United Nations was preceded by a series of actions which implied not only an appeasement of the Jakarta generals- particularly the most extremist elements of the Jakarta generals- but also a tacit recognition of the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. The points calling for the withdrawal of Indonesian troops and the ending of hostilities were blatantly contradicted by the business-as-usual ' defence relationship between Australia and Indonesia. 
Throughout 1976 Australia continued military aid and co-operation with Indonesian defence scientists and military training programs. This contradicted the Minister's frequent statements that we were unwavering in putting pressure on the Indonesian Government over East Timor. The call that the International Committee of the Red Cross should resume aid was abandoned even more rapidly. Upon his return to Australia on 17 April 1976 the Foreign Minister said he believed that the International Committee of the Red Cross would be allowed back into East Timor within 2 weeks. This never happened. Again we see an example of the flowery words of the Foreign Minister. 
The Indonesian army, intent on avoiding public exposure of its brutal activities in East Timor, refused the International Committee of the Red Cross access to East Timor. What then did the Foreign Minister do? Instead of raising the matter in his speech to the United Nations Decolonisation Committee in September, he chose to ignore the issue of East Timor entirely. Does the Foreign Minister recall his silence on that occasion, that crucial time when he should have been raising his voice? What 'pressure' did he put on the Indonesian Government? His action on this occasion was no more than another step on the path of appeasement. Instead the Government provided $330,000 to the Indonesian Red Cross, whose inability to provide non-partisan and humanitarian aid is well known. There can be little doubt that this assistance never reached most of the East Timorese people. 
This Government, and in particular its Foreign Minister, has pursued a policy of appeasing the extremist elements among the Indonesian generals. I said this in my speech in the Grievance Day debate of 7 October 1976. Nothing has happened since to alter my belief. I am not alone in this country in this view. Several supporters of the Government have stated this publicly.  Senator Bonner,  in a current Senate debate concerning the proposed appointment of a 
Senate Select Committee to inquire into certain matters relating to East Timor, said that this Government has 'blood on its hands'. The Foreign Minister certainly has blood on his hands. 
The history of this Government on East Timor is one of covert support for the brutal and unprovoked actions of the Indonesian generals against the Timorese people. Even  Mr Malik  has stated that at least 50 000 people may have died in East Timor. Yet the Foreign Minister has made no statement on the allegations made by  Mr Jim  Dunn testifying to massive Indonesian atrocities in East Timor. Nor has he made any statement on the role of Indonesian troops in the deaths of six Australian journalists. He has had  Mr Dunn's  report for 2 months. 
This tight-lipped attitude, this attempt to stifle East Timor as an issue in Australia, is a symptom of a wider policy of 'going all the way with the Djakarta generals'. In 'going all the way' the Minister has undermined Australian integrity, principle and morality. He has undermined Australia's credibility as a nation prepared to act on questions of self-determination and human rights. This is even more damaging when it concerns a people who assisted us so much in the Second World War, a people who made enormous sacrifices for this country by defending our soldiers for so long. The Foreign Minister is aware of the suffering of the East Timorese people in World War II when they lost at least 50 000 people. The East Timorese people were concerned both directly and indirectly during the struggle against the Japanese in World War II. If we compare that suffering and those deaths to the whole of Australia's losses in theatres of war- Australia lost only 26 000 people- we can see the real sacrifices that have been made by the East Timorese people. I ask that this aspect be given concern. This Government's loss of principle reaches its most tragic level in the recent relationships and activities of the Foreign Minister. In the Melbourne  Herald  of 21 September 1976 the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  is reported as having said: 
You remember during the second visit of Peacock, even Peacock explained the difficulty there. 
By 'there', he means Australia. The article continues: 
My position in the Parliament - 

 Mr Peacock was talking about the Australian Parliament- is like this and maybe.  Mr Malik,  you feel unhappy but I must wait. 
But in the long run we understand that this is the only way for Indonesia. 
That 's why 1 am sure ( we should ) give them time. 
This is the smooth as silk man- the man who, with his silver tongue and soft hand, likes to be nice to all people. This sad situation is being revealed more and more in this way. Many Australians have remained suspicious of the real policies of the Foreign Minister. This was justified when, in March of this year, information started to appear which threw doubt upon his public stance. On 31 March, the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  asked the Foreign Minister several questions relating to his visit to Bali in September 1975. In his answer to the honourable member for Fraser, the Foreign Minister did not deny outright the questions regarding the substance of his conversation with the Indonesian officials. All he said was that the allegations were: 
The antithesis of the viewpoint we were putting forward. 
He also stated that they were: 
Contradictory of all the views and concerns I was expressing at the time. 
In other words the Foreign Minister in answer to 3 specific questions relating to the discussions agreed to the first. He said of the 2 other questions that it was contradictory to what he had been saying in public. This failure to deny outright the charges that he had told the Indonesian officials that they must act swiftly and efficiently in East Timor and that the new Liberal-National Country Party Government would not obstruct a takeover is bad enough. Surely if the report was inaccurate he should have made a straight out denial. Yet, in his answer he went a step further. He implied that the discussions held in Bali were of an informal nature. He said that the meeting in Bali was arranged- I quote him- 'Without my knowledge'. He repeated that during Question Time today but he added one other comment this afternoon. He said quite clearly that there was nothing more and nothing less involved. He said that he went to the Ambassador to get a visa to visit Bali and that nothing more and nothing less was involved. Anybody who knows the Foreign Minister knows that 'nothing more and nothing less' is an overstatement. It is an utterly stupid statement to make. Who is he trying to kid when he said that it was nothing more and nothing less than just asking for a visa? 
Of course, we know that the Foreign Minister is all things to all men. We are aware of his pride, his dignity and his ego. We know how vain the man is. We also know that he could not rely on that alone. On 2 May a cable from the Australian Ambassador in Jakarta dated 29 September 1975 was published. The cable indicated that the 
Foreign Minister had arranged his visit in advance with the Indonesian Ambassador in Canberra. If the contents of this cable are accurate, then not only is the Foreign Minister guilty of providing further support for the wishes of the Jakarta generals to take over East Timor, he is also misleading the Australian Parliament. The Foreign Minister's duplicity, as shown in the release of the cable and the  National Times  summary of his discussion, has been exposed. It is a tragedy that his activities in Bali were not revealed at the time because it may have saved thousands of East Timorese lives. It is clear that the actions of the Foreign Minister in September 1975 have written a black page in the history of Australian foreign policy. This has been added to by the way in which the Foreign Minister misled the Parliament in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Fraser on 3 1 March. Several years ago the Minister, whilst he was Minister for External Territories, offered to resign because of advertising involving his wife. The present issue is of far greater importance. It involves the deaths of more than 50 000 East Timorese people. This has been confirmed even by the Indonesian Foreign Minister. This issue involved Australia's integrity and credibility amongst the nations of the world. The Minister should now take the honourable course. He should resign in the interests of the Australian Parliament and his own prestige. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. I refer the Treasurer to the last quarterly issue of the  Australian Economic Review,  the official journal of the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. Is the Treasurer aware that the Institute predicts that unemployment is likely to increase until well into 1978 because of the Government's economic policies? In the light of this comment, can the Treasurer explain how and by how much unemployment will be reduced by the end of this calendar year? 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer him to the decline in March housing approvals as revealed by the official figures issued yesterday. Can this decline be expected to continue as forecast by  Mr Cameron,  the Director of the Australian Bankers Association? Further, is the decline due to the tight monetary policies pursued by the Government, as shown by the decline of $ 100m in cash terms estimated for approvals in the current financial year as compared with 1975-76? Is the Government contemplating increasing the supply of money to the residential construction sector? 
-I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Government by reducing the present and future capital available to the Corporation has ignored the opportunities available to it to influence the policies of lending institutions in the housing and land fields'. 
The purpose of this Bill is two-fold. First, it proposes to cause the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation to be treated under all laws relating to rates, taxes and charges of the Commonwealth, States and Territories in the same manner as its private enterprise competitors. Secondly, the Bill proposes to provide the Corporation with greater flexibility in regard to the scope of the insurance offered, in other words, to remove arbitrary restrictions originally placed on insurable loans and approved securities. 
The issue of paramount importance to this Government is, of course, the proposal to remove the so-called unfair advantage the Corporation is supposed to have over its competitors. Originally the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation had no private enterprise competitors when it was introduced in 1964 and, therefore, it was not necessary to take this action. 
-The situation is that, over the years, the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation has in fact gained over half of the insurance field. In fact it controls something like 60 per cent of the market. The Mortgage Guarantee and Insurance Corporation of America, which is basically a foreign owned competitor, controls  approximately 25 per cent of the market. We are asked to pay rates and taxes in order to allow foreign competitors and foreign shareholders to compete on more favourable terms. The Australian Mortgage Insurance Corporation controls about 15 percent. 
This Government hates to see a successful service being offered by a government authority. We just have to recall the Medibank fiasco to appreciate the Government's attitude to government authorities. I said that the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation was introduced in 1964. My colleague opposite interjected and argued that it was 1965. From 1964-65 to the present the Corporation has accrued reserves of something like $ 12.7m. Now, of course, the Corporation intends to hand back to Treasury, because of back taxes, an amount of $4.5m. 
The Minister says that is right. But I believe that is a very foolish thing to do. The fact is that at this stage the money should be kept within the housing industry. This money should not go to Consolidated Revenue. This money which is needed by the housing industry in fact can be held in reserve. I hope that  Hansard  is not recording the attempts of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  to interject in a prattling manner. The fact is that, even under this Bill, the Corporation will be able to invest funds in certain other instrumentalities not only in the housing field but also in other areas, particularly local government. So, do not let us prattle on about what the Corporation can do with its money. We know what it can do with its money. It is not just enough to require the Corporation to begin to pay rates, taxes and charges. The Government has to take responsibility for a large slice of the operating surplus. As I said, the Government is to take this year $4.5m of the Corporation's available capital. 
The other purpose of the Bill is to provide the Corporation with greater flexibility in regard to the scope of the insurance offered and the manner in which the future surpluses can be utilised. These aspects of the Bill are worthy of support. We have been arguing for this type of change for many years now. It appears to me that this Government has at long last taken one step towards recognising the nature of the problems facing the potential home owners in Australia today.  Ad hoc  measures to patch up particularly politically contentious failures in segments of the housing market or to meet the demands of the best organised pressure groups must not continue. In coming to grips with the housing problems in Australia and in developing a comprehensive housing policy, it is essential that fair and equitable objectives be identified. Labor's objectives, simply stated, are that we believe that each household is entitled to adequate and conveniently located shelter at a price which does not impose too great a strain on its resources. With this in mind, the first objective of the housing policy must be to stabilise the availability of home purchase finance for all groups within the community and to encourage the development of various means of increasing access to home ownership where this is prejudiced by terms on which the home purchase finance is available. There is a variety of means to increase such access which do not require any subsidy. I stress that point. 
I know of many cases both today and in the past in which people within certain fields have faced an extremely difficult problem in trying to obtain finance. We know that people who earn up to 95 per cent of the average weekly earnings receive subsidies. We know that the Government, through its Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, makes money available to the States so that they, in turn, can make finance available to people who earn up to 85 per cent of the average weekly earnings. A great deal of money is advanced through the Home Builders Account. Some 30 per cent of the money that is made available each year is forwarded through terminating building societies. Home seekers receive favourable terms from terminating building societies so long as they do not earn in excess of 95 per cent of the average weekly earnings. I have stressed in the past and I stress it again that those people who earn up to 135 per cent of the average weekly earnings find it extremely difficult to meet the repayment gap- it is a repayment gap situation- particularly single income families. Regrettably, the situation will get worse. I believe that interest rates will rise in the coming year. In fact, interest rates now are being pressed upwards. We know that this is the current situation. We know that the February loan failed and we know that the May loan will fail. We know that the Government is not getting inflation under control and that is a sad situation. I am not trying to make political capital out of this. It is a fact of life. 
The problems facing Australia are difficult. Obviously, in the broader field, there are a lot of drains on the Commonwealth Treasury which is not an unlimited Pandora's box. Therefore I am not advocating that unlimited subsidies be extended. I do not think that we can solve our problems in that way. I will suggest programs later in my comments. The development of a more flexible approach to mortgage finance is important. 
The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation can now play an important part in improving this access. The Corporation, if it adopts a flexible and imaginative approach, can go some of the way towards overcoming one of the major problems confronting housing in Australia- the problem of the income threshold or the repayment gap. As I said earlier, that difficulty is faced by people with incomes up to 135 per cent of the average weekly earnings, particularly those households with a single income. One major problem facing the people seeking to be home owners and many existing home owners today is access to finance. It is a great problem for them to get their feet on the rung of the ladder. Once they can get their feet on the rung of the ladder, the problem is not so difficult. 
Well, I see him nodding his head and I think that means that he agrees. It is his problem now. It certainly was the problem of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  when he was Minister for Housing and it certainly was my problem when I inherited responsibility for the Australian Housing Corporation from the honourable member for Hughes. I think this will be a problem of the community as a whole. But when we were in government, we initiated a great number of schemes. 
The Minister should table the Housing Corporation's first annual report, which he has had for many months. A lot of intelligent work and suggestions went into that report. The fact is that the Government refuses to table that report. It abolished the Housing Corporation. The Government will not put that report on the table of the House so that the people of Australia can see the suggestions of some of the finest brains in the housing field in this country; for instance, men like Alec Ramsay who is the  chairman  of the Housing Trust of South Australia, Hugh Stretton, who has one of the finest rational minds on housing, and Pat Troy, who was the  Deputy Chairman  of the Housing Corporation and who, on the question of land, has made a more revolutionary contribution to housing and land than any other person in government during our time. I might add that he is still a member of the South Australian Housing Trust. It is because of his driving force that in South Australia land is so much cheaper than it is in any other capital city in Australia. Because of the finance made available by our Government to the Dunstan Labor Government, the South Australian Housing Trust is the major land developer in South Australia, particularly in the outer Adelaide region. In that region land prices are not skyrocketing to the same extent as they are in other areas of Australia. 
The proposals that I am putting forward can be earned out by the conservative and traditional lending institutions. Lending institutions are properly concerned with the security of people 's personal savings. Naturally they tend to lend to &gt;w risk borrowers- borrowers who fall within the 25 per cent to 35 per cent repayment rule. Without guarantees, they are unlikely, as a whole, to grant flexible mortgages such as short repayment mortgages, mortgages carried to a constant proportion of income, capital indexed mortgages, deferred repayment mortgages, short term mortgages based on household income and which are capable of being extended in term if the household income is reduced, and government guaranteed second mortgages. All these matters were examined when we were in government. They were also examined in the first annual report of the Housing Corporation. But, of course, the Minister does not want to deal with these problems. 
The lending institutions cannot be criticised for their caution in granting mortgage loans because of the problems of finance. There are legitimate concerns about cash flows and such institutions prefer the most secure loans. Of course, the wealthy always get the first priority; it is the battlers who really need assistance. The battlers, as I say, consist of that group up to the middle income earners who receive up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. This Government, which is supposed to be a liberal government, which is supposed to represent that middle group of people, is not representing that group. If the middle ground people have been sold out by anybody it is by this Government. 
If we look at income tax indexation we see which group of people are being attacked most. The middle income earners are being attacked, because of this Government. In every submission it makes to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission it attacks the middle income earners. They are the ones who are being affected because the very wealthy- the people on high incomes- can look after themselves. The middle income earners are being affected not only in the taxation field but also in housing because this Government has not brought forward any housing policy in the 18 months it has been in office. 
The home ownership income threshold cannot be crossed by a significant proportion of the community unless the degree of nsk seen in them by lending institutions can be eliminated. A national housing policy must be heavily concerned with influencing both the total volume and the distribution of private sector funds for housing. It must do this because the majority of Australians have to depend on those funds for the satisfaction of their housing needs. One means of coming to grips with the problem would be for the Commonwealth to underwrite the risk taken by lending institutions. If the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation is imaginative and aggressive it should solve only the insurance aspect- one of the first objectives of housing policy. The stabilisation of the availability of home purchase finance and access to home ownership will remain low until the Government realises that its primary role in housing is to develop policy which is aimed at directing and influencing the supply of money and the terms upon which it is available to meet housing needs. 
Whilst the importance of the housing sector of policies of overall economic management is recognised and whilst we recognise that housing should not be used as a primary tool of economic management and that it cannot be wholly insulated from the varying impact of national economic policies, we feel some measures can and should be taken to secure a stable flow of funds to specific areas of need. I have developed this thesis at length elsewhere and shall quickly summarise it now. We on this side of the House argue that the extent to which the Government intervenes in the housing market should be such as would assist those in particular need. To achieve this it is our intention, on our return to government, to establish an Australian housing corporation. Its main aim will be to secure the levels of finance needed to maintain the production and the sale of housing at levels consistent with need and to maintain prices within the means of home seekers. The corporation will be directed towards marshalling resources and directing them through the existing institutionsI stress this point- to those in need of housing. It will not be designed to compete with existing institutions, nor will its policies be designed to do so. 
Unlike the Government, we recognise the need to secure an adequate level of finance. The fact that the Government does not recognise this need is demonstrated in several ways. The Government has missed several opportunities to channel funds to building societies and other lending institutions for lending via flexible mortgage conditions to people confronted by the income threshold. The Government abolished the original Housing Corporation and took back into Consolidated Revenue the substantial funds available to that Corporation. In doing this the Government ignored the recommendations in the first annual report of the Housing Corporation. I stress again that contrary to statutory requirements, this Government has refused to table that report. Apparently these recommendations supported the concept of an institution of the type just described- an institution which secures funds and lends them to existing institutions, which lends them to people in need, that is, to people below the income threshold. I stress again that people in need these days are not just people who receive less than average weekly earnings. They include people earning as much as 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. My view is that this will go even higher in the coming year. 
In the Bill before the House the Government has missed another opportunity. One of the pleasing aspects of the Bill, if I can say something nice about the Bill, is that it gives the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation the right to invest funds in building societies and elsewhere. Of course, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  kept jabbering earlier about what the Government will do with the funds. It is already set out in the Bill in which areas the funds can be used. Quite frankly, I think this is an intelligent approach. The only- if I might use the wordstupid approach to this issue is for the Government to drain $4.5m from these funds and divert it back into Consolidated Revenue. There is an intelligent way in which these funds can be invested in the interest of the housing sector or related instrumentalities. That is what I argue. But the Government, in its wisdom, saw fit to confiscate $4.5m of the funds available to the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, funds which should have been channelled into building societies which were prepared to offer flexible mortgage schemes or, if not to the building societies, to the land commissions. The land commissions of New South Wales would love to see this finance flowing to them. It could have been provided to sewerage authorities or to local government authorities, which this amendment provides. 
The Government saw fit not to do this. It saw fit to abolish the original Housing Corporation. It saw fit to ignore the real problems of housing. It saw fit to turn its back on that significant proportion of the community which cannot cross the income threshold. It has aggravated the problems in housing by these and other closely associated issues. This Government's  ad hoc  monetary policies are the best examples of its failure to examine the need to secure an adequate level of finance for housing needs. These policies have had an erratic effect on the availability of finance. It demonstrates further that this Government has not faced up to the housing issue and has failed to use the mechanisms available to it to influence the policies of lending institutions. It is for those reasons that I believe that while there are positive aspects within this legislation, there are also several negative aspects. Therefore, I ask the House to support the amendment I have moved. 
In the first place,  Mr Speaker,  might I set out the sequence of events tonight. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  came into the chamber tonight and sought leave for the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  to make a statement. The Leader of the House gave no information about the contents of the statement. I asked him whether he had spoken to the Manager of Opposition Business about the matter and he said he had not, although he had sought to locate him. I asked whether 2 hours notice had been given and the Leader of the House said that it had not. Then I asked whether there was a written statement and he said there was not. That is what happened on such a serious matter at this late hour; at a time when the Parliament is going into recess for at least 2 weeks. 
False allegations have been made by the Minister for the Capital Territory. I take it, and I say this in all seriousness, that the Minister had a clearance from the Cabinet to make a statement on security at this time, something which normally the Government of the day refuses to do. Do I take it that because the Leader of the House, the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party, came into the House and gave a clearance for this junior Minister to make a statement on security that we can expect the Government, at any time when serious allegations have been made, to make a statement about security? Do I also take it that when people give evidence to the police, and particularly the police in the Australian Capital Territory, that evidence might be quoted accurately, or in some cases falsely, in the House by a Minister of the Fraser Government? To what level will the Government stoop to use such information, slurs and innuendos? 
Let me examine how this whole matter came about. The headline in today's  Daily Mirror  reads: 'Australia's Watergate', 'Gough's files raided by ASIO'. It is well known that  Mr Murdoch,  the publisher of the  Daily Mirror,  is a close personal friend of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  We know that the same.  Mr Murdoch  is a strong supporter of the Government. In every way possible he has maligned and slurred the Labor Party. He has misused and twisted and turned the Party's policies, completely distorting them in every way. Let me read what the  Daily Mirror  states under the byline of 
Trevor Kavanagh, the head of the bureau of the  Daily Mirror  here in Canberra. After 'Australia 's Watergate', 'Gough's files raided by ASIO', the article states: 
Break-in to photograph documents. 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has been blamed for a Watergate-style break-in at the Labor Party 's national headquarters in Canberra just after the 1 975 election. 
Security sources in Canberra say ASIO agents entered the premises at night and forced open a filing cabinet crammed with documents from the office of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam. 
They then photographed the documents and replaced them. 
It is understood that because of this the Government was able to threaten this week to table a list of allegedly stolen documents in Federal Parliament. 
Now let us put this matter in perspective. The Minister alleged that the Labor Party had done this. That was dishonest of the Minister. The allegations are published in an anti-Labor newspaper- and the allegations are made by the Murdoch Press. The Minister tried to draw on what  Mr Hawke  is reported in the  Daily Mirror  as saying. I do not know exactly what  Mr Hawke  said. I do not know what  Mr Combe  said. It was only while the Minister was speaking that this newspaper was handed to me and I can only refer to what is stated in it. In part this is what it says: 
When told of the allegations today, the  President  of the ALP,  Mr Hawke,  said: 'I believe what you are saying is true'. 
That is what  Mr Hawke  is quoted as saying.  Mr David  Combe, the Australian Labor Party national secretary, is reported as having said 'the ASIO link did not surprise him'. I assume that both men were informed by the correspondent of what was published in this newspaper and were just concurring with it. It is their belief and the belief of a lot of people in Australia that ASIO is involved in political affairs. Speaking on behalf of honourable members on this side of the House there have been no allegations by the leadership of this Party that ASIO should be used by governments in political matters, particularly against other political parties. I know that individual honourable members can make allegations against governments, against ASIO and against other security forces operating in Australia but never has the Labor Party used this subject in the way that the Government is using it now. 
What really concerns me is that a Minister, even of the lowly level of the Minister for the Capital Territory can come in here with the full authority of the leadership of his Party and suspend Standing Orders so that this statement could be made. It was not a prepared or written statement. The Minister spoke off the top of his head and I want to know as the Deputy Leader of the Party on this side of the House whether he is speaking for the Cabinet or the Government. From now on will security matters be allowed to be used in politics? Will Ministers be able to use these matters as they have been used tonight? It is an utter disgrace. But what is good for the goose is good for the gander. 
So that we can get the matter clear I ask that this article published on the front page of the  Daily Mirror  be incorporated in  Hansard. 
MrStaley-Tableit. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I preface it by noting that, with the honourable exception of the late  Senator Hannaford,  neither the Government nor any of its supporters even criticised or questioned the Australian Government's involvement in the Vietnam War. In view of  President  Carter's statement that the 'moral and intellectual poverty' of cold war obsessions had led the United States into Vietnam, does the Government intend to examine its own past mistakes before developing new foreign policies based on  President  Carter's call for a wider concern for human rights? 
Does the Treasurer agree that yesterday's partially indexed wage rise provides a further reduction in real wages? Is the Treasurer aware that yesterday's official figures indicate that there are few grounds for optimism for industrial output recovery? Finally, I ask: If devaluation has not led to industrial recovery but instead will add significantly to inflation, how is the Government going to increase consumer spending when real wages are declining? 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer him to the official figures reporting that the price of inputs into manufacturing industry rose by 7.1 per cent in the March quarter. Does the Treasurer agree that this will provide a substantial inflationary pressure likely to show up in the June quarter consumer price index figures? Also, does the Treasurer agree that industrial output is stagnant in areas where sales are susceptible to consumer spending? Finally, can the Treasurer say how Australia is to achieve an economic recovery in employment creating industries if the Government's failure to implement election promises both on tax indexation and wage indexation has the effect of reducing real incomes? 
-Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development agreed with the request of the Victorian Minister for State Development and Decentralisation for a ministerial meeting on Albury-Wodonga to be held in the next 2 weeks? I further ask: Is the Minister aware of  Mr Crozier's  allegations that the Federal Government was seeking an excuse to bail out of the agreement and abandon the Albury-Wodonga growth centre project? 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. I refer him to the media release on crude oil pricing issued yesterday. I ask: Did confidential discussions between officers of the Department of National Resources and representatives of the oil industry involve informing the oil industry of decisions already made by Cabinet? Further, when will a statement be made to the Parliament on these much delayed matters so that the elected representatives and the Australian people will have the same opportunity to be informed about them as those people who have vested interests in the oil industry? 
-I ask the Treasurer: Do the official figures for the 5 months to May, when compared with the 5 months preceding the devaluation, indicate that the seasonally adjusted monthly average of export income since devaluation has increased by only 1.7 per cent while the average monthly import payments on the same basis have increased by 18.4 per cent and as yet have not shown up significantly in the consumer price index? Further I ask: Do these figures indicate that devaluation has not stimulated an exportled recovery, and instead threatens further erosion of real wages through substantial price increases which will stimulate inflation, particularly in the June quarter? 
-I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. Are recent reports that the United States of America will supply uranium to India true? Is the Acting Prime Minister aware that India is not a signatory to the nuclear nonproliferation treaty and has violated the purposes of the treaty in secrectly manufacturing nuclear weapons? Finally, will the Government, in line with the safeguard proposals announced last week, refuse to supply uranium to the United States on the grounds that its government may permit the re-export of uranium to a country that is determined to continue the manufacture of nuclear weapons? 
-I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Construction, by reminding him that yesterday, in response to a question, the Minister, when referring to the state of the non-residential sector of the building industry, said: 
Even more significant is the fact that the private sector is now dominant  vis-a-vis  the government sector. 
It is not a fact that traditionally the Government sector provides $2 of investment for every dollar provided by the private sector in the nonresidential building sector? Therefore I ask: Even with a private sector recovery, does this not mean that overall activity in the industry will decline next year in real terms because of the Government's misguided budgetary strategy? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill 1977. Once the Parliament passed the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill 1976 abolishing the Australian Housing Corporation last December action such as this became a natural flow-on to clear up the administrative machinery involved. In effect this Bill ends the statutory corporation status of the Defence Service Homes Corporation and brings the administrative machinery ultimately under the Public Service Board. The original purpose of this legislation was to destroy the Australian Housing Corporation and to do so only because that Corporation had been an Australian Labor Party initiative. The Government has yet to show the Australian people that this new policy is in any way of real benefit to them. 
Recent Press speculation, if one can believe it, indicates that this Government intends in the Budget session to hand over the new defence service homes loans to the State building societies. That could mean that those people who are eligible for defence service home loans will have the interest rates on those loans increased by up to three times the present rate. As honourable members are aware, the present rate is 3% per cent for the first $ 12,000 and 714 per cent for the $3,000 between $12,000 and $15,000. If the permanent building societies or even the terminating building societies were to administer these loans, which has been suggested and which is certainly under discussion by the Government, it would mean that those eligible for defence service home loans could have to pay something like lite per cent interest on their loans. I can conclude only that this form of subsidisation of the building societies is another example of this Government's dogmatic determination to destroy the Labor Party's overall urban and regional development policy. In so doing it will undermine a very fine scheme which has been in existence for so long and which has been administered even by the present Government. 
As I said at the outset, this Bill is basically only a machinery measure. Be that as it may, it does impinge upon the overall housing situation as well as upon an area in which the Australian Government is directly involved in helping those people who served in time of war, some of whom sacrificed quite a lot and were badly injured. It is a commitment of war that we are trying to meet in this time of peace. I know that sometimes governments find it extremely hard to meet such commitments in the long term, but this is one commitment that they have been able to meet. 
I know that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  has to contend with the same Treasury as we had when we were in government and that the Minister will have the problem of fighting its efforts to force up the interest rates. I am not saying dogmatically that the Government intends to hand over the administration of these loans to the permanent building societies in the States, but the speculation certainly is very strong that this will be the situation. This matter certainly has been under discussion. During our time in government the Treasury wanted to increase the interest rate to the long term bond rate. In fact, one of my achievements in the last Whitlam Ministry was that I was able to defeat that move. The Treasury had a great many victories in the last Budget of the Whitlam Government, but that was one occasion on which I and my Cabinet colleagues- honourable members know what would have happened to the matter if it had been raised in Caucus- were able to defeat the Treasury. 
We know that the Minister is again under pressure. With the little bit of muscle that the Labor Cabinet was able to use it was able to defeat the Treasury then. I am wondering whether the Minister will have the same strength now. I understand that on one occasion the Cabinet even passed increased interest rates, but  Senator Greenwood  was able to get to the Prime Minister and was able to veto the decision. I wonder whether the Government will be able to continue efforts to stop this erosion. 
I hope that the Government, as did other coalition governments in days past, will give war service homes a decent priority. There are delays. When there are shortages of labour or shortages of both materials and labour in the industry a delay might be expected, but in the housing industry today there is no reason why there should be a delay of 1 1 months to a year such as is occurring at present. We on the Opposition side would assist the Minister to agitate against his more conservative colleagues in the Cabinet as well as that awful conservative organisation, Treasury, and at least wipe away the waiting period during which people who are eligible for a war service homes loan and have one approved have to borrow money at a higher interest rate. These are problems we will have to look at in the future. 
I refer now to the overall housing situation. In the 3 years of the Labor Administration a problem was building up. It is accelerating day by day and month by month. Families with a single income equivalent to something like 135 per cent of average weekly earnings are unable to meet monthly repayments, which are set by the lending societies at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. More and more people are being forced out of the group who can meet monthly repayments economically. In certain areas the Australian Government becomes involved in what we call subsidised schemes. We are now debating one of them. Others come under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. The Commonwealth makes money directly available to the State governments. People earning up to 85 per cent of average weekly earnings are at least allowed to register with the State housing commissions. At least 30 per cent of the funds made available under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement are set aside in what we call the Builders Account. That is another subsidised scheme in which the Australian Government is involved. 
Under the scheme people earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings have a chancethey may have to wait a while- of getting a home. But the sad situation is that there is a growing group of people, those earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings, whom the financial institutions and the Government have not been able to assist. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I know that you are drawing me back to the Bill, and I am aware of your guidance. I was just making those comments in passing. I will come back to the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1 977: 
Further to his response to question No. 1825  (Hansard,  15 February 1977, page 91 ), will he now make the information available. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 )  Did he state in reply to a question without notice on  10  March  1977  that his Department has, under his orders, set up a task force to monitor the public debate on uranium between the release of the First Ranger Report and the release of the second. 
If so, who makes up the task force referred to and what are their classifications and normal functions. 
Was this task force opposed to the monitoring group established within his Department at the initiative of concerned officers and did it only subsequently receive his tacit approval. 
Does the monitoring group consist of one officer only; if so, what is the name and classification of that officer. 
If the monitoring group consists of more than one officer, how many officers are involved and what is the name and classification of each officer. 
Does the monitoring group only provide a newsclipping service. 
7 )  If not, what else does it provide. 
On what dates has he received reports from either the monitoring group or the task force. 
Will he make these reports available to further the debate, inform the public and demonstrate that his Government is prepared to stimulate the uranium debate in accordance with the spirit of the First Ranger Report which stated that the final decisions on uranium rest with the ordinary man. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. I refer him to last month's review of business statistics. Is it true that retail sales, new motor registrations and building approvals were down in the last quarter? Further, in the face of this massive vote of no confidence from the Australian consumer, does the Government plan, through tax cuts or other stimulatory expenditure, to revive consumer confidence? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Did he, when he was acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development for some time in 1976, receive the annual report of the Australian Housing Corporation in accordance with sub-section 48 ( I ) of the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975. 
If so, on what date did he receive the annual report. 
Did he comply with sub-section 48 (4) of the Act and cause the annual report to be laid before each House of Parliament within the prescribed 1 5 sitting days; if not, why not. 
I will be confining my remarks to the ministerial statement about the nuclear safeguards policy. Because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said earlier in the life of this Parliament that there would be a wide ranging debate on the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry during the Budget session, I prepared myself only for a speech on the ministerial statement about the nuclear safeguards policy. 
The nuclear safeguards policy has been forced on the Government by 2 factors. The first is a rather hasty effort to get into step with the modifications to the policy of the United States of America that were announced recently by President Carter. The Government wanted some semblance of a safeguards policy, no matter how lacking it was in sense or logic, before the Prime Minister's visit to Washington this month. The second is to bolster the Government's case for an early acceptance of the need to go ahead with uranium mining and export before the full implications of the Fox report sink in with the Australian people. Past coalition governments have approved export contracts for uranium without showing the slightest interest in safeguards. The motives behind this latest ploy are all too obvious. The Prime Minister in effect was forced to devise a safeguards policy before the Fox report was released. It does not seem to have occurred to the Prime Minister that his announcing of a safeguards policy was prejudging the issue. This makes a mockery of the Fox Committee's call for a full debate on the many complex issues involved in its reports. 
In the Press at the weekend Professor Kerr, a member of the Fox Committee, referred in scathing terms to the pathetic nature of the parliamentary debate permitted by the Fraser Government. He reinforced the point that I have made several times in this House, that is, that an hour or two allotted to parliamentary debate of the 2 Fox reports is no substitute for full and sustained public participation. There will be a further debate of the second Fox report in the Budget session, as I said earlier, and, if I may say so, it will be a further waste of time. In the intervening months the Government will continue by stealth with the preparations for the export of the uranium. The miners and the mining companies will gear up as rapidly as they can for an early start to getting uranium out of the ground and out of the country. It would have been more honest for the Government to get the sham debate out of the way and announce that it was going to have the full debate this week. 
The safeguards put by the Prime Minister to the Parliament are completely unsatisfactory. The Prime Minister's 10 proposals are filled with contradictions. In practice they would not work. It is not made clear when and where these safeguards will be applied. Will they apply to existing contracts or will they be applied only to future contracts? The Prime Minister made it quite plain that the new safeguards are needed because the present ones are not strong enough to cover Australia's enhanced status as a uranium producer. But Australia now has contracts for the supply of over 9000 tonnes of yellowcake. So far, less than 1000 tonnes have been supplied. The Prime Minister has continued to commit us to the export of more than 8000 tonnes of yellowcake without adequate safeguards. They have been left to the protection of the international safeguards which the Prime Minister admits are not good enough. The Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  knows that. 
Turning to the other provisions put forward by the Prime Minister one finds that the measure of safety they provide is an illusion. It is implied that the safeguards of the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty are defective; yet we find when we look closely at these tougher safeguards that nothing has been added which will remove these defects and provide stiffer safeguards. The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty cannot prevent the diversion of fissile material to weapons use. India produced its bomb without violating existing safeguards. It used plutonium from a research reactor provided 20 years ago by Canada. When Canada withdrew its supplies from India the gesture proved futile because the United States and later the Soviet Union kept up supplies of enriched uranium to the Indian Government. We cannot expect Australia to be any more successful than Canada in dictating the end use of its uranium supplies. Even with the tightest controls, supplies of enriched uranium and plutonium can go amiss. The nuclear accounting systems at present are inadequate. The Acting Prime Minister must agree with that. For example, the Federal General Accounting Office of the United States has just revealed that up to 9 tonnes of enriched plutonium and enriched uranium could not be accounted for at privately owned nuclear facilities. This was an increase of 3.5 tonnes over previous estimates. Anybody with common sense can imagine the nuclear weapons that could be made from that amount of plutonium. Uranium cannot be located, cannot be accounted for and cannot be assured of not getting into the wrong hands. Yet the Government says that it wants to leave the safeguarding of our further exports to the international agencies. 
The Government is being extremely naive to suppose that if it moves to mine and export it will be able to account for every ounce of uranium supplied. It is just as naive to suppose that the safeguards will have any effect on those nuclear weapons producers which have signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The so-called safeguard here is a bilateral agreement that Australian uranium will not be used for offensive purposes. That cannot prevent our uranium from replacing uranium supplied by other sources. Such a displacement would allow the diversion of supplies to weapons production without any technical infringement of the safeguards in the bilateral agreement. Australian uranium would permit the diversion of uranium from other suppliers who might not have insisted on a bilateral agreement on safeguards and whose conditions are not as strong as ours. With the best intentions, the Australian Government could be contributing to nuclear weapons proliferation. I remind the House of recommendation 3 of the first Fox report, which reads in part: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
Honourable members know that that is the one binding and firm recommendation of the first report. We know that if we continue to mine uranium we will accelerate the development of nuclear weapons not only by those nations which already have them but also by other nations which wish to get them. 
Turning to the other provisions, the Government 's fifth safeguard provides a so-called fall back position. If the international safeguards fail to apply the bilateral agreement, Australia would give guarantees similar to those international guarantees. That may make the international safeguards work in some situations in which they might not otherwise work. But it does not get around the problem that international safeguards may not be effective even when they can be applied. If the safeguards are weak in the first place there is little point in patting oneself on the back because one has a fall back position that ensures that they will be applied. 
The Fraser Government's sixth proposal- the re-export provision- has the potential to be the best aspect of the Fraser Government's proposals. Under the bilateral agreements, reexport of Australian uranium by an approved client would be conditional on Australian Government approval. If this could be made to stick, then of course it would be an extremely valuable safeguard. The Prime Minister was extremely short on detail about how such an agreement could be enforced. The only sanction that springs to mind is enforcement of contractual obligation through the international justice machinery. It is hard to see how such a sanction would act to deter a customer bent on re-exporting. Cutting off future supplies need not deter. I hope the Acting Prime Minister understands that. It did not deter India when Canada cut off supplies. 
With regard to reprocessing, the Government's offer is a pledge to consult and co-operate with international studies and consultations. This is a rather dishonest way of dodging the issue. In particular I refer to the crucial debate about reprocessing between the United States and European governments. This debate has not stopped reprocessing with its attendant dangers of proliferation. All that the Government's commitment means is that Australia will not take a firm stand on reprocessing, nor has it anything of substance to contribute to the debate. If it has, I have not heard it from the Acting Prime Minister. I hope to hear it in this debate. 
It is just as unrealistic to expect that Australia could enforce adequate physical security over nuclear materials. How could we do this if yellowcake is already in the hands of a customer? How could it be enforced? Even more farfetched is the implication in the fifth provision of the Fraser Government's proposal that nuclear material supplied by Australia should remain under safeguards for its full life. The full life of nuclear material is at least 300 000 years. It is about time that the people who talk about looking after and pohang these safeguards understood that point. How could such a provision be enforced? Australia could not ensure that safeguards would apply for one year, let alone 300 000 years! 
In total, these provisions provide no safeguards for the peaceful use of any Australian exports of uranium. There are no teeth in these safeguards. They could not be enforced. The only card the Australian Government has is to withhold further supplies once a breach has occurred. In this situation part of Government policy would have to be as in recommendation 6 of the first Fox report which the Government has already rejected. Recommendation 6 states: 
A decision to mine and sell uranium should not be made unless the Commonwealth Government ensures that the Commonwealth can, at any time, on the basis of considerations of the nature discussed in this report, immediately terminate those activities, permanently, indefinitely or for a specified period. 
This may prevent aggravation but it will not undo the basic damage. Until safeguards covering the disposal of Australian uranium can be assured there is only one course open to the Australian Government- it must stop the mining and export of Australian uranium. The safeguards contained in the Prime Minister's statement are only a mask for the Government's basic motive, and that is greed. The Government wants to make more money. It wants to earn money by exporting uranium. However, I shall deal more fully with this matter in another debate. The greed of Liberal Party thinkers and National Country Party thinkers emerged clearly at the New South Wales Liberal Party conference last weekend. The conference expressed its support for a motion that the mining of uranium go ahead as quickly as possible. This motion was justified by the cold cash ethic that if Australia does not get its uranium out and sell it as quickly as possible it will miss out. As an after thought, a clause on safeguards was added from the floor. This shows the priority that the coalition parties give to safeguards! The coalition does not care about safeguards as long as the mining companies can get in for their cut and grab for the money as soon as possible. That is the morality of this Government and its supporters. 
For the reasons I have outlined the Opposition sees no reason to modify its stand. I remind honourable members opposite that the Australian Labor Party will not honour contracts to export uranium entered into by this Government. It is only recently that there has been an understanding that miners would have to be prepared to invest some $200m. We need to be given time to conduct a general debate on this issue. We need time for people to understand the real issues. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice on, 5 May 1977: 
1 ) What sum was spent by the previous Government on the Holsworthy area housing project in 1973-74 and 1974-75. 
What sum was allocated in the Budgets of 1975-76 and 1 976-77 for the Holsworthy project. 
How much of the allocation in 1975-76 was spent in that year. 
Was a lesser amount spent as a result of his Department's or the Government's actions. 
What works took place in the Holsworthy area in the years 1973, 1974 and 1975. 
What works have taken place in 1976. 
How many blocks of land have now been developed. 
What is the stage of development of all blocks of land on the site. 
When will blocks of land be leased or sold to the public. 
When will the project be completed. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development upon notice on 5 May 1 977: 
1 ) What is the total amount of funds allocated by the Federal Government to the New South Wales Government for expenditure in the Macarthur Growth Centre in 1 976-77. 
What was the size of the bid for the Centre at the time original or first estimates were forwarded to the Treasury in December 1975. 
How many revisions of the original bids did the Treasury or the Government require. 
Did the original bid amount to $55 million; if not, to what sum. 
Was this bid reduced to $29 million and then to $13 million in pre-Budget Cabinet negotiations; if not, what was the original bid reduced to on each occasion prior to final Cabinet consideration. 
What was the total value of firm contractual commitments entered into by the Macarthur Development Board (Sydney South West Sector Development Board) prior to 30 June 1976. 
What were the details of the works program submitted to the Ministerial Conference on 25 November 1976 and, in particular, what were the specific proposals for the (a) Regional Centre, (b) Minto Industrial Estate, (c) Minto District Centre, (d) Ingleburn Industrial Estate, (e) Camden Park Estate and (0 major roadworks in the area. 
8 ) If any of these specific projects received no funds in the suggested Works Program, what was the reason for its omission. 
How many jobs is it estimated would be created if the suggested works program was implemented. 
How many jobs is it estimated would have been created if the Federal Government had appropriated sufficient funds to meet existing contractual obligations. 
How many jobs is it estimated would have been created if the various bids referred to in parts (2) and (3) had been agreed to. 
As a result of the Federal Government's reduced financial commitment to Macarthur, how many landholders will suffer financial hardship because of the slowdown in the rate of land acquisition. 
13) Is the development of industrial estates for major private sector development proposals at Ingleburn, Minto and Macquarie being delayed because of insufficient funds for drainage works. 
Are future key development projects, in particular the technical college, the hospital extensions, and the Campbelltown regional shopping centres, in doubt due to the Federal Government's failure to make sufficient funds available to meet existing contractual commitments. 
As a result of the Federal Government's reduced financial commitment to Macarthur (a) has the financial ability of major private sector housing developments been jeopardised and, in particular, are the Ambervale development and the Eaglevale development suffering because of a slow-down in the provision of infrastructure services, transport facilities and road systems, and (b) has the New South Wales Housing Commission development at Claymore been delayed or impeded because of a slow-down in the provision of infrastructure services and road systems. 
-I ask the Treasurer whether his attention has been drawn to a report entitled  Recovery With Inflation  prepared by the United States Congress? Is he aware that this report showed that to take one percentage point off inflation over 3 years it would be necessary to add 1.2 percentage points to the unemployed? Applied to the Australian economy, would this mean that another 75 000 people would have to be thrown out of work to reduce inflation by one percentage point? Does this analysis show that the Government will only increase unemployment and deepen the recession if it continues with its misguided efforts to beat inflation the quick way by contracting the economy. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) How many permanent officers of the Australian Public Service have retired since 1 January 1976. 
How many of these officers came from each of (a) the First Division, (b) the various levels of the Second Division, (c) the various classes of the Third Division, and (d) the various grades of the Fourth Division. 
How many in each category in part (2) were (a) male and (b) female. 
How many in each category in part (2) retired on grounds of invalidity. 
Of those who retired on age grounds how many (a) retired at age 63 and ( b) opted to retire at an earlier age. 
Of those who retired on invalidity grounds, what were the more regularly occurring medical reasons for their invalidity, and are any of these considered to be an occupational health hazard. 
What are the comparative figures in respect of parts (2), (3), (4) and (5) for each of the calendar years 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. Does the steep drop in urban public transport payments to the States mean that the Government is encouraging the run-down in the urban public transport system which produced the Granville rail disaster? How can the Treasurer claim in his Budget Speech that one aim of raising petrol prices is to conserve the urban environment by reducing urban car usage when a 60 per cent decrease in funds will reduce the availability to the States of money to provide adequate public transport which is the alternative to car usage? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Will he indicate how, when and where the Federal Government has participated in the UNESCO/UNEP international program in environmental education. 
Does the Government intend to participate in the forthcoming inter-governmental conference which forms an essential part of this program; if not, why not. 
3 ) If so, who will be representing the Government. 
Can he say whether any of the several State governments will be participating in this conference; if so, which government. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government taken any action to encourage the development of environmental education in Australian schools; if not, why not. 
If so, what actions have been taken and, in particular, what emphasis has been placed on the development of appropriate curricula and educational resource materials and the development of pre-service and in-service education programs for teachers. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) What measures has the Government taken to evaluate the public awareness of environmental, urban and community development issues. 
What programs or plans exist to increase the awareness of the public of these issues. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
Did both the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation and the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate recommend that the Australian Government, in conjunction with the relevant State Authorities, provide financial assistance for the establishment of Environment ( Field ) Study Centres. 
If so, has his Department examined these recommendations. 
If his Department has done so, has it made recommendations to the Minister and the Government. 
What were these recommendations. 
If the Government does not propose to take action on these recommendations in the immediate future, will he state (a) the number and distribution of environment study centres in Australia, (b) the present level and source of staffing and funding for these centres, (c) the type of groups using the centres, including the level of use, and (d) the nature of the services and assistance offered by these centres. 
asked the Minister for Environment, 
Housing and Community Development, upon notice on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Did he, when he was the Minister responsible for the administration of the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975, receive the annual report of that Corporation in accordance with sub-section 48 ( 1 ) of the Act. 
If so, did he receive it from his predecessor, the present Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs who acted as Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development for several months, or did he receive it from the Corporation. 
If he received the report, on what date was it received. 
Did he comply with sub-section 48 (4) of the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975 and cause it to be laid before each House of Parliament within the prescribed 15 sitting days; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 6 August 1 977: 
Does the Government expect to achieve the United Nations target figure of 0.7 per cent of gross national product directed to official development assistance in its present term of office. 
If not, when does the Government anticipate that official development assistance will reach the target figure. 
-My remarks will be brief. I want to place on record my respect for Rex Connor's contribution to the Labor Government, which was the plan to ensure that the benefit from the development of Australia's vast mineral resources flowed to the Australian people. In doing this he challenged the power of the mining corporations and the wealthy financial institutions within this country and overseas. I repeat today what I said in the party room on the last day on which he was a member of the Labor Ministry: Rex Connor, more than any other member of the Labor Ministry, confronted the system, and for that he paid the price. Rex Connor served his electorate well. He served his class. We on this side are indeed proud of his contribution to the Labor movement. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech that the cost to revenue in 1 978-79 of the personal income tax changes will amount to $973m. Will the Treasurer give the House the assumptions, rubbery or otherwise, used in making these estimates? In particular, will he supply details of the rate of increase in the consumer price index in the year to March 1977 on which the half indexation will be based? Will this figure be discounted for increases in petrol prices? 
Further, will he provide details of the rate of increase in earnings in 1978-79, which are necessary to determine the level of taxable income in that year? 
I second the amendment moved by the Leader of my Party, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I want to concentrate my remarks in the early part of my speech to the policy of our Party. I want to begin by stating in the most positive terms what the policy of the Labor Party is on uranium mining and export. There must be no confusion on this issue. Our policy was adopted by the national conference of our Party held in Perth in July. It was accepted by a unaminous decision of the national conference. Let me spell out in some detail what this policy stated. The ALP has declared a moratorium on uranium mining, treatment and export for an indefinite period. The moratorium will end only when the Labor Party is satisfied that all the problems of mining, treatment and export of uranium have been solved. This moratorium will not be a short one. We insist that the moratorium will be an effective one. To this end we have declared that the Labor government will repudiate any commitment of a non-Labor government to the mining, processing or export of Australian uranium. We say that there will be no commitment of Australian uranium to the nuclear fuel cycle until our conditions are satisfied. We say that not a sod of earth shall be turned on any of the uranium sites until our conditions have been satisfied. 
We warn the uranium mining companies that if they go ahead they do so at their own risk. Already they know that they are facing higher costs for their investment because of the Labor Party's moratorium. When we are returned to government, as we will be returned, they stand to lose everything if our conditions are not satisfied. The next Labor government will be absolutely firm in applying the terms and conditions of our policy. Let there be no misunderstanding about this. If the uranium mining companies want to go ahead and jeopardise their capital, the risk falls completely on them. This decision is not a narrowly based one. This has to be clearly understood. It is the considered policy of a very broad range of opinion within the Labor Party. It was reached only after extensive consultation with the Labor Party branches and the Labor movement. There is solidarity behind the policy within the ALP and within the broad anti-uranium movement across the nation. 
Having made this clear, I want now to look at the specific terms of our policy. The Government has already breached one of the firm undertakings which we insisted upon. This is that no commitment of Australian uranium be made until a reasonable time has elapsed for a full public debate. This has not happened. The debate on the first and second Fox reports has been a shabby farce. That has to be clear. This whole business today has been a public relations matter. There has been no wide public debate on the issue in this arena. The Australian Labor Party has sought to stimulate debate. The Government has not. The mere passage of time is not a wide public debate. Not even the first condition of the Labor Party policy has been observed. For this reason alone we are against the decision which the Government announced today. 
I take our policy a step further and refer to another crucial condition. This is the endorsement of recommendation 6 of the Fox Report which states: 
A decision to mine and sell uranium should not be made unless the Commonwealth can at any time . . . immediately terminate these activities, permanently, indefinitely or for a specific period. 
This part of the policy is directed to the long term. It means that if Labor ever accepts that uranium mining and export can be undertaken with safety, any commitment on uranium is made on a conditional basis. In short, we would stop mining and exports if new problems emerged which were not resolved in the terms of our agreement. We see no evidence that the Government will act on this proviso despite the statement by the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony).  Accordingly, this policy is invalid for the second reason in the terms of the ALP policy. 
Further, our policy refers to the unresolved problems associated with the mining of uranium and the development of nuclear power. There are problems in many areas- economic, social, biological, genetic, environmental, technical and Aboriginal rights. In particular, we stress two vital problem areas. These are the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the increased risk of nuclear war and the dangers to human life and the environment of radioactive waste. There is nothing in any of the statements made today to indicate that these problems have been resolved. All the evidence is that the problems have become even more lethal. No effective safeguards have been found against proliferation. For example, the Government does not want to look at recommendation 3 of the First Fox Report which states: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the real serious hazard associated with the industry. 
Not only are we threatened by the spread of nuclear weapons with South Africa getting the bomb, but soon Egypt also will have it. Then Israel will have it. Then Pakistan will have it to counterbalance India. Iran and Iraq will have it. That is the madness of the spread of nuclear weapons. The decision today moves towards fuelling that fire. 
There is a wealth of evidence to show that proliferation has increased in recent years and that it will increase even further. Nor is there the slightest convincing sign that any effective way has been found to store nuclear waste. The statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that existing technology is adequate for the safe storage of high-level nuclear waste is completely false. There is no existing technology, just an act of faith. These proposals also show a complete misunderstanding of the basic proliferation problems. For example, the Minister for National Resources claims that stopping our uranium will contribute to the plutonium economy. This, again, is false. The reality is that by making our uranium available we will hasten the advent of fast breeder reactors. Plutonium fast breeder reactors need uranium fuel reactors for their fuel supply. By adding to world uranium supplies we will guarantee the advent of the next generation of fast breeder reactors. Every fast breeder needs at least five tonnes of plutonium for its core in order to begin power generation. 
Because there are no safeguards against proliferation and no safe ways of storing nuclear waste, Government policy fails to meet the third arm of the Labor Party's policy. The policy put to the House today fails on all three counts. Therefore, we cannot make any commitment to the world nuclear cycle and the final section of our policy must be applied. This does three things. It declares an indefinite moratorium on uranium mining and treatment. It declares that Labor will repudiate any commitment made by a non-Labor government to the mining, processing or export of Australian uranium. It declares that Labor will not permit the mining, processing or export of uranium under agreements which are contrary to ALP policy. This must be the effective policy of the Labor Party until these three conditions have been met. 
It is quite clear that in many ways the material which the Government has presented to the House today infringes many of the requirements of the Ranger report. Most notably, it rejects the requirement of the Second Fox Report for sequential development. The statements are completely unsatisfactory with regard to environmental safeguards. There is not the slightest doubt that uranium mining will destroy forever the unique environment of the Alligator River flood plains. It will bring development to the threshold of the Arnhem Land escarpment and the great Kakadu country which is a part of the world heritage. The flood plains and escarpment are complementary. Together they form a priceless treasure which should be preserved and protected at all costs. 
Honourable members should not have any illusions about what mining will do to this country. It will destroy and rape this country as it has raped other areas where it has been going on. If honourable members have any doubts they should look at the mining at Rum Jungle. Rum Jungle is a wasteland. Honourable members opposite should not think that they are easing their consciences by declaring this area a national park. All the mining area has been excluded from the national park boundaries, even Koongarra which the Prime Minister concedes is the most delicate environment of all. Ultimately, these areas will be included in some sort of a national park. But it will be a Bjelke-Petersen type park, a Queensland Government type of national park in which mining can continue. The greatest enemy of a national park is the mining interests and their growth mentality. 
If the safeguards to the environment are contemptible; the respect for the rights of Aborigines is beneath contempt. I was appalled when I went to Arnhem Land in June this year to find that the Government had made no attempt to convey the serious implications of the mining to the Aboriginal people of Arnhem Land. No Government Minister had gone to the area to try to outline to the Aboriginal people the policy it had in mind. After I publicised this fact the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  made a hasty visit to Oenpelli. It takes several years for Aboriginal people to consider issues of this magnitude. They have their customs and we should respect them. It is not a simple question of translating government policy into their language. It is my belief that the Aboriginal people of Arnhem Land have no real understanding of what will befall them once mining starts. A number of Aboriginal people were shown the bauxite mining at Gove. They were extremely frightened by the development. Gove is a paradise compared to what the Ranger and Jabiluka mines will do to the fringes of Arnhem Land. 
Already, commercial exploitation through the notorious Border Store has had a damaging effect on the people of Arnhem Land. Placing a township of 3,500 people on the border of 
Arnhem Land must disrupt and, perhaps, destroy forever the traditional life patterns of the Aboriginal people of that region. Development will threaten the sacred sites and the great cave art galleries. The Ranger mine will come right to the base of Mount Brockman which is the most important sacred site of the Arnhem Land Aborigines. The arguments relating to the environment and the welfare of the Aboriginal people are tremendously compelling. They cannot be put aside for narrow commercial considerations and the greed of honourable members opposite. 
It is a myth that the mining will bring extensive or enduring economic benefits to the Australian people. It will create only a handful of jobs. Vast capital investment is projected for these uranium mines. Yesterday in the House the Government gave the go ahead to the huge North West Shelf project, which will absorb tremendous investment. This can only mean that capital investment will be drained away from the building and construction industry, manufacturing industry and rural industry in the rest of Australia. The severe structural problems which face our economy will be worsened by a hasty rush into uranium development. Mining development is capital intensive and employs few workers. It will bring great wealth to a few privileged companies at a terrible cost to the rest of the economy. 
In summary, for all these reasons we reject the measures which the Government has outlined today. We reject the pitiful philosophy of short term greed which underlies those measures. We in the Labor Party concede that we have changed our stance on this vital issue since we were in government.  (Extension of time granted).  It is sometimes necessary to stand back and take a look at where one is going. We have been big enough to admit that we were on the wrong track and we have changed our policy with regard to uranium and have acted accordingly. We are proud of our policy and of the role of the Labor Party's re-assessment of its policy. I repeat that our policy is not a string of polite meaningless words. We say to the uranium miners that if they go ahead and sink $250m or so into uranium mining in defiance of Labor's policy they do so without a guarantee from the next government. 
I believe that today is a day which many people of Australia will regret. I do not believe the Australian people have been involved in this public debate. For nearly 2% hours we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and five of his Ministers make statements. Normally, if debate on each of the statements were undertaken separately, we would be allowed to speak for at least 15 minutes on each statement, but because debate on these statements has been made a cognate debate I have been allowed to speak for only a little over 15 minutes in my contribution on the six statements. If honourable members opposite say this is a wide public debate then there is a lack of understanding of parliamentary procedures. I believe it is necessary for the Australian people to understand this matter. For that reason I believe the Labor Party does give hope it does give people time to examine the policies and the reasons for not surging ahead with a policy of greed as the Government is doing. 
I regret that I have to use some of my valuable time to reply to the remarks made by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  who is a member of the National Country Party of Australia. It is well known that the National Country Party has sold out the farmers and now represents the great mining magnates and mining companies. This Government, through a National Country Party Minister, increased the price of petrol by Ilea gallon. This has meant a transfer from the people- including farmers who have to use their cars to transport them long distances- to these large companies a profit of $ 150m. That is what the National Country Party Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  has done. 
This Budget is the most class dictated document ever presented to the Australian Parliament. 
Not even in the 1930s did the conservative parties use all the weapons of fiscal policy to assert the interests of their class and the power elite which supports it. Never in the history of this nation have we seen such a class leader as the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  All the signs indicate that the Prime Minister is heading for the same fate as Stanley Bruce. 
In the past three years we have seen the Prime Minister manipulate the Constitution and the Parliament against his class enemies. Now he has turned all the resources of the national Budget against them. For this reason it is a mistake to look at the Budget as an exercise in economic management. 
It makes sense only as part of a political strategy of the conservative elite. It is in every way a deeply disturbing and divisive document. The deeply conservative nature of the Government's economic policy and its deeply entrenched class bias has earned it a poor reputation among the economic councils of the world. Even the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which is not an overly progressive body, has found the Australian Government Ministers and their Treasury officials highly reactionary in their policies. In the eyes of the OECD and other international economic agencies Australia stands well to the right of countries such as the United States of America and West Germany. 
Turning to the thrust of the Budget, there is no doubt that present level of economic activity demands a stimulus from fiscal policy. The level of unemployment in the work force is 5.4 per centthe highest since the last world Depression. Only 80 per cent of industrial capacity is being used. Gross non-farm product fell in the last half of 1976- 77. Interest rates remain high. There is total stagnation in the economy and very grave fears in the community about the economic future. This Budget will hasten the process of the community's disillusionment with the Government's ability to manage the economy and to generate economic activity. The Budget for 1977- 78 is another Budget the aim of which is to achieve a sharp contraction in economic activity. Its impact will be to deepen the recession. 
The Budget has two basic aims- to make a massive redistribution of income to the affluent and to suppress economic recovery in the vain belief that this will control inflation. The Government will fail on both counts. It will fail because income earners will see that its tax reforms are a shoddy deception- I stress the term 'shoddy deception'. It will fail because its fiscal policies will worsen the recession without reducing inflation. 
This Budget has one over-riding theme, namely the deliberate creation of greater unemployment. This theme is stamped on every page of the Budget Papers. The Budget Papers contain a wealth of evidence to support the conclusion that unemployment will increase very sharply in 1977-78. 1 give one example of that. On page 133 of Budget Paper No. 4 in the projections for payasyouearn tax in 1977-78 it is assumed that employment will rise by 0.75 per cent. This conflicts with the accepted bench mark for the natural growth of the work force of 2 per cent. On this assumption, we can expect an unemployment level 1.25 per cent higher in 1977-78 than at present. In short, we are looking at an unemployment level of about 6.6 per cent rather than 5.4 per cent. Using this yardstick, the Government is conceding that there will be at least- I stress 'at least'- another 70,000 people unemployed in 1977-78. Unemployment is concentrated very heavily among the young, women, migrant workers and, particularly, workers in the building and construction industry. These sectors warrant selective measures to create new jobs and to revive jobs which have been deferred or abandoned in the short term. 
The measures in the Budget for youth employment are not adequate to soak up the existing level of unemployment amongst those who are under 24 years of age. The Budget puts aside $18m for a special youth employment training scheme for the coming year. The subsidy is valued at $63 a week and is payable to employers for six months. The total cost is about $1,600 a person, the total amount allocated is barely enough to reach 11,250 of this target group or one-third of those who are eligible for this proposal. Undoubtedly this scheme will leave problems of chronic unemployment among the young. 
I have raised many times in this House the continued decline in the building and construction industry because of the economic policies of the Fraser Government. The rate of unemployment in the industry is higher than the national unemployment rate. More than 20,000 workers have been forced out of the industry during the 18 months that the coalition has been in power. This amounts to a 4 per cent decline in the labour force of the construction industry. It has occurred when the national labour force has increased by almost two per cent. The share of the total work force in the construction industry has fallen from 8.8 per cent at the end of 1975 to 8.2 per cent in May 1977. Estimates of the output for the total non-residential sector indicate a decline of about 4 per cent in 1976-77. The industry has been in a steady decline since the early 1970s. No industry can sustain a decline of this length without suffering grave damage to its permanent health. We are now faced with a building and construction industry which is showing the symptoms of a lasting malaise. 
Commonwealth controlled funds account for two-thirds of the public non-residential construction expenditure. If we look at this Budget we find that Commonwealth controlled funds which will flow to the building and construction industry have increased by no more than 5 per cent in money terms. In real terms it implies a fall of 6 to 7 per cent. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a table to this effect. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. The honourable member for Wentworth, in his resignation speech on Tuesday, denied the accuracy of a report in the  Canberra Times  on 16 August this year. Is the Prime Minister aware that his Press Secretary has asserted that he had the authority  to  guide the journalist who wrote that report in the  Canberra Times'!  Further, has the Prime Minister seen the report? Does he believe the report in the  Canberra Times  to be accurate? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer to Budget Statement No. 2 in which the Treasurer forecasts a June quarter increase in consumer prices of 2 per cent to  2½  per cent, which is equivalent to 8¼ per cent to 10½ per cent at annual rates. I ask the Treasurer: Following the logic of his statements, does this imply a full yearincrease for consumer prices of 1 1 per cent to 12 per cent and a first half year increase of 13 per cent to 15 per cent? Further, does the Treasurer agree that rates of increase in consumer prices of 13 per cent to 15 per cent in this half year would boost inflationary expectations rather than bring about their winding down, as claimed in Budget Statement No. 2? 
I join the party leaders in this House by placing on record my remarks about Leslie Haylen. He was an old warrior. He was one for whom we on this side of the House had great affection. It is ironic that Leslie Haylen died the day before the visit to this country of the Chinese delegation from the National People's Congress. China had an enormous influence on his lue. He first visited China just prior to the liberation of China in 1949. He again visited China after an invitation was sent from the People's Institute of Foreign Affairs to  Dr Evatt  in 1957 inviting a delegation of the Parliamentary Labor Party. Three people were chosen by the Australian Labor Party Caucus to visit China. They were Leslie Haylen, Percy Clarey and Charlie Griffiths. Leslie Haylen was elected leader of that delegation. On that occasion he met Chou En-lai and many of the other leaders of China. When he returned he wrote a book entitled  China Journey: The Republic Revisited.  When I was a young parliamentarian we discussed at great length the problems of the people of China and related them to the problems of the people in our own country. 
Leslie Haylen had a very wide field of interest. He was interested in the arts and literature. He was not a man of malice. He was a man with a light-hearted attitude who was respected on both sides of the House. Following Leslie Haylen 's defeat in 1963 1 was able to keep in close contact with him, both on the telephone and by visiting his home. Also, he was a great letter writer. When he agreed with what one said he would write a complimentary letter. Of course, at the same time, if he did not agree he would also let one know about that I say to Sylvia, his wife, and to Wayne , his son, that I am saddened at his passing. Regrettably I have not been able to know his other son. I know how proud he was of 
Wayne who gained a law degree and is now practising at the New South Wales Bar. I join with other honourable members in paying my respects to Leslie Haylen for the service he gave to the Parliament and to the nation. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. I refer him to the new tax averaging provisions for primary producers. Can a farmer with a 5-year average income of between $12,000 and $16,000 expect tax savings of no more than 10c for every dollar of income above the average? On the other hand, can a farmer with a 5 -year average income of between $16,000 and $20,000 expect tax savings in excess of 17c for every dollar of income above the average? Does the Treasurer agree that the new scheme is regressive and is weighted very strongly towards primary producers earning higher incomes? 
-This Bill is a measure of the Government's total failure to provide an adequate share of resources for local government in Australia. My later remarks will show just how badly local government is faring at the hands of Fraser's new federalism. First, I shall set out briefly the approach of the Australian Labor Party to local government, as outlined in the policies adopted at the National Conference in Perth. The main theme of our policy is the protection of the needs of the people who are served by local government. Eighty-five per cent of all Australians live in urban communities. The other 1 5 per cent live in rural communities of one sort or another. All these people depend directly on what local government provides for the wide range of services which determine the quality of their day-to-day lives. Their links with State and Federal governments are much less tangible. Australians depend on local government for their water and sewerage services, roads, urban public transport, and recreation and cultural facilities. Within Australian communities differences in the quality of these essential services show up very starkly. 
The standard of services provided by local government varies enormously from one local government body to another. Some shires and councils have built up sufficient revenues from a high rating base and are able to provide services of a very high order. Other councils lack the effective rating base and cannot provide proper services, or at best they provide services which are limited in scope. 
The Western Sectors of Sydney and Melbourne are prime examples of local government bodies which lack the resources to deliver services to all their people on a basis of equity. Surely it is the basic aim of the Commonwealth to provide assistance to local government which gives all Australians the same level of basic services no matter where they may reside. 
I shall talk briefly on the policies of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. In broad terms we tried to do three things in relation to local government. 
Firstly, we tried to give assistance to local government on the basis of equity. We felt that Commonwealth assistance should go to those councils and shires which were mostin need. We rejected the concept that Commonwealth assistance should be divided equally among all local government bodies. This approach was adopted by the Grants Commission with untied grants and interest free loans which the Labor Government provided to local government for the first time in its history. 
Our second aim was to inject human values into the conduct of government at the grass roots level which comes in contact with a wide section of the Australian community. The whole thrust of the work of the old Department of Urban and Regional Development was directed to this aim. Our people- I am talking about our public servantsgot out of Canberra and worked closely with State and local government representatives and community organisations and the people themselves at the grass roots level. They got to understand what it was all about. They got out into the field of urban and regional development where they always should have been. The only way to solve the problems of local government is for representatives of the Australian Government to become involved with people's problems and to understand them. Many honourable members opposite came into contact with the public servants who represented the Department of Urban and Regional Development as they came into contact with local government. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  was an alderman. He should understand clearly what the Department of Urban and Regional Development did. It made a new order for local government. It was properly recognised for the first time. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  was well aware of the role that the Department of Urban and Regional Development played in working with the Hunter Valley regional organisation. We in Canberra did not tell people in that organisation what they wanted. They told us what they wanted, because it was a grass roots organisation. This is what needs to be done. 
What is the situation under the present Government? These public servants now stick to their seats in Canberra. They do not interrelate with their State and local government colleagues. The Labor Government's policy was based on showing our faith in people and involving ourselves directly in their basic wants. The policy effort was based on co-operation between the three levels of government, with a fourth tier made up of community groups. Setting up this structure of policy making and delivery of services and facilities to urban and regional communities was one of the great achievements of the Labor Government. This basis of trust and co-operation between the three levels of government and between government and people has been destroyed by the Fraser Government. I say that advisedly. We cannot solve the problems of local government or urban and regional problems unless we get the three levels of government working together. Each level cannot live in a separate box on its own. They have to be interrelated. They have to understand the human problems involved. 
The Fraser Government has washed its hands of the basic community programs built up by the Labor Government. It has destroyed the Grants Commission. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  talked a great deal about the Grants Commission. He has a genuine respect for the Grants Commission. But the Fraser Government, of which he is a supporter, destroyed the real concept of the Grants Commission, its relationship with local government, the expertise built up during the period of Labor 
Government and its understanding of the problem. The Labor Government did not build up the Grants Commission from Federal bureaucrats in Canberra. We drew people from many sectorsuniversities, local government, the private sector and the State and Federal government sector, the wonderful body of skilled people built up in the Grants Commission has been gradually eroded. Now, it is just a skeleton of what it was formerly under the Labor Government. The Fraser Government also destroyed completely the area improvement program which was designed to provide basic services and facilities to local government bodies throughout Australia. We started slowly. We started with the area improvement program which was a regional council program. In the western suburbs of Sydney we amalgamated- when I say 'we' I mean in co-operation with the States - 
It is not a matter of making a slip. If the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs checked with any of his counterparts in the States and local government he would find that we did it together. The Department of Urban and Regional Development worked in a spirit of cooperation with State and local governments. I said when I was Minister for Urban and Regional Development, and I say it now in Opposition, that the only way the federal system will work is with a real spirit of co-operation between the Australian Government, State governments and local government, working together with community groups. We set up these regions in co-operation with the States. In most cases they were set up within State boundaries. We started off this Area Improvement Program by concentrating on the two most deprived regions in this country- the western region of Sydney and the western region of Melbourne. The program was so successful that it spread to 13 other regions. As the honourable member for Paterson knows, the Hunter Valley regional authority proved to be a very successful body. It gave strength to the program. We in the Whitlam Labor Government gave encouragement to that body which had been struggling for years. 
This program has been completely destroyed by the present Government. Labor's program was based on local government bodies and community groups deciding what services and facilities they needed. Even though it was a direct grant under section 96 of the Constitution, the people themselves were able to tell us what they needed and then we set about providing what they wanted. These programs would then be funded by the Commonwealth through the area improvement program and with the authority of the State government. In every case the projects provided for each area were decided on by the people who lived within that area. Again I stress to the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  that they told us what they wanted. It might have been a recreation hall, a park, a tree planting program, more drainage or the beautification of a harsh urban landscape. In every case the program was determined by what the people wanted. It grew from them. 
Let me give an example. Last Sunday I attended the opening of an urban park in the western region of Sydney in an area between Auburn and Granville. In the past half century Duck Creek has been polluted by industry. One of the wealthiest companies in this country- the Shell company- admitted a few years ago that each day from its oil refinery it emitted 35 tons of sulphur dioxide, 2 tons of alumina, and 50 gallons of crude oil filtered into Duck Creek. These wealthy industrial companies in the area polluted Duck Creek to such an extent that it caused a stench for the people in the surrounding area. A similar situation occurred in the Parramatta River. Under Labor's program we provided an urban plan in co-operation with the councils surrounding the Parramatta River. As Duck Creek runs into the Parramatta River which in turn runs into Sydney Harbour the interrelationship of the environment had to be understood. We were able to work together with these regional councils of Sydney for a better plan. Apart from our study of that waterway we were able to start to beautify the area. Under the area improvement program we were able to start to create the 25-acre park which was opened on Sunday by the New South Wales Governor. In that area there is now a beautiful ornamental Japanese garden. Rain forest is being introduced. Tree planting of all descriptions is being carried out and picnic grounds and recreational areas are being provided for the people who live in that deprived area. 
Something like $850,000 was contributed to this project through the area improvement program and the Regional Employment Development scheme. But when the Fraser Government came to office those funds were cut off completely. To complete the project the Auburn Council then made its own contribution. But even now that the park has been created it will be an enormous economic burden for the Auburn Council. We need to assist that Council. 
The Council alone should not have to be responsible for the park as it is for the region. The Australian Government should be participating in the cost of running and administering that park. 
The area improvement program strengthened the regions. Surely the honourable member for Paterson would testify to that. The regions where the program was applied are now littered with scores of unfinished programs. In some cases local government bodies have set a fine example by finishing those projects, and I gave the example of Duck Creek in the western suburbs of Sydney and the efforts of the Auburn Council. That this has been done is a tribute to the value of the projects and to the calibre of local government bodies who have battled on despite a lack of federal assistance. It is a grim reflection on the Fraser Government's new federalism which has denied much needed services and facilities to hundreds of thousands of Australians. 
The third point I wanted to make about Labor's programs before new federalism swept them away is the regional basis we built for them. It was our belief that services could best be delivered at the local level through a system of regionalism. Because individual councils and shires lacked resources it made sense for them to join together on a regional basis and approach State and Federal governments on that basis. Regionalism made much progress under the Labor Government and we gave it strong support and encouragement. We wanted to develop this concept of regionalism because we are anticentralist and we always have been in matters of urban and regional development. No matter how much honourable members opposite may scoff, the record of the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the ministry which I administered was basically anti-centralist, and everybody knows that. Now this basis of regional trust and co-operation has been destroyed by a government which has scrapped regional programs and removed regionalism from the considerations of the Grants Commission. For all these reasons we reject the philosophy which underlies the Fraser Government 's new federalism and we reject the philosophy which underlies this Bill. 
Turning to the provisions of the Bill, I reject the claim by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer that this Bill is of singular benefit to local government in this country. The Government has tried to create the illusion that local government is getting a better deal. Even on the basis used by the Minister it is clear that local government is not getting a better deal. In fact it is much worse off than it was under a Labor Government. This emerges quite clearly from a few simple comparisons. In 1975-76, the year of the last Labor Budget, the payments from the Commonwealth to local government were equivalent to about 3 per cent of net personal income tax collections in that year. This calculation includes general purpose assistance, direct payments and other payments through the States. It does not include payments for roads because the figures were not available. In the 1977-78 Budget payments to local government will account for only 1.6 per cent of estimated personal income tax collections after making allowance for Medibank. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which sets out in graphic terms how Commonwealth payments for local government authorities have fallen over the past 2 years. This table was taken from table 98 in Budget Paper No. 7. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Following the  -1714  per cent devaluation decision in November of last year the Prime Minister said on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM  of 30 November. 
Is there a man here who would say they would sooner put Australia into hock to the tune of $ 1,000m rather than devalue because that was the alternative offered to us by our official advisers. 
I ask: Is the current attempt by the Government to borrow more than $600m overseas an indication of a complete reversal of the policies implemented at the time of the November devaluation? 
-I direct to the Treasurer a question which refers to overseas borrowings. I ask him whether he recalls an answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Oxley in which he said: 
We have made it perfectly clear . . . that the Eurodollar loan of $250m will bie exceeded during the course of the year. The Press statement which I issued some weeks ago  made the point that we would have in mind a figure of around $600m or in excess of it. 
Does his answer imply that the loan ceiling has now moved from $250m to $600m? Is it a fact that these two separate loan programs total $850m? Was the Treasurer seeking to mislead the House? 
I second the amendment. I support the amendment because this States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill reduces in real terms the funds available to the States. 
It increases the States' borrowing costs. 
-It forces the States to reduce the services which they provide and/or to impose additional taxes and charges, which will lead to increased unemployment. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister Asssisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  tried to give the impression, when introducing this Bui, that it was a routine machinery measure. I believe this approach is wrong. This is an extremely important Bill because it gives the States their mam allocation for capital works programs each year. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Denison has kept up a constant barrage of interjections. I warn the honourable member that I shall name him if he interjects again. 
The level of capital works programs is one of the most important factors in determining the level of employment in the community. If spending on capital works falls, so too does the level of employment. 
By looking closely at this Bill we can get some measure of the impact on employment capital spending will have m the labour market over the next year. By looking closely at the aggregate figures contained in this Bill we can see the impact of the Fraser Government's new federalism on Commonwealth assistance to the States. If these funds and the funds raised for Loan Council programs are included, the Minister claims an overall increase of 14 per cent. The question arises as to why only untied funds should be considered in this calculation. Why not consider all funds, both tied and untied, which the Commonwealth Budget makes available to the States and local authorities? If we were to do this we would find that the rate of increase is only 11½ per cent. With an inflation rate of some 1 1 to 12 per cent this means no real increase in funds this year. 
The Minister has been highly selective in his use of figures. If we look at specific purpose payment figures we find an increase of less than 9 per cent, or a drop in real terms of 2 to 3 per cent. I have prepared a table which sets out how badly payments to the States have been eroded over the past two years. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709154_80_0.jpg"></graphic>

See 1977-78 Budget Paper No. 7, pages 4, 5 for adjustments. 
I thank the House. Fraser 's new federalism has imposed new responsibility on the States because Commonwealth support for the national sewerage program has been abolished completely, as the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  should be well aware. The area improvement program, which assisted his area in particular, has been completely eroded and the growth centre program expenditure has been drastically reduced. 
The result has been a marked increase in the States' responsibility, with no increase in capital funds being provided to meet that increased responsibility. The States and local authorities will receive only 37.4 per cent of the total Budget outlay for 1 977-78. In the last Labor Budget, that of 1975-76, the States received 38.7 per cent of the total Budget outlay. That means that their share has fallen by about 1.25 percentage points over a period of two years. That is a significant decrease and one which puts the new federalism into its proper perspective. The States and local authorities are receiving substantially less under the present Government than they did under the Labor Government. On the other hand, the Commonwealth's share has increased. That has been the end result of Fraser 's new federalism. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has achieved the reverse of his avowed policy. He has cut the total level of public sector spending, while at the same time he has redistributed funds from State and local government back to the Commonwealth. 
If we look at the broader implications of the Loan Council programs we see a similar result. The Government, time after time, has taken short term economic policy decisions without looking at the long term consequences. The Loan Council allocation to the State governments is yet another example of lack of foresight in drawing up economic policy. More than half of public spending on non-residential building and construction is funded through the Commonwealth Budget. Total capital outlays were cut by 7 per cent in this year's Budget, despite an increase of 5.7 per cent in Loan Council allocations to the States. Even when the allocations made under the gentlemen's agreement are taken into account, capital funds under Commonwealth control increased by only 5 per cent. That represents a decline in real terms of between 6 per cent and 7 per cent, because we must take into consideration that the inflation rate this year is 1 1 per cent to 12 per cent. 
This cutback in funds for building and construction comes at a time when the industry is in very grave circumstances indeed. Over the past 18 months the labour force of the building and construction industry has dropped by 4 per cent. In the same period the total labour force has increased by some 2 per cent. There are signs of a modest recovery in the private sector, but that will be absorbed by the drop in spending controlled by the Commonwealth. This will push the industry into deeper recession. More people in the industry will lose their jobs, and unemployment will increase. Such a decline in the capacity of the industry must limit the chances for medium term recovery. Unless it is countered there will be serious bottlenecks and cost pressures which will impair prospects for sustained recovery and control of inflation. 
It is in that context that the level of funding for the State Loan Council programs should be assessed. It emerges from an analysis of the figures that the funds for capital works available to the States from the Commonwealth have fallen in real terms by 4.8 per cent when compared with those made available under last year's Budget; and they have fallen in real terms by 13 per cent when compared with those made available under the last Labor Budget, that of 1975-76. To illustrate this clearly, I have set out a table which shows how funds for capital works have dwindled since the last Labor Budget. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 

<graphic href="106131197709154_81_0.jpg"></graphic>

Based on the implicit deflator for gross fixed public capital expenditure. 

 Source 1977-78 Budget Paper No. 7. 
-I thank the House. Furthermore, the cost of raising these funds has increased. This is due to the Government's cosmetic attempt to reduce the deficit. Last year we saw the shifting forward of hospital payments and the movement of Telecom Australia capital funds outside the Budget allocations as a cosmetic approach in order to reduce the Budget deficit. In this Budget repayments of loans by the Australian Wool Corporation have been deferred. As well, as that, the growth in Loan Council payments has been curtailed. The reduction in growth in those outlays in this Budget has been partly offset by increased growth in allocations under the gentlemen's agreement. State and local government authorities now get 35 per cent of their Commonwealth controlled capital funds under the gentlemen's agreement. The figure was about 30 per cent in 1976-77 and 25 per cent in the last Labor Budget, that of 1975-76. Again to make this clear to honourable members I have set out a table which shows this dramatic switch in the source of funds of State and local government bodies. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709154_81_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The interest rate on borrowings under the gentlemen's agreement is approximately 1 1 per cent. By comparison, capital funds provided through the Budget have a large grant component. That means that the effective interest rate on capital funds is no more than 7 per cent, and that is about the average situation. In plain terms, the Government is coercing the States out of a lower interest rate sphere into a higher interest rate sphere. Because of that shift in the source of funds, the States face a substantial increase in interest payments this year and in the years ahead. Those payments will be about $20m more in 1977-78 than they would have been if the money had been allocated as it was in the last Labor Budget. This is another effect on the States of Fraser 's new federalism. It has forced the States to move into a higher interest bracket in that they have to meet thenprogram commitments other than by Budget allocations. This, of course, is another gimmick, if I may use that term, under Fraser's new federalism. It means that the States have to meet substantially increased interest payments. That money has to be raised by means of increased taxes and charges for services. I might say that that is a further burden on the ordinary people. In turn it can have the effect only of increasing inflation and of imposing further burdens on people who depend on the services provided by State and local governments. 
The sewerage program which the Government scrapped is a prime example of that. Let us have a look at that situation. When we inherited the sewerage program in 1972 we found that 50 per cent of the people in Perth lived in unsewered homes; and one in every seven people in both Sydney and Melbourne lived in unsewered homes. In an effort to overcome the backlog in providing sewerage to these homes, we entered into an agreement under which we tried to carry out that program. It was a program which would cost an enormous amount of money. In the three years that we were in government we made available something like $200m to try to catch up on the sewerage backlog. In the last year of the Labor Government alone we made available $ 1 13m. What were the terms on which we made that money available? Of that money, 30 per cent was made available as an interest free nonrepayable grant and the other 70 per cent was made available at the long term bond rate and repayable over a period of about 40 years. 
What is the situation now? The situation is that the State governments and the semi-government authorities will have to go on to the loan market and will have to pay increased interest rates. 
Semi-government authorities have to pay an interest rate 0.5 per cent to 0.75 per cent higher than the long term Commonwealth bond rate. The best repayment terms they can get are 15 to 20 years and in some cases shorter term. What does that mean? It means that the taxpayers have to pay higher water rates. The increased costs pass not only to the individual but also to business. Business, in turn, passes them on in increased prices again creating further inflation. This Government by its new gimmickry of forcing semi-government authorities and State governments outside the Budget parameters is forcing up interest rates at a time when it says that it wants to reduce interest rates. 
Let us examine the debt burden of the sewerage authorities. In 1972 an enormous debt burden was being carried by the semi-government authorities. In Sydney the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board was paying 52c for every dollar it collected.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I think it would be fair, when the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  talks at the table for about 15 minutes of my speech, if something were said from the Chair. 
The Minister lives in a very exclusive suburb. He lives in an affluent area. He is a wealthy young man. He thinks only of wealth. He does not think of anybody. He does not think about the under-privileged people in the western, southern or south-western suburbs of Sydney. He really represents the privileged class. It is that class which Fraserism breeds. He is a young man who thinks he is going places. This is part of Fraser's new federalism. As I was saying, the debt burden on the metropolitan sewerage authorities in Sydney in 1972 was 52c for every dollar they collected. In Newcastle it was 53c in every dollar. In Perth it was about 53c in every dollar. In Melbourne it was 58c in every dollar. Yet in Melbourne the whole catchment area is in such a situation that it has been polluting Port Phillip Bay for many years. This is the great sadness about the sewerage backlog. If this sewerage backlog is to be cleared now it will be done at a much higher cost to the people. It will be inflationary and a burden on the great majority of the Australian people. 
It is extremely ironic that the Government has made a commitment to cutting the deficit to control inflation. It has done this in a cosmetic way by changing the capital funding arrangements and increasing interest payments. These increased payments have to be passed on and the inflation rate therefore increases. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! If the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations wants to carry on a conversation with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  he should at least shift to the front bench. The voices carry across to the microphone and it is not fair to the main spokesman for the Opposition. 
If we look more closely at the relative share of capital funds in each State we find other disturbing trends. Since the Labor Budget of 1975-76, specific purpose capital payments have fallen by 33.5 per cent in real terms. Loan Council payments have fallen by 1 1.5 per cent. Funds under the gentlemen's agreement have increased by 20.5 per cent. Some States are more dependent upon a particular source of capital funds than are others. As a consequence, the relative share of total capital funds going to the States has changed. For example, the less wealthy States of South Australia and Tasmania depend more on Loan Council funds than on gentlemen's agreement funds. I have set out a table which shows how the smaller States have been disadvantaged. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that the merchant banks are receiving daily requests for funds from the Australian subsidiaries of large foreign based corporations? Is he aware that the Australian subsidiaries are being instructed by their parent companies to transfer these funds out of Australia because of their lack of confidence in the Australian dollar? When will this Government put a stop to these private outflows of speculative capital? 
-I preface my question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, by referring to his electoral talk on 1 8 September in which he said: 
During our 2 1 months in office, the Government exercised the greatest possible restraint in its own spending. Because of this I believe we have now reached a responsible expenditure base. 
Does this statement mean that the Government is to increase government expenditure on such items as $20m for the beef industry and $100m for an unemployment relief scheme? Would such an increase in expenditure cause the deficit to increase? Would this be an indication of another reversal of government policy? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In reply to the honorable member for Blaxland, he said that our uranium will be used for peaceful purposes. I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the third recommendation of the first Fox report which states: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
Would the Prime Minister agree that our uranium could be used for the spread of nuclear weapons and that there are no known adequate safeguards available in the world against the spread of nuclear weapons? 
My question which is directed to the Prime Minister deals with nuclear waste. I accept the fact that there is a small reprocessing unit in France. Is the Prime Minister aware that in the United States of America at present 74 million gallons of liquid high-level waste exists, that the three commercial private sector reprocessing plants have closed down and that at present there are no plans for re-opening them because of the economic circumstances? Is he aware that, particularly in the United States, in the private sector the nuclear wast situation is a grave problem? 
I want to point up the desperate bind in which the Government now finds itself over its balance of payments policy. On the one hand the Government wants a lot of foreign capital and it wants it immediately; on the other hand it has chosen deliberate policies designed to create social and industrial tensions which are frightening foreign investors from investing in Australia. It has created for itself an insoluble dilemma. This means that the Government's long sought after recovery led by foreign investment and directed to the mining sector cannot occur. 
In the context of confrontation which it has built up, it cannot get stocks of long term private capital inflow. Thu is the crux of the Government's efforts to maintain a steady and viable exchange rate. 
In an attempt to support the present level of the exchange rate it has launched a large program of overseas borrowings. Only nine months ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  called borrowing $ 1 billion 'putting Australia in hoek'. Now he is moving to borrow around $1 billion overseas. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has admitted to the Parliament that the Government intends to borrow at least $850m. 
To get its recovery in the external sector the Government now is shoring up the exchange rate. This does not mean that the Fraser Government is happy to keep the exchange rate up where it is indefinitely. It is happy for the exchange rate to drift down over time. A steady downward drift in the dollar over the next couple of years is in line with one of the other arms of the Government's policy- its wages policy. The Government well knows that a declining exchange rate can be used to accelerate the fall in real wages. It knows that devaluation shifts resources away from workers and the industries in the domestic sector to a small group of large companies in the external sector. It is willing to let the value of the dollar drift downward to aid these companies. But for short term reasons it wants to demonstrate that the exchange rate is stable. 
At this moment the Government has a desperate need of a large volume of foreign capital inflow into this country. Try as it might, it cannot attract that capital inflow. The truth is that its policies are repelling capital inflow. It is caught in a trap of its own devising. It is even in trouble with the large Australian based companies- as well as with the foreign owned companies- that are running money out of the country and worsening the balance of payments. The Government tries to justify its failures by claiming that 'industrial disputes are keeping foreign investors away'. Yet industrial disputes are fewer now than at any other time since 1968. Most of the disputes which do occur flow directly from the Government's provocation. The Medibank strike and the industrial action to restore real wages and to preserve living standards are examples of industrial actions that are due to the aggressive anti-worker behaviour of the Fraser Government. Without Government provocation there would be even fewer disputes in this country. 
The Government also has sought to blame its failure with the balance of payments on the Opposition. It claims that attempts by members of the Opposition to wring the truth from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer at Question Time about foreign borrowings or other aspects of external policy create uncertainty in this country. The truth is that the socially irresponsible behaviour of this Government has created uncertainty and instability in Australia. Over the last few years, the conservative forces have turned Australia from a united society into a highly divisive one. 
Overseas suppliers of capital have seen a dramatic change in Australian society and they have lost confidence in Australia. There is a great deal of hesitation by overseas investors to invest in this country. This Government cannot even attract enough confidence and support for its policies from the big Australian based companies which are speculating and adding to the flow of money out of the country. How can the Government hope to win the goodwill of foreign investors if Australian based companies do not have any real confidence in this country? The only way that Australia can re-establish stable economic relationships with the rest of the world is for the Government to cease its disruptive tactics that it has been using for so long. This is essential if stability in Australia's external relationships is to be restored. 
The Government must stop the massive redistribution of resources away from workers and the public sector. This policy is based on confrontation which scares away overseas investors. The Fraser Government seems to thrive on the belief that its members have been born to rule, that the workers must be confronted, that there is a class division and that wealth should be distributed away from the great mass of people to the very few. It is following a policy of confrontation. By bolstering up the great mining institutions by way of Budget policies and taxation concessions, the Government is engaging in confrontation on a scale never known before. There has never been as rapid a transfer of resources in the history of this nation. The Government must stop the redistribution from the domestic sector where 90 per cent of people are employed to the external sector where only 10 per cent are employed. We know that this Government is a government representing very wealthy rnining companies. We know that those very wealthy rnining companies employ only a very small percentage of the Australian work force. Our exports of minerals have increased from 12 per cent to 28 per cent in the last 10 years. Yet we know that the wealthy mining companies employ only 1.5 per cent of the work force. The Government, particularly the National Country Party, has adopted a continuing policy of representing the very wealthy sector. The leaders of the National Country Party have sold out the people they represent. They now represent the big wealthy rnining corporations. 
The Government must stop the deliberate generation of social tensions in these times of economic recession. If the Government wants private capital inflow, it must drop its confrontation policy and adopt a more responsible approach to its economic and social policies. The Government will not be able to carry out its policies to attract foreign capital to this country and to bring about some stability in our balance of payments position unless it can provide some rational leadership. It seems to me that we are heading for grave problems in respect of the exchange rate. Unless the Government takes firm action against both large Australian based companies and subsidiaries of trans-national companies that are operating in this country at present to stop the huge transfer of funds that are going out of this country, enormous problems in respect of our balance of payments position will be created. In this respect, I need refer only to the speculation that is taking place because of the fear of devaluation. Of course, many people believe that the dollar is under valued. But the Government itself must take full responsibility for this uncertainty because of the policies it has been carrying out, particularly its confrontation policy. 
I oppose the censure motion moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  Instead, I believe that this House should be debating a motion seeking to congratulate the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  for his action to expose the policies of this Government not only prior to the November 1976 devaluation but also in respect of the present crisis. 
I wish to refer to an article which appeared in the London  Economist oT 24  September 1977. In the International Business Section, on page 95, the article, headed 'Fraser takes the muddle way', states: 
Currency speculators are encouraged both by the Fraser government's consistently poor timing on exchange-rate changes and its impressive record for caving in under pressure. 
This was the view of the London  Economist  of the Fraser Government's decision to devalue. 
For six months prior to the decision in November 1976 to devalue, the surplus in the trading account was in excess of $ 1,000m. In the six months following the devaluation of 17V4 per cent by the Fraser Government, our balance on trading account fell to $2 10m. Prior to devaluation our balance of trade was not falling. At that time our balance of trade had increased by $ 1,000m. 
At that time the foreign based companies as well as large Australian companies sent enormous amounts of money overseas. The Government did not take any action at all to stop that flow of money. It allowed speculators to make enormous profits from their activities. The Government knew what was going on. 
What is the situation now? In the past 18 weeks our international reserves have fallen. At 30 April, our international reserves stood at $3,780m. By 21 September, they stood at $2,468m. Therefore since 30 April our international reserves fell by more than $ 1,300m. This amount included a $222m overseas borrowing. So, the fall in our foreign reserves was more than $ 1 ,500m in a little more than four months. 
This is the way in which this Government manages the economy. The Government is responsible for the instability that has resulted in enormous amounts of reserves being withdrawn from this country. The nation is aware that foreign and Australian based companies, particularly subsidiaries of transnational companies, have been sending enormous amounts of money from this country. The Government has the power to stop such enormous sums of money leaving the country and could have taken action, thus avoiding the need to borrow large amounts of money. The situation was known on the Sydney and Melbourne money markets. The honourable member for Oxley said that, whether such matters are commented on by newspapers or mentioned in this Parliament, those speculators who are active in making a dollar for themselves are not concerned about the basis of our Australian sovereignty. They are the people who create the problem. They are the people who have been sending out the money. 
This Government is a government of big business. It represents the very powerful elements in our community. Therefore, it should have taken action to deal with that situation. Since it took power in a very dubious way, this Government has represented the powerful elite in this country.Not only has it transferred wealth from the workers' wage packet to the private sector but also it has cut back on public works and transferred this activity to the private sector. The private sector is only a very small section of the Australian community. Of the 200,000 companies in Australia, fewer than 400 companies earn more than 50 per cent of all company profits. We also know that these large corporations have profited greatly from devaluation of the Australian dollar. 
The whole strategy of this Government has been to base expansion on the level of foreign capital inflow. The Government seeks foreign capital inflow. It believes that recovery will result from a mining export boom. An enormous amount of foreign capital inflow is required to bring about that mining export boom. The Government adopted that broad strategy. But what has occurred in the mining sector has not resulted from any leadership by this Government. We have a leader of a kind that this country has never known before. He recognises a class system. He has polarised the Australian community to such an extent that foreign investors fear investing in this country. Long gone are the days when Australia had a stable government. This is a government of confrontation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  seeks to confront not only the trade union movement but also those sections of the community which dare to criticise him in any way. 
Even supporters of the Government are well aware why the Prime Minister wants to hold an early election. He knows that economic conditions will be worse this time next year. He knows also that his grasp on the leadership of his Party is shaky. Within the Government ranks and within the circles of Australia's financial institutions, people are saying quite clearly: 'We do not want this man who is a power unto himself; we want a concensus leader. We want a leader of the character of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  the quiet representative of the Establishment'. Malcolm Fraser will not be the leader of the Liberal Party in the future. We know that the leader will be Tony Street. Liberal Party supporters do not want a leader who will continue a policy of confrontation. That is another reason why an early election is desired by the Government. Honourable members opposite must understand that, while their leader adopts a policy of confrontation, foreign capital will not flow into this country and instability will continue in this country. 
Less than a year ago, the Prime Minister faced the problem whether he should put Australia into hock for $ 1,000m or should devalue the currency by 17Vi per cent. There was not a balance of payments problem in respect of the balance of trade prior to that date. The crisis was in relation to the capital account and not the balance of trade where there was a surplus of over $ 1 ,000m. The Prime Minister devalued our currency by 17'/i per cent. The situation now is that the Prime Minister has not borrowed just $ 1,000m; he has now borrowed some $2,000m. Prior to 1975, certainly a great deal of criticism was directed to proposals to use money from Arab sources. A great deal of the $2,000m that will come into this country derives from Swiss banks. That money, of course, is Arab dollars. So, the old sectarianism attitudes of the past apparently do not matter so much under this Liberal Government. 
The action by the honourable member for Denison in moving this censure motion against the honourable member for Oxley is shallow. We know that the Prime Minister believes that the whole basis of our economic management, particularly that under the honourable member for Oxley, was sound. This fact causes the Government concern. The credibility of the honourable member for Oxley is high. We know that the credibility of the Prime Minister is extremely low. Recently a national opinion poll was taken and it showed that the credibility of the Prime Minister was extremely low. The poll revealed that 36 per cent of the people were in favour of the work he is doing, whilst 59 per cent of the Australian people were dissatisfied with him. In regard to the honourable member for Oxley the situation was that 66 per cent of the people were in favour of the job he is doing, whilst 12 per cent were opposed to him. Therefore the credibility of the honourable member for Oxley is high within the electorate, much as government supporters may criticise him. The Prime Minister attacked the honourable member for Oxley personally three times in one day. The credibility of the Prime Minister is failing while that of the honourable member for Oxley is building up. 
I am not a person who treads any individual down, whether he is the honourable member for Oxley or the Prime Minister. I believe that in the end the only way in which we can solve the problems of this nation is by adopting sound policies. The policies of the Opposition, are much sounder than those of the Government. Quite frankly, we gained a good deal of experience of government in the three years we were in office. We learnt much about economic management. We will work together as a team. We will look for stability because we believe that the Australian people are asking for it. One thing that this country does not have at present is stability. The Prime Minister and other honourable members on the Government side are seeking a polarisation of the Australian community. They seek confrontation. Never before in our history has there been such a transfer of resources from the very many to the few as has come about under this Government. 
Why is it that in the last 1 8 weeks, setting aside borrowings of $220m, our international reserves fell by more than $ 1,500m? That is the situation. Why is it at this time that this can happen to such an extent? We know that the Government can put up all the smokescreens it likes by attacking the honourable member for Oxley. Why haven't Government Ministers stood up in this debate today to level the criticism against the honourable member. Why is it that the Prime Minister makes his criticism of the honourable member for Oxley while on the hustings? For some reason or other, when we come into this House we do not see the Prime Minister or any of his Ministers standing up to support this censure motion. He leaves it to the back bench members to level this criticism. I do not want to get down to personalities, as the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  does. We know that his politics have been very low in the past. I think that he should be much more careful in making criticisms about any other honourable member. He is the last person in this House who should stand up and make remarks about any other honourable member. He should consider whether he should vote on a motion of censure such as this. He should recall the words: 'There but for the grace of God go I'. When we on this side of the House have the numbers he might find the situation reversed. 
Be that as it may, the real question is not one of personalities but one of policies. No individual can solve the problems that we have at present. I believe that our policies on this side of the House are much more rational, much more progressive and much more positive in respect of solving our present economic problems. We know that this debate, this attack on the economic spokesman for the Opposition, is a smokescreen. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Hodgman's)  be agreed to. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer him to a telegram that he has received from the Northern Lands Council protesting at works projected at the Ranger uranium mine site in the immediate future. I ask: Can the Prime Minister assure the House that no works will proceed at Ranger or at any other mine site until the national park has been proclaimed, all Aboriginal land rights questions have been settled and the recommendations of the second Ranger report have been fully implemented? 
-I preface my question, which I direct to the Prime Minister, by saying that this Government has often said that monetary policy would be conducted in a way to ensure adequate funds to sustain a recovery in the private sector. Is the Prime Minister aware that in 1976-77 money supply as measured by M3 increased by  lOVi  per cent while money gross domestic product rose by more than IS per cent, and that the latest figures for the 12 months to August show an annual increase in the money supply of only  iV*  per cent? In view of these facts, when will this 
Government stop the credit squeeze which is now a major factor in preventing economic recovery? 
-In speaking about the estimates of the Department of Foreign Affairs I shall concentrate my remarks upon East Timor. East Timor is a great human tragedy. We Australians owe much to the gallant people of East Timor but we have given little. All Australians have guilt on their hands through the lack of moral commitment by governments and by the Australian people. The  Toss  of life of the East Timorese people in support of freedom and in the support of our servicemen in the Second World War was enormous. We in the Australian Labor Party have examined our position. We have a solidarity with the East Timorese people in their struggle for freedom against the oppressive Indonesian forces. In particular we nave noted the establishment of the democratic republic of East Timor. We have called for the withdrawal of Indonesian troops from that country and for the free act of self-determination by the East Timorese people. We have made it clear that the next Australian Labor Party Government will discontinue all military aid to Indonesia until all its military forces are withdrawn from East Timor. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the Labor Party's national conference policy on East Timor which was determined in Perth in July of this year. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I thank the House. The Fraser Government is playing a devious role in its approach to the Indonesian military invasion of East Timor. In saying that I stress that I am aware that there are honourable members who support the Government and who also are gravely concerned about aspects of Indonesia's invasion of East Timor. The Fraser Government has opposed the proposal that there should be a Senate select committee of inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the invasion of East Timor and of the atrocities which were committed during the invasion of that country. The Government has given and still continues to give military aid to Indonesia. It has gone along with Indonesia's refusal to allow the International Red Cross into East Timor. It has supported Indonesia's decision to channel aid through the Indonesian Red Cross which is a notoriously partisan body. This means that the Government has violated one of the four policies laid down by the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock. 
The Government has abstained from the United Nations resolution condemning the Indonesian invasion of East Timor which was passed at the last United Nations General Assembly in 1976. As well the Government has acted in an extremely harsh way to harass the East Timorese independence movement in this country. Fretilin bank accounts in Australia have been frozen. Its supporters in Australia have been subjected to indignities. Strenuous efforts have been made to close the radio link between the patriots in East Timor and those in Australia who are giving them support. I recall how at a vital stage in his efforts at mediation Winspeare Guicciardi, the United Nations' envoy, was denied radio contact with the East Timorese people when this Government closed the radio link near Darwin. The Government frustrated legitimate United Nations attempts to intervene in the Timorese question. It is no fault of this Government that the East Timorese people have not been cut off completely from outside support. 
In total, the Australian Government has built up a sorry record of complicity with the extremist elements of the Jakarta Government which are trying to suppress the right of the people of East Timor to determine their own affairs. I stress that these are the extremist elements in the Jakarta Government. This complicity shows up most clearly in our record at the United Nations. In 1974 in the General Assembly a resolution was carried which welcomed Portugal's acceptance of the principle of self-determination and independence for its colonial territories. The same text was put to the General Assembly in 1975. After the Indonesian invasion a stronger resolution was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly condemning the Indonesian invasion of East Timor. It called on Indonesia to withdraw its armed forces from East Timor to enable the people of the Territory freely to exercise their right to self-determination and independence. At that time Australia supported the resolution. 
On 1 December 1976 Australia abstained from a similar resolution which censured Indonesia for not observing the previous United Nations resolution. This act represented the final betrayal. I stress that is as the final betrayal. The East Timor question should not be settled by force of arms. Our act at the United Nations was a collaboration- I stress the word- with the Indonesians. It was a betrayal of our ability to influence other nations which looked to Australia as a country which could be depended upon for a reliable lead in matters in our region. It created a powerful impetus which influenced Singapore and Papua New Guinea also to ignore Indonesian aggression in that small country. Another vote will be taken in the General Assembly of the United Nations during this present session. The question is: What will be the Australian Government's attitude to the General Assembly's resolution on this occasion? Will it be a further betrayal of the people of East Timor? The question of complicity with Indonesia emerges also in the cover up of the facts behind the murder of the Australian journalists in Balibo in 1975. The 1976 annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs stated: 
Throughout 1976, the Government took all possible steps to pursue its inquiries into the deaths of the five Australian newsmen in 1975 at Balibo in East Timor. It proved impossible, however, to draw, from the mass of evidence collected, any reliable conclusions about how the newsmen had met their deaths. 
I stress that that is false; it is not true. I must say that I have been concerned for some time about the role of the Foreign Affairs Department in this whole business of East Timor and the role that it played in the Indonesia-Timor conflict. Reliable conclusions can be drawn about how the newsmen met their deaths. A Government back bencher has named the leader of the Indonesian killers. An officer of this Parliament,  Mr James  Dunn, has prepared a comprehensive account of the whole history of the Timor situation. That account contains a detailed and dispassionate description of what happened to the journalists. We must conclude that the Australian Government has a callous disregard for how those Australians died. The view it takes is that it does not want to hurt our 'good relations'- I use inverted commas- with Indonesia. It does not want to take the responsibility for the cold-blooded slaughter of Australian citizens. It has made no protest at Indonesia's refusal to let Australian parliamentarians into East Timor, even though the move came from its own ranks, its own supporters. That in itself was plain recognition by the Fraser Government of Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor. It also showed that the Government was bent on concealing the facts about East Timor from the Australian people. 
I stress that we are not opposed to the Indonesian people; we have warm feelings of freindship towards them. The Australian Labor Government and the Labor movement backed to the hilt the struggle of the Indonesian people for freedom from colonialism. In the same way we now support the struggle of the East Timorese to establish their independence as a nation. To summarise, the Labor Party and the Labor movement generally have a firm policy on East Timor, and they will be applied strictly by the next Labor Government. The road to independence for the democratic Republic of East Timor will be long and hard. There will be setbacks. There will be reports of betrayals and defections. There is no doubt in my mind that the cause of the East Timorese is just. I believe that the people in this Parliament, the people of Australia and the Government should really support the commitment to self determination by the people of East Timor. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, by stating that the Prime Minister, in his electorate talk on 9 October, said: 
In the first quarter of 1977 Australian consumers were saving 12.S per cent of their pay cheque, while in the last quarter of 1974, they were saving more than 19 per cent of their money. 
I ask the Prime Minister how he reconciles the figure of 12.5 per cent with the figure of 14.1 per cent given in the Budget Papers for the first quarter of 1977. Further, does not this run down in the proportion of income being saved reflect the fact that under this Government after-tax income for an average family fell by 3.3 per cent in real terms in 1976-77 and that people were forced to draw on their savings to maintain their standard of living? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Bill, the essential purpose of which is to remove the anomaly in the present legislation. The Bill will allow the Government to acquire property in external territories on the same basis as it acquires property in domestic territories. The Opposition accepts the principle that wherever possible and where necessary the Commonwealth Government should acquire land which it uses for its own purposes. 
The Government wants to establish an animal quarantine station in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. We know there are problems with regard to land ownership in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. This amendment will allow the Government to acquire the land that it wants without impairing the rights of appeal of the Clunies Ross family. The Opposition supports the Bill without proposing any amendment. 
-Last week we read in the Press how Warri and Yatungka the last of the Mandjildjarra people of the Gibson Desert to live a truly nomadic life, were brought into Wiluna to live. That was a symbolic event. It marked the final act in the European conquest of Australia. It has been a conquest which has given nothing but agony to the native people of our continent. The benefits of civilisation for the Australian black people have been few. Their lot has been disease and degradation. They are disadvantaged today, as they have been disadvantaged since the Europeans came to Australia. Even today unemployment amongst blacks is running at 80 per cent. Less than two per cent of the blacks are educated to the senior secondary school level. Blacks suffer from the repression of our legal system even more directly than the working class people of Australia. Aboriginals comprise up to 80 per cent of all female prisoners and 30 per cent of all male prisoners in Western Australia. I am sure that the position is even worse in the Northern Territory or Queensland. 
The Fraser Government shows every day that it is not really concerned about the conditions of the black people in Australia. It has reduced spending on Aboriginal affairs in real terms when compared with the last Labor Budget. More important than the lack of money is the lack of control by the Aboriginal people of their own destiny. They are denied both their dignity and their rights. We have seen evidence of this in the last few days in relation to the Ranger uranium mine at Jabiru in the Northern Territory. This has been reported very thoroughly in the  Canberra Times  during the last few days. We have been aware of the background to what is happening at Ranger. 
I want to consider firstly the attitude of Aboriginal people at Oenpelli and Mudginberri who are directly affected by the uranium mining project. I have been to Oenpelli. I spent a week in the Alligator Rivers area recently. I have a little knowledge of what is happening there. Until recently, when I arrived there, no Minister of the Fraser Government had been to Oenpelli or to that region to talk to the Aboriginal people. It was only after I had been there that the Minister at the table, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  went there to talk to Aboriginal people about the mining in that region. The Aboriginal people will need a good deal of time to consider the question of whether mining should proceed. A decision cannot be forced on them. They must make their decision in their own time. 
There is no doubt that the uranium exploration has disturbed the Aboriginal people in the Alligator Rivers area. They are frightened. The Minister knows how frightened and concerned they are. Once 54 Aboriginal people lived at Jabiru. This number declined as the Aboriginals moved away as a result of the influx of whites associated with the Ranger mine. The whole outstation movement by the Aboriginals in the area is an attempt, through decentralised communities, to control their own lives free from outside interference. The Aboriginals are reacting against the sort of contact with the whites that can be seen at the Border Store in Arnhem Land. During our visit to the Alligator Rivers area we looked at the Border Store. I must say that it was a degrading experience. Every member who goes to that area would know that the same problem would be multiplied over and over again if the Ranger proposal proceeded in the way that honourable members opposite seem to be carrying on now in their rush to get the uranium out of the ground because they think they might lose sales eventually through changing technologies in the world. The scene at the Border Store was an example of why Aboriginals oppose uranium mining. 
The second Ranger report expressed its opposition in graphic terms. It stated: 
The evidence before us shows that the traditional owners of the Ranger site and the Northern Land Council (as now constituted) are opposed to the mining of uranium on that site. 
The Minister appeared on television and said that there were contrary quotes in the same report. No matter what he said, I am saying quite clearly - 
It is in the second report at page nine. It states what the Aboriginals think about it, not what the great white tribunal might think are their opinions. The Aboriginals oppose uranium mining for a number of reasons. It damages the ecosystem on which they will depend if they are to stay in the outstations. It disturbs the land which is sacred to their religion and to the Aboriginal people. There is no doubt that it will damage Aboriginal sacred sites. It will produce racial tensions and conflicts. It will lay the ground for alcohol abuse, because of the increased tensions and pressures on Aboriginals. It will erode Aboriginal societies through the sexual unions of white men and Aboriginal women which mining will bring to that region. It will increase the already high incidence of venereal disease. These results are not unique nor unexpected. The Ranger inquiry concluded at page 233: ... the rapid development of a European community within, or adjacent to, an Aboriginal traditional society has in the past always caused the breakdown of the traditional culture and the generation of intense social and psychological stresses . . . 
The Ranger commissioners concluded that there were no grounds for hoping that mining in the Alligator Rivers area would have a different impact. This is why the developments at Ranger this week are so disturbing. The Ranger joint venturers now propose to build a 'temporary' town site adjacent to the present township. They have indicated a firm intention to start straight away on the major construction work, including road extensions and a new dam. This violates- I stress the word 'violates'- the second Ranger report's recommendation that a regional centre be built to contain all the mine workers and to minimise their impact on the environment and the Aboriginals of the area. Other recommendations of the second Ranger report are violated by the proposed action of the Ranger companies. Recommendation No. 1 of chapter 12 of the second Ranger report, at page 328, states: 
That Aboriginal title should be granted, the national park established, and the necessary control mechanisms set up before- 
I stress these words- any substantial amount of construction work is done on the Ranger project or substantial numbers of people are brought into the area. 
That is quite clear. The work projected at the Ranger site is major work. It is not mere surveying or exploration. It is opposed in the strongest terms by the Northern Land Council. The Minister knows that. It is a clear breach of the recommendation I have quoted. The Fraser Government will violate the wishes of the Aboriginal people and transgress the recommendations of the second Ranger report if it does not prevent the preparatory work at the Ranger uranium site in the Northern Territory. It seems that the company is anxious to get this work done before the start of the impending wet season. 
The Northern Land Council has protested at what it regards as a flagrant violation of the Ranger report recommendations which the Government claims to have accepted. It has telegraphed the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I ask for permission to incorporate the text of that telegram in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I thank the Committee. There are strong grounds for suspecting that the Government has connived at a start to mining activity, against the wishes of the traditional land owners. I stress that the Minister should look at page 325, the first recommendation in the chapter on principal recommendations, which states that no part of the proposals should be varied unless- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Reserve Bank currently charges a hedging rate of 7 per cent on forward cover transactions? Did that rate fall by only 0.S per cent following the announcement by the Acting Treasurer that Australia was to borrow $ 1,700m from overseas to bolster Australia's reserves of foreign exchange? Is it a fact that the so-called grey market rates which apply to private deals through hedge brokers for invisibles and capital items are higher than the official rate? Does this hedging rate represent the amount by which the dollar is over valued and the risk associated with covering that over valued currency? 
-The housing of the Australian people has always been one of the great visions of the Labor Party. It is a vision which goes back to 1944 and the report of the Commonwealth Housing Commission. This report is one of the great documents of Australian politics. Its guiding light was Walter Bunning who went on to become a line architect after creating this report. Despite his fame as an architect there is no doubt in my mind that this report is his finest achievement. It is a warm and human document which based the problems of post-war housing firmly on the needs of people and communities. The vision of the Commonwealth Housing Commission report was centred on a massive public housing program but it also included much else. It developed a wide range of proposals for public transport, community development, public participation and land use control. It had all the planning controls that were necessary but in the end the restrictions on money for housing by the Menzies Government, the Holt Government and the McMahon Government did not allow the inter-related programs of urban and regional development to proceed. 
If these proposals had been adopted Australia would have had a full-scale urban and regional development program 20 years ago. It is a tragedy that the great vision was allowed to fade away. The Chifley Government was able to introduce only the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement before it was defeated in 1949. The conservative government which followed watered down the great welfare scheme and scrapped the other proposals designed to reinforce it. Urban and regional development was handed over to the private sector. The provision of welfare housing was thrust upon the States. The end result has been the gradual collapse of welfare housing and the serious plight of the housing industry which is revealed by an analysis of the measure before the House. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  would like us to believe that the Government is maintaining the level of spending on welfare housing. If we look carefully at the figures we find that this is not the case. Gross advances to the States have increased by a small amount in money terms. Increases in repayments of advances and interest payments more than absorb the small increases in gross advances. In 1977-78 gross advances to the States rose by $ 15m but the net funds which the States could use after meeting the debt service costs fell in money terms by $2m. In real terms this amounted to a cut of 1 1 1/2 per cent. I seek leave of the House to incorporate my first table in  Hansard. 
-The random, ad hoc nature of the Government's uranium policy emerges with crystal clarity from its policy for the Mary Kathleen uranium mine. The Government continues to sink more and more Commonwealth funds into Mary Kathleen. It is sinking money into a mine that does not make a profit and will never make a profit. The Government's so-called loans to Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd actually are grants because there is no prospect of repayment. Instead of making its recent grant to Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd of $9m, the Government would have been much better off giving each of the 300 workers at Mary Kathleen $30,000 severance pay and then closing the mine. At least this would have ended the process of government subsidies. It would have softened the impact of the unemployment which must come when the mine closes. 
In retrospect, it is clear that the Mary Kathleen mine should never have been reopened. At the time of the advent of the Labor Government late in 1972, Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd had contracts for the supply of about 4,800 tonnes of yellowcake, but Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd needed contracts for the remaining 2,000 to 3,000 tonnes of uranium in its reserves to have any chance of making the mine profitable. The Labor Government's decision that no new uranium contracts be approved until Australian 
Labor Party policy was formulated made the economics of the mine even more risky. Since the mine has reopened it has run into serious production problems- Its maintenance costs are very high, due to the deterioration of the equipment during the 10 years it was out of commission. Wrong assumptions about ore grades and quantities were made and wrong conclusions were drawn about the size of the pit. 
I refer the House to an article in the  National Times  of 18 September last in which the many problems of the mine are detailed. As a result of these mistakes Mary Kathleen is a very unprofitable mine. Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd is now losing money at the rate of $ 16m a year. It lost $8,378,000 in the first six months of this year. Based on the trading figures over the last six months, a conservative estimate would be that Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd would have to get $46 per lb of yellowcake to make the mine profitable. That is over $10 per lb more than the current world contract price for uranium. 
Currently the Mary Kathleen mine is producing at less than 50 per cent of capacity. In the June quarter it produced only 100 tonnes of yellowcake. It will not be able to meet the 1977 existing contract requirement of 948 tonnes. The ore reserves of Mary Kathleen Uranium have recently been downgraded by 10 per cent. In the  Australian Financial Review  of 6 October John Byrne revealed that the board of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd had warned its shareholders that there was little hope of a return on capital. That warning was given before the loss increased. The total investment of the Commonwealth Government now amounts to $ 16.4m, which includes $7.4m of the initial investment. The mine made a $12m loss in 1976. The loss will be greater this year, but recently Mary Kathleen Uranium secured a further $9m long term loan from the Fraser Government and an $ 1 1 m loan from Conzinc Riotinto. This follows a short-term loan earlier this year of $6m, $1.8m being from the Fraser Government. This action is rather surprising, seeing that Mary Kathleen has not made a profit and, in my opinion, will not make a profit in future. 
Why has there been a change in opinion about Mary Kathleen? Eighteen months ago the Fraser Government tried to sell the Atomic Energy Commission's 42 per cent equity in Mary Kathleen Uranium. Now it is giving to Mary Kathleen Uranium loans that cannot be repaid. It seems an astonishing turnabout. Obviously the attitude of Conzinc Riotinto is crucial. It seems determined to keep the mine open. It is too easy to say that CRA is concerned about its reputation in meeting existing contracts, particularly for Australian uranium. It would be easier, simpler and more profitable for CRA to meet its contracts through the mine of its parent company, Riotinto Zinc Corporation Ltd, at Rossing m Namibia, Africa. Conzinc Riotinto is keeping Mary Kathleen open to suit the political purposes of the Fraser Government. I want to stress and restress that opinion. 
The big question is whether in return CRA will be allowed to ignore the Fraser Government's policies on foreign equity in Australian enterprises. Will the price of CRA keeping the uneconomic Mary Kathleen mine going be approval to CRA to avoid the stated Fraser Government policy and to secure control of important Australian coal reserves? That is the question that this House and the Australian people should consider. Conzinc Riotinto knows that with the continuing world-wide cut-backs in the nuclear power industry, the real profits in the future will be from coal, not from uranium or nuclear power. Propping up Mary Kathleen is a small price to pay for CRA gaining privileged access to Australian coal deposits. The Fraser Government also has political motives for propping up Mary Kathleen. It wants to keep the pressure on the Labor movement. The Fraser Government hopes to use any industrial confrontation resulting from the shipment of uranium yellowcake as an excuse for calling an election. One only has to examine the front page of yesterday's  Australian  to know the Government's policy. That is where it leaks its stories. It coordinates its policy with that of the  Australian.  That is clearly defined. It hopes to overcome objections to the development of the Ranger mine by pointing to Mary Kathleen. 
The Industries Assistance Commission in its report, after examining the situation, wants to throw Australian manufacturing industries on the scrap heap and put the workers out of work because of supposed inefficiencies. Yet the Fraser Government deliberately keeps Mary Kathleen going for political purposes, even though it is inefficient. If anybody has any doubt about what I say, I ask the  Australian Financial Review  and any other of these so-called responsible newspapers which look at the question of inefficient manufacturing industries to turn their attention to the inefficiency of this uranium mine, this political mine, at Mary Kathleen. The $ 10.8m that the Government has, in effect, granted Mary Kathleen this year would provide 450 jobs if spent in the building and construction industry. The present policy promises the Mary Kathleen work force unemployment when the political purposes of CRA and the Fraser Government nave been served. 
Mary Kathleen is a political mine. It is economic idiocy. It has no useful purpose other than to serve the dubious political ends of the Fraser Government and the greed of CRA. The Australian people at large should know this. It is about time that the truth came out. I hope the speech I have made today will throw some light on the shabbiness and the collusion going on between the Australian Government and the foreign owned company Conzinc Riotinto of Australia. 
I direct a question to the Deputy Prime Minister. I refer him to the proposed uranium mining venture at Ranger. Can he indicate whether, under section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953, he has, by writing under his own hand, given the authority for carrying on, on behalf of the Commonwealth, all operations in relation to the Ranger venture? I further ask: If no authority has been given, on what legal basis can he justify the present activities of the Ranger joint venturers? 
My question, which is directed to the Deputy Prime Minister, relates to the production of uranium at Mary Kathleen. Honourable members know that the Government has invested about $ 1 lm in Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd which it will be unable to get back for the Australian taxpayers. Is the Minister aware that Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd has contracted to supply 4,800 tonnes of yellowcake by 1985? Is he aware also that Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd is operating at a production rate of only 400 tonnes a year, when its production target under its existing contracts this year is 948 tonnes? How will Mary Kathleen meet its existing contracts? Will the uranium be supplied from the existing stockpile at Lucas Heights or will the Government purchase the uranium overseas, as set out at page 64 of the Fox Commission report? 
-I direct my question to the Deputy Prime Minister. Is it a fact that in the last two years the Government and Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd have put $26m into the Mary Kathleen uranium mine; that within the last few weeks $20m has been sunk into that mine by 
Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd and the Government; and that of that amount the Government made $9m available none of which will ever be regained by the Government? Would it have been better to pay all the mine workers severance pay, which would have given them $30,000 each, in order to finish up this very uneconomic mine? 
-The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  should understand that the Government which he supports disbanded the road safety authority. It was to be located at Albury-Wodonga but the Government did not proceed with it, even though an all-party committee of this Parliament sat for a long time and even though its recommendations were accepted by the former Australian Labor Party Government. So it is not of much use the honourable member talking; he must make sure that his Government meets its commitments. 
The urban public transport policies of this Government have given rise to confusion and chaos. Its policies are self-defeating because they are riddled with contradictions. The funds provided in the Budget for urban public transport have fallen from $58.4m in 1976-77 to $5 lm this financial year. That is a drop of 13 per cent in money terms or a drop of 25 per cent in real terms. This has occurred at a time when road expenditure has increased by 10% per cent. It is an appalling record for a government with a selfproclaimed interest in public transport. This Government is encouraging a run down in the urban public transport system of the kind which produced the Granville train disaster. I stress that I am not only talking about the two years since 1975; I am talking also about the neglect by conservative governments between 1950 and 1972. The situation with Australia's railways at present is disastrous. The plant, equipment and rolling stock of our State railways are in urgent need of upgrading and re-equipping. For example, in New South Wales over 100 derailments occur each month. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table illustrating this point. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="107131197710191_57_0.jpg"></graphic>

From the figures we can see that 1 1 per cent of derailments are attributable to vandalism' or 'private companies'- factors which are utterly outside the control of the railway authorities. But the other 89 per cent of derailments reveal that equipment malfunction must be an important part of this problem. In the same eight months period as set out in the table, there was an average of 44.75 per month of what the New South Wales Government Railways define as 'irregularities'. These range from level crossing accidents to running through points. Most of them were minor, but some of these socalled irregularities could end in disasters such as the Granville disaster. These problems cannot be blamed on the New South Wales railway workers. They do a magnificant job considering the outworn and outmoded equipment they are forced to use. 
This situation of obsolete rolling stock and rundown lines and facilities in New South Wales is present to much the same degree in other States. These problems can be solved only by Federal Government funding. It is beyond the State governments' resources to upgrade their railway system. We need a sustained program of Federal-backed expenditure for the renewal of our rail and other urban public transport networks. The railways have been placed m a crippling financial position over the years. Unlike road expenditure, which is funded through interest free grants, the railways on the whole have had to resort to loan funds to finance capital expenditure. This means that there has been a heavy subsidy element over the years for roads. Railways in Australia were faced with a deficit on their operations in excess of $500m in 1975-76. More than $ 130m of this deficit was for debt servicing charges. In both New South Wales and Queensland these charges exceeded $50m in 1975-76. 
Our public transport systems have been placed in a financial straitjacket. This appalling situation has to be corrected. At least the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975 tried to meet this situation. But this Government's lack of commitment to funding urban public transport does nothing to solve the problem and can only make it worse. We are now faced with a situation where only 4V4 per cent of public capital investment is on railways. This compares with 5V4 per cent in the second half of the 1 960s. 
This cut back in funds for public transport has come at a time when this Government has just increased petrol prices by 1 lc a gallon. One of the supposed aims of raising petrol prices was to conserve the urban environment by reducing urban car usage. Conserving the urban environment is what we are talking about. This great decision by this Government was an environmental decision. It was supposed to be a decision to minimise the use of the motor car within the cities. Yet this Government sees fit to cut back urban public transport funds which would provide public transport which is an alternative to car usage. What is the position? We have a National Country Party Minister responsible for national resources and a National Country Party Minister who is responsible for transport. What did they do? They made a decision to impose a levy of 1 lc on each gallon of petrol sold. What does this mean? It means $150m will be paid by car users in this country and handed over to the very wealthy companies. Of that amount $1 10m will go to Esso-BHP and $48m will go to Wapet. Six-sevenths of Wapet is foreign owned. Sixty per cent of the $150m is going to foreign interests. Yet in the Budget we reduced the expenditure on urban public transport. 
This was a measure which pandered to National Country Party supporters, namely, the foreign based rnining interests. It has done nothing to improve the quality of the urban environment. The fault of this Government has been to see transport as an end in itself, which of course it is not. What we have to do about urban public transport is to make sure not only that is there increased expenditure but also that there is increased expenditure on urban and regional development, because they go hand in hand. We should develop a system in such a way as to allow the sub-metropolitan centres to develop. 
For instance, in the city of Sydney we should make sure that we develop metropolitan centres like Parramatta, Liverpool, Penrith and Campbelltown to balance the transport load. In the case of Melbourne, when we were in government we worked in co-operation with the Victorian Government to set up sub-metropolitan centres at places like Sunshine, Dandenong, Watsonia, Epping and Broadmeadows and to transfer our public servants to those areas so that at least we would bring some balance to the transport load. Transport cannot be an end in itself. This is what has happened under this Government. We have a Minister for Transport in the Cabinet. The Minister responsible for overall planning is one of the junior Ministers in this Government. That is the low priority which this Government attaches to the planning of urban and. regional development as a whole. Transport and urban and regional development go hand in hand and must be treated in that fashion if we want better public transport. Unfortunately, this Government has no real interest in urban public transport in any shape or form. 
Progress reported. 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Did a delegation of the most senior Papua New Guinea departmental heads visit Canberra recently for discussions about Australian aid to Papua New Guinea? Is it a fact that Australian officials of relatively junior rank represented Australia at the talks and that they were unwilling or unable to  discuss the  aid issue effectively? Did the Papua New Guinea delegation leave angry and frustrated by this snub? Further, I ask whether the Minister intends to make a statement to the House about a recent incident where a Joint Intelligence Organisation agent approached an Australian academic in Papua New Guinea to spy against that country? Will that officer be withdrawn from Papua New Guinea? Will the Minister investigate and take action on these incidents which have caused a further rupture in relations between Papua New Guinea and Australia? 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is the Treasurer aware that the money market rates on three-months money in countries such as the United States, Britain, Switzerland and Japan is currently in the range of2½ per cent to6¼ per cent and that the equivalent rate in Australia is in excess of 9 per cent? Is it a fact that, despite these attractive interest rates being offered in Australia, another $270m left the country in the three weeks since the Acting Treasurer announced a borrowing of $ 1,700m? I ask the Treasurer why funds do not flow from these countries to Australia to take advantage of the high interest rates offered in this country? 
I move: 
That the proposed expenditure for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development be reduced by $10. 
The Budget is a clear indication that the Government lacks any commitment to making Australian cities better places in which to live. The spending on programs in the broadly defined urban sector- which includes the interconnected functions of housing, sewerage, transport, urban land, water supply, the national estate and other essential community services- has been cut by 1 6 per cent in real terms from the levels of the 1976-77 Budget. The share of Budget outlays spent on the urban sector has fallen from almost  71h  per cent in the last Australian Labor Party Government's Budget to 5 per cent in this Budget In this Budget welfare housing payments to the States have been cut by  Vh  per cent in real terms. Environmental protection programs are down by 60 per cent. The sewerage and area improvement programs, both visionary urban programs of the Labor Government, have been completely abolished. After allowing for capitalised interest payments, the effective spending for growth centres and decentralisation is down 58 per cent on last year's spending. Land commission programs have been almost wiped out. 
The sad situation is that this Government has adopted a phoney approach in trying to overcome the serious problems that have grown up within urban communities. In all urban communities within Australia we find grave problems. We find on the local level the problems of increasing rates and taxes. Many of the problems are insoluble without the assistance of the national Government. The major pressure on cities occurs in Sydney and Melbourne. That is where enormous problems in providing services have occurred. Let us take as an example the urban wilderness that exists in the western suburbs of Sydney. The city of Sydney stretches for 35 miles to the west and for 35 miles to the southwest. In both those areas an enormous amount of money is needed, as well as being needed in other parts of the city and particularly in the inner suburbs, for urban rehabilitation. 
Let me deal with the western suburbs of Sydney. If we draw a line from north to south through Rookwood Cemetery, between my electorate and the electorate of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  we find that there are more people living west of that Une than actually live in Western Australia or South Australia. In that region there is not one large theatre in which a ballet or a symphony orchestra can perform. The lack of cultural facilities in that area is appalling. 
At least the Labor Government entered into an arrangement to create cultural centres, thus providing job opportunities for people in the western suburbs of Sydney. It was proposed to build a Commonwealth centre at Parramatta which would include two theatres and other cultural facilities so that at least the Commonwealth would be adding to the services of that area. Those plans were under way, but immediately upon coming to office, the present Government stopped them. We must do something about stopping the over-centralisation of our capital cities, particularly the central business districts of Sydney, Melbourne and the other capital cities. Even Perth and Brisbane are finding that their city centres are becoming over built. We must make sure that our metropolises are developed in a much more rational way. This can only be done by developing metropolitan centres, as we had proposed to do in Sydney and Melbourne. We had the agreement of both governments on this issue. In Sydney we intended to develop submetropolitan centres at Parramatta, Penrith, Liverpool and Cempbelltown. After long discussions with the State planning authorities in Victoria we had reached agreement on building centres in Melbourne at Sunshine, Broadmeadows, Epping- Watsonia and Dandenong. 
This would have achieved several things. Firstly, it would have enabled those people living on the fringes of the cities to find jobs- at least clerical jobs- with the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth would give the lead with the private sector being encouraged to follow at a later date. The Labor Government's attempts to assist the State governments to upgrade their urban public transport to make these centres viable were cut back drastically by the present Government. More than 50 per cent of people living on the fringes of cities, in places such as Campbelltown, work in or near the central business district of Sydney and they are travelling about 70 miles a day to and from work. By improving those centres not only would we provide cultural facilities but also we would provide job opportunities. We would also bring about a more efficient use of our transport services. Instead of everyone going one way in the morning and the other way at night we would have a more balanced load. It is disturbing that the Federal Government has withdrawn completely from trying to assist in this way. Its own government agencies could have done many things in this regard. 
In the few moments I have left I want to deal with housing and with the problem of the deposit gap faced by people trying to acquire their own homes in our major capital cities. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the deposit gap for five capital cities in Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="107131197710250_39_0.jpg"></graphic>

Based on house and land value less a 10% deposit. 
Average Weekly Earnings (seasonally adjusted) for the latest quarter in which the house and land prices are published. Assumes repayments at 25 per cent of income at an interest rate of 1 1 per cent for a 25 year loan. 
If one examines the table one notes that the average price for a house and land package in Sydney is$41,000 and in Melbourne it is about $36,000. Based on a 10 per cent deposit, the loan required in Sydney is $36,900 and the borrowing limit of a person on average weekly earnings is $21,500. That means that the deposit gap is $15,400. The proportion of average weekly earnings required to service such a loan is 172 per cent. I am assuming that repayments would be at 25 per cent of a person's income at an interest rate of 1 1 per cent for a 25-year loan. People trying to acquire homes in Sydney or Melbourne are in a desperate situation. The sad position is that, during its two years in office, the present Government has done nothing to alleviate that situation. In fact it is aggravating the situation. For that reason, I believe that this Government stands condemned for withdrawing from activity in the urban community and for not looking after the people who live in those communities. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for McMillan, is directed to the Treasurer. It is a fact that the Reserve Bank of Australia is meeting only one-fifth of orders lodged by brokers for the purchase of Commonwealth bonds? Does this action and the fact that only a conversion loan is to be offered in October mean that the Government is attempting to flood the economy with liquidity to force a cosmetic reduction in interest rates? Further, is the Treasurer aware that the rate of interest on 180-day bank bills is 9.65 per cent, that on 180-day treasury notes it is 8.84 per cent and that the three-quarter per cent spread is greater than the normal one-quarter to one-half per cent spread? I ask the Treasurer In view of the unattractive interest rates, what level of subscription to treasury notes is anticipated in the next three months? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Treasurer, by reminding him that on 20 September I drew attention to the fact that many Australian subsidiaries of trans-national companies were shifting assets out of this country because of the feared devaluation. Is the Treasurer aware that a large trans-national corporation, the Utah Development Co., declared dividends of $60m in the September quarter on earnings of $32m, a rate of 187 per cent? Were most of these dividends repatriated to the United States parent company without payment of withholding tax in Australia? Have the actions of large trans-nationals such as Utah contributed to the outflow of $635m from Australia in the last five weeks? Has the outflow continued despite an addition of $8 16m to international reserves through official overseas borrowings and a gold revaluation during this period? 
-The whole of Australia is aware of last weekend's great rallies against uranium mining in Australia. They also know the fate of the anti-uranium rally in Queensland. The key factor that made the Brisbane rally different from rallies everywhere else in Australia was the so-called law that is the work of one man, the Premier of Queensland. 
It is important that all people of goodwill and especially those in Queensland reflect upon what is now happening in that State. We must all weigh the consequences of ignoring the Queensland Premier's abuse ofhis powers to make laws. I recall the words of Martin Luther King in his letter to his fellow clergymen who questioned whether his action of demonstrating in Birmingham against an unjust law was unwise and untimely'. He said in part: 
I am cognizant of the inter-relatedness of all communities and States. I cannot sit idly by in Atlanta and not be concerned about what happens in Birmingham. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. 
Throughout history there have always been courageous people who have been prepared to oppose unjust laws- Socrates, Spartacus, Christ, Mahatma Ghandi, Pastor Niemoller in Hitler's Germany, and Martin Luther King, to name a few. We must draw on the same dedication to freedom today to resist the growth of oppression and abuse of power in our community. 
I am deeply concerned about what has happened to the Queensland citizens who rallied to oppose uranium mining. People who oppose uranium mining and export are people of peace and of community. They are people who can see the dangers to their society and mankind that are the consequences of fuelling the nuclear industry and nuclear war. I am especially concerned about the arrest and detention of over 400 people because they were trying to do what every citizen in every other State and Territory of Australia has a right to do. On Saturday, tens of thousands of people outside Queensland exercised that right without incident. The people in Queensland were denied that right. In Queensland last weekend the people had two reasons to make a public protest. One was the uranium issue; the other was their loss of freedom. They rallied to oppose an unjust law. They rallied in the defence of freedom not only for themselves but for us all. I say 'us all' because I am very much concerned that the leadership of this present Government will move down the same path as the Premier of Queensland. They will follow the trail that he has set. Once the first step is taken it is hard to stop; it is hard to turn back. The same erosion of established rights that is occurring in Queensland is going on in a more subtle way right across the nation. We cannot ignore what is happening in Queensland because, as Martin Luther King spelt out to us, injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 12.45 p.m., in accordance with Standing Order 106 the debate is interrupted. I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the deficit for this financial year is now estimated to be in excess of $2, 500m, which amounts to an increase of $300m over the figure presented in the Budget? Does this mean that the Government has reversed its policy on reducing the deficit to control inflation? Further, how does the Treasurer reconcile a lowering of interest rates with a need to finance the increase in the size of the deficit? 
-Yes, by both the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in that order. I made no outburst and I made no attack on the British workers. I made a clear, reasoned statement based on Labor Party policy. Copies of that statement are available in my office to any honourable member. I have made no statement other than the letter to the  Sydney Morning Herald  which was published this morning. My letter was concerned for British workers and 
Australian workers. It was made in support of the human race. It was not based on greed or the expansion of nuclear war, as is the Government 's uranium policy. 
I refer the Prime Minister to discussions on the question of nuclear safeguards that the Government is having with the British Government. I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government is aware that the British Government and other Western European governments secretly supplied uranium for the nuclear weapons program of Israel. I further ask whether the Government is satisfied that international nuclear weapons proliferation controls are adequate. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Has he at anytime since assuming administrative responsibility for the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975 and subsequently the Defence Service Homes Amendment Act 1976 received the first annual report of the Australian Housing Corporation in accordance with sub-section 48 ( 1 ) of the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1 975. 
2 ) If so, did he receive the report from either of the Ministers previously responsible for administering that Act or did he receive it from the Corporation. 
If he did receive the report, on what date was it received. 
Did he comply with sub-section 48 (4) of the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975 and cause the annual report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within the prescribed 1 5 sitting days; if not, why not. 
When will he cause the report received from the then Corporation to be tabled before each House of the Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Did Commonwealth police raid the Canberra Post Office this morning and fingerprint all employees working there? If so, by whose direction was this done and why was it done? Is the Government using the Commonwealth Police Force to investigate an embarrassment to the Federal Secretariat of the Liberal Party? Does the Prime Minister concede that the Federal Treasurer of his party was making appeals for campaign funds at a time when he was denying that there would be a Federal election? 
-The nuclear debate is of extreme importance. It is one of the most important debates of our time because it deals with the whole future of mankind, the whole future of the human race. Therefore I make no apologies about the document that was passed through the post to my office. That document dealt with a three hour discussion between senior government officials and  Mr Justice  Fox. I made that document public. I did not select newspapers. I gave it a broad circulation among all members of the Press Gallery of Canberra. I sent it to concerned people throughout the nation. I sent it to conservation and community groups throughout the nation. I sent it to every one of my Labor parliamentary colleagues so they could make up their own minds about it. So that we can get it into  Hansard,  I seek leave to incorporate the whole document in  Hansard. 
We know that the Government will not allow it to be included in  Hansard.  I will make a couple of quotations from the document. When talking to officials,  Mr Justice  Fox said that in the United States he had found the Carter non-proliferation policy to be ambiguous and uncertain and that there were widely divergent views within the administration. He went on to say that the United States and Canadian policies were deeply resented in Western Europe, Brazil and Japan and that there was general opposition elsewhere to the proposition that there could be no reprocessing of American supplied material without consent of the United States. He went on to talk about the countries that were deeply disturbed about it. He referred to Egypt, Iran, Pakistan, India, Argentina and the Philippines, all of which in my view want to have their own nuclear power stations and do what they want with the by-products of those stations with no restrictions whatsoever including in some cases acquiring nuclear weapons. That is the real concern. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  say? He is reported as saying on  PM  last night: 
It, in fact, endorses the very thing the government has been saying. It is, of course, only one small document of a whole host of documents  . . 
In other words he was saying: 'This is right; we support it'. He was saying that the Government supports the utterances made in the report. I hope that he expresses that view to the upper echelons in Washington. He knows that diplomatic representatives of the United States and other countries of the western world in Canberra are greatly disturbed about this document of which the Foreign Minister says: 'We support it all the way'. 
The Foreign Minister again says by interjection: 'Indeed we do'. The report also states that  Mr Justice  Fox said there was concern about the ability of the International Atomic Energy Agency to administer the safeguards satisfactorily. 
In the few moments I have, I want to deal with the so-called energy crisis and the safeguards proposals, and I want to say a few words about Australian Labor Party policy. Let us look at the phoney approach of the Fraser Government to contracts with Britain and the phoney Fraser Government so-called nuclear safeguards. The nuclear safeguards policy which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm  Fraser) announced on 24 May has already been shot to pieces. To take one example, I refer to the eighth safeguard stated by the Prime Minister. It provides that in bilateral agreements between Australia and countries importing uranium the Australian government shall insist that any reprocessing of nuclear material supplied by Australia should take place only with the consent of the Australian Government. I ask the Government to think about that question and correlate what is said there with what is said in the document that I distributed to the Press yesterday. We know now that this safeguards policy is completely unacceptable to Japan. It is completely unacceptable to EURATOM. The Government can either drop those safeguards or write off any possible contracts with Japan or EURATOM or EURATOM countries. 
Much has been made in the past few days of possible contracts with the United Kingdom. Let us get at this question of the hypocrisy on the part of this Government. What has been said about the British Government spokesmen, particularly by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  is completely false and I nail it to the mast. The United Kingdom has no independent power to make contracts outside the EURATOM agreementand I stress that. What the Government has said in the past few days about its alleged negotiations with  Dr Mabon  is completely misleading and false. The United Kingdom cannot make bilateral agreements of this sort, and the Fraser Government knows it. 
Let me quickly look at the question of the energy crisis. It has been said that our uranium is needed for transport fuel. Now that is not true because the so-called 'energy crisis' is due to a potential shortage of liquid propellant fuel for transport services. There is not a shortage of fuel for electric power generation. There is enough coal for that for the next 100 to 200 years. Then there is the question of conservation. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries are beginning to reduce their energy consumption. In 1975 and 1976, OECD countries did not increase their consumption of energy. In part, this was due to the international economic recession, but it also reflects increased concern for conservation. Sweden and West Germany have already announced long term energy conservation programs. The Central Electricity Generating Board in Britain suffered a drop of 14 per cent in electricity sales last year. There have been no new orders to power stations, nuclear or otherwise, in the United Kingdom for at least five years and there are unlikely to be any for several years in the future. 
Let us look at the question of reduced nuclear power demand. Over the past decade official expectations of the contribution that nuclear energy will make to world energy consumption for the rest of this century have been moving steadily downwards. This process is gaining momentum. For example, at page 46 of the first Ranger report, using August 1976 figures, it is predicted that for the OECD countries, at least 400,000 megawatts of electricity would be nuclear generated by 1987. In January 1977 the OECD's  World Energy Outlook  gave a comparable projection of 325,000 megawatts of nuclear generated electricity in 1985. By early May, the official OECD figure had declined still further to 253,000 megawatts. I am told by OECD sources that the figure is now 224,000 megawatts. In other words, there has been a decline of 44 per cent in the projected 1985 levels of nuclear generated power in a period of less than one year. This decline in nuclear generated electricity projections must continue. 
I now turn to the Labor Party's policy which is not a 'leave it in the ground' policy. The Labor Party's policy is a policy which is concerned about the future of mankind. We are concerned about the many unresolved problems that now exist within the nuclear fuel cycle world. The first two paragraphs of the Labor Party's policy on uranium state that we recognise that the provision of Australian uranium to the world nuclear fuel cycle creates problems relevant to Australian sovereignty, the environment, the economic welfare of our people, and the rights and well-being of the Aboriginal people. Labor believes that, having regard to the present unresolved economic, social, biological, genetic, environmental and technical problems associated with the mining of uranium, the development of nuclear power should not continue at this stage. Therefore, we are clearly saying that that is the position. We want time until these matters are resolved. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I refer the Prime Minister to the claim made in the parliamentary debate yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the brief held by  Mr Justice  Fox, which I made public, corroborated the Government's policy. I ask the Prime Minister whether that is true. If so, does the Government share  Mr Justice  Fox's belief that the non-proliferation policy of  President  Carter and the Carter Administration would not succeed and was resented by Japan, major western European countries and many Third World states? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Did he state in a reply to a question without notice on 10 March 1977 that he had sent some of his staff to some of the more important public arenas to hear what is being said in the uranium debate. 
If so, were the staff referred to members of his personal staff or were they departmental staff. 
Who were these staff, and what positions do they hold. 
When and where were these debates held, and who organised them. 
What action had he taken to publicise the papers and views presented at these and other public debates either attended by staff or monitored by his Department. 
If he has taken no action, will he arrange for the information gained by his staff and the departmental monitoring system to be made available to further the debate and inform the public. 
I direct my question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I remind him of my question on 18 October last when I asked him whether he had given authority for the carrying on of operations at the Ranger project. In his reply he said that no approvals would be given until a series of discussions between the various bodies had been held. I ask the  Deputy  Prime Minister whether the Government is aware that the Ranger and Pancontinental mining projects are continuing their development? Is the Government aware that drilling is going on at both sites, that their camps have been extended and new ones have been built and that roads, particularly at the Pancontinental mining project, are being made indiscriminately through bush that is supposed to become part of the Kakuda National Park? Finally, I ask whether the fact that these unauthorised activities are occurring, contrary to the recommendations of the second Ranger Report, indicates that so called government supervision is in fact a farce? 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. I refer him to a statement which he made yesterday regarding borrowings of $200m in New York. Are these borrowings in addition to the $ 1,700m announced by the Acting Treasurer on 27 September, since they were not specifically referred to in that announcement? If so, were the borrowings prompted by the further run down of $7m to $8m in the level of Australia's reserves in the week ending 2 November? Why has the Treasurer found it necessary to devalue the dollar by 1.2 per cent since the Acting Treasurer announced the borrowing of $ 1,700m on 27 September? Does this mean that the Government is following a policy of devaluing the Australian dollar as well as, in the words of the Prime Minister last year, a policy 'of putting Australia into hock*? 
-Has the attention of the  Deputy  Prime Minister been drawn to threats in the last week by the Queensland Premier, first to the residents of Mount Isa and later repeated to the electors and residents of Mackay and Rockhampton, that their areas would be deprived of State funds if they did not vote for the National Party next Saturday? Can the  Deputy  Prime Minister assure those people that he will not allow Federal funding to Queensland to be interfered with by a Premier who intends to carry out those threats? 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to replace the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974. This Act referred only to land purchases and in 1976 it was amended to include all programs concerned with nature conservation. The present Bill extends the purpose of the amended Act to include all environmental programs. The Bill has very wide ramifications. It deals with all the Government's conservation and environmental programs. 
It is regrettable that environmental matters have been very low on this Government's priorities. I refer for example to the first report of the Australian Heritage Commission which was tabled in the Parliament today. This is one of the few programs in this area which have not been completely scrapped by the Fraser Government. The Australian Heritage Commission in fact was set up by the previous Government. However there is not much moral or financial support given to environmental and conservation programs. An example is the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974, which probably is one of the most important pieces of legislation ever introduced into this Parliament. It has wide ramifications. Two studies were undertaken under the terms of the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. One was the Fraser Island inquiry and the other, or course, was the Ranger inquiry into uranium. They had wide ramifications and it is very interesting to note that although both reports were brought down during the last two years, no proposal has been referred to the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act by the Fraser Government. This Government has moved back to the old bulldozer mentality. The Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair, both Country Party Ministers, have had an enormous influence in this area. The area represented by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development (Mr Newman)  probably has one of the Government's lowest priorities. That is regrettable. 
With regard to the mining of uranium, as I said earlier, both the first and second reports of the Ranger inquiry were brought down under the terms of the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development did not make all the recommendations; they were made by the Minister for National Resources. That brings the priorities of this Government into question. 
This Government is superficially concerned with environmental and human justice issues. I will deal briefly with the environmental aspects of uranium mining. The Alligator River region is a very delicate area of Australia. It is proposed that in due course-I hope that the area is not ruptured in the meantime- the Kakadu national park will be set up there. Recently I was in the area and I saw how beautiful, delicate, and fragile it is. The feelings and attitudes of the Aboriginal people also will be an extremely delicate situation to handle. The sad thing is that this Government is so superficial even with regard to the environmental proposals put forward by the Ranger inquiry. It has accepted the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act to control uranium mining in the Alligator River area and the Kakadu national park area. This Act will supersede the Ranger report. The Ranger report argued very strongly against using the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, both for environmental reasons and reasons associated with civil liberties. 
The operation of the Atomic Energy Act allows no other consideration. It does not allow environmental considerations to disturb its provisions. This means that environmental impact legislation is irrelevant and has no force on uranium mining in the Alligator River region. The Government has only a moral obligation, not a legal obligation, to recognise the environmental safeguards recommended in the second Ranger report. The Atomic Energy Act also overrides the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. Section 41 of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act requires, in effect, that m respect of Aboriginal land, a mining interest shall not be granted unless either both the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Northern Lands Council consent or the Governor-General declares that the national interest requires that the interest be granted. But because authority has been granted to Ranger under the Atomic Energy Act the 'mining interest' provisions of the Land Rights Act do not apply. I stress that point. Therefore the Northern Land Council consent will not be necessary in respect of the Ranger project even if it becomes Aboriginal land under the land rights claim. Therefore, Aborignals have no right over the Kakadu, the Mudginberri and the Munmarlary pastoral leases and the eventual disposal of these lands. 
This is of great significance environmentally in this area. Members of my staff last week visited Jabiluka and Jabiru areas to see what the situation was. They saw large areas covered with plastic sheeting which had been used for aerial surveys, and now there were rotten pieces blowing about the bush. There were grid tracks made by motor trucks all over the bush, cut through the bush yet this was an ecologically fragile area. These rnining tracks of savage erosion will occur during the wet season. This Government's concern for the environment is subordinate to its championing of the uranium miners rights. The Aboriginals, the people best fitted to protect our unique inheritance in the Arnhem Land escarpment, also have had their interests overridden. The environment is in fact subordinate to this Government's priorities. That is the whole issue. 
They are just a few comments on a sad situation that will occur under this Government on the priorities that do exist. There are other comments to be made on the environmental impact statements. There are comments in the report of the Australian Heritage Commission, which was tabled today, dealing with the "woodchip industry but this Government has shown hide concern about this aspect. It has been said that arrangements have been entered into between State governments and overseas concerns in respect of the wood chip industry, but we know that this Government has certain powers under the Customs Act which enable it to restrict the devastation which is being caused to our forests and protect the natural areas that are being raped in Australia today. The report of the Heritage Commission tabled today warns all Australians about the wood chip situation. It says: 
Australia is not rich in forested land. Since white settlement, the area of forest has been halved, and now occupies less than 6 per cent of the continent. In the earlier years of timber cutting, the forests were not viewed as a renewable resource. 
The sad situation of course is that just as people are raping our natural mineral resources today, our forest lands were raped in the past and of course this is still going on. The report of the Heritage Commission gives this warning: 
Since 1970 the export trade in wood-chips has called for more and more timber. Clear felling has denuded large areas of forest. 
One has only to go to Eden on the south coast of New South Wales to see how badly the region has been raped by the wood chip industry. The Australian Government will have to exert control if the State governments will not control this very delicate part of our environment. The report of the Heritage Commission continues. 
Many environmentalists do not object to the idea of 'tree farms' or to the preference for imported species of trees. They do object, however, to clear felling in environmentally sensitive lands. There also seem to be special opportunities for woodchip harvesting in the large areas of cleared, neglected land which are available for reafforestation. 
The State Forests have long been seen as 'landscaped national parks' which quietly serve a variety of needs. They serve the logging industry, people interested in wildlife, and tourists seeking grand scenery or satisfying their feeling for solitude. Unless very well managed the woodchip industry can wreck that traditional compromise. 
I think that is a warning. I hope that the Government will use the powers that it has over export to make sure that the State governments take some heed of this warning. Frankly, I am pleased that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKelllar)  in his second reading speech did stress that if we are going to control our environment the only way we can control it is by a spirit of co-operation. I think that cooperation has to occur between the Australian 
Government, State governments and local governments and even between governments and the private sector. We cannot go on as we did particularly between the years 1950 to 1972 in which the bulldozer mentality existed. In that time many of the beautiful buddings that were created by man were destroyed because of greed and stupidity and of course because of that bulldozer mentality. It was only after the Labor Government set up the Hope inquiry into the National Estate that there was any real change in the attitude to preserving some of our national heritage whether man-made or by nature. I think that this understanding that we have to work together if we want to preserve our national heritage is starting to grow in the community. 
The sad situation which has occurred is that although the National Estate program is now underway it needs financial support, it needs financial muscle. I am not saying that the Federal Government can produce everything from its Pandora's box to solve the financial problems of State and local governments, but many of these problems can be solved only if the Federal Government is prepared to give financial supportfinancial muscle- to back up the planning proposals. It has been said that whereas the abor Government in its three years in office spent in excess of some $ 1 5m, less than $ 1 m or at the very most $1.5m might have been spent in the last two years under the Liberal Government. That is the sad situation that has occurred. The Government, in saying that it has to wait until the national register is prepared, is simply postponing the matter. We know from the recommendations in the Hope report and from the reports and requests from the respective State governments that there is ample work available and so much that can be done and much of the work is labour intensive. I hope that the Federal Government will do more in the years ahead towards making a real contribution towards protecting our national heritage and protecting our National Estate, to ensure that the rare species are protected, whether they be flora or fauna. 
The whole basis of my criticism of this Bill is that on the environmental front and the conservation front this Government has such very low priorities. It has failed. Wherever the interests of growth or wealth appear to be, this Government sides with them just as it sided with the uranium mining interests in that very delicate area of the Alligator River in Arnhem Land. Instead of accepting the proposition, as reported, that there should be sequential development of uranium mining in the areas and that only the Ranger mine should go ahead first to ascertain what problems would be created in this delicate environmental area- that would have been bad enough- the Government rejected it. But what was done? The Government even cancelled the proposition of sequential development of the Ranger mine and the Pancontinental mine. The simultaneous development of those two mines not only will have a grave effect on that delicate environment but also will have a grave effect on the environment of the human beings in that area, that is, the Aboriginal people. That is the extremely sad situation. Therefore, whilst not opposing the Bill, the Opposition criticises and in some cases condemns the priority given to environmental and conservation matters of protecting our national heritage. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 25 October 1977: 
On how many houses within the following purchase price ranges was the homes savings grant paid during 1976-77: (a) Less than $14,000, (b) $14,000-$ 16,000, (c) $16,000-$18,000, (d) $18,O00-$2O,O00, (e) $20,000-$22,000, (f) $22,000-$24,000, (g) $24,000-$26,000, (h) $26,000-$28,000, (l) $28,000-$30,000, (j) $30,000-$32,000, (k) $32,000-$34,000, (1) $34,000-$36,000, (m) $36,000-538,000, (n) $38,000-$40,000, (o) greater than $40,000. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Commonwealth Employment Service offices covering the electoral divisions of (a) Franklin, (b) Denison, (c) Braddon, (d) Wilmot and (e) Bass at the end of (i) August 1975, (ii) August 1976 and (hi) August 1977. 
What percentage of those registered was (a) male, (b) female, (c) under 2 1 years of age and (d) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
-I will do that,  Mr Speaker. 
Is the Treasurer aware that figures released today show that dwelling commencements in the December quarter fell by 7,300, or 19 per cent below the level of the December quarter a year ago? In the light of this information, what measures is the Treasurer taking to ensure that the unusually severe seasonal tightness of liquidity expected in the coming months will not restrict the flow of funds for housing finance and further aggravate the recession in this industry? Does the Treasurer realise that the financial institutions cannot lend money if they do not have the money to lend because of the Government 's monetary policy? 
I want to express my deepest disgust at the Fraser Government's recognition of the military takeover of East Timor. I make this criticism at a time when the majority of nations in the United Nations are still opposed to the military takeover. What has happened in East Timor is a tragic affair in respect of which all Australians have guilt because of the barbaric things that we have allowed the Indonesian militarists to do to the East Timorese. I am not laying the blame only on the Government. The Whitlam Government was not without guilt and I certainly am not without guilt; so I am not trying to pass the buck. Knowing what we now know, certainly there was much that the Labor Government could have done, but at the time only certain Ministers knew what was going on. Now recognition of Indonesia's takeover of East Timor has been made official. 
We must recognise that the government in office at the time of the military invasion was the Fraser Government. We have to analyse the situation. We have to recognise the enormous oppression that has occurred in East Timor. I must say that when the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  took over the portfolio I thought he was a Minister of goodwill and a man who was concerned about these tragic affairs. However, the sad situation is that just as there was under the Labor Government there is under this Government a section within the Department of Foreign Affairs which has had an enormous influence on foreign policy in connection with the relationship between Australia and Indonesia, and it is about time elected governments started to run their foreign policy instead of allowing the bureaucrats to have so much influence. 
Sad to say, the man who is all things to all men, Foreign Minister Peacock, has succumbed to the pressure from his own bureaucrats and now has agreed to recognise the Indonesian takeover of East Timor. This is a tragic affair. The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about human relations at the United Nations only last year when he said: 
Australia takes its human rights seriously. Our election to the UN Human Rights Commission in May of this year gives us an additional reason for doing so. The question of human rights is too important a matter to be dealt with in terms of rhetoric and gesture; too important to be subordinated to political manoeuvre or made a matter of public relations. It is related in the most direct way to questions of human suffering, human dignity and freedom. If we cannot take it seriously, we would do better to stop talking about it at all. 
They are the words spoken by the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the United Nations last year. We know from the admissions of Indonesian representatives that between 80,000 and 100,000 people could have been butchered. The Australian Government recognises that position, notwithstanding that it spoke those words of hypocrisy at the United Nations. I again say to all in this Parliament that if the Labor Government made mistakes over East Timor- and it did- then we as a party have to recognise it, and we did so at our last National Conference. It is about time the back benchers opposite stood up to the Government or the Executive and made sure that it supports human rights. The East Timorese stood by us in the Second World War and we should now acknowledge their struggle in the defence of our servicemen at that time. Therefore I express my disgust and protest at this action of the Fraser Government. 
1 listened with interest to the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean).  I know how disenchanted he is with the Parliament. To some extent in this day and age that is a good thing, irrespective of the side of the House on which one sits. He seems to think that power lies in the Executive. If the honourable member ever became a member of the Executive he would be further disenchanted, because power does not lie even in the Executive. Power really lies in the corporate sector of this country; power really lies in the media of this country; power really lies in the bureaucracy of this country; and of course to some extent power lies in the Executive, but it is a very limited power. One of the reasons why the Executive, the Government, cannot solve the problem of unemployment is that it has neither the policies nor the real power to do it. I want to deal with the transfer of power which I believe is necessary if we are to solve the crucial problem of unemployment. 
We can see from the Governor-General's statement that the Australian people are to be subjected to another three years of cynical manipulation by the conservative forces whose representatives pack the Government benches. The Governor-General's Speech included pious statements about 'choice' and 'freedom'; about 'expanding job opportunities'; about the 'independence and self-respect' of the growing body of people now dependent on social security because the economic masters- both in government and in the corporate sector- cannot and will not operate the economy in a way that will provide jobs and preserve the living standards of the work force of this country. In the past two years alone the purchasing power of the work force, particularly those people on average weekly earnings, has dropped by at least $ 1 6 a week. Such pious statements cover only thinly the real intentions of the most cynically antipeople, anti-labour, anti-progressive government this country has known since Federation. 
While claiming to be interested in 'choice ' and 'freedom', this Government is deliberately going about creating greater and greater inequality between labour and capital and between strong and weak. While claiming to be interested in giving the individual 'greater control over his own resources', this Government is deliberately setting out to make sure that those people who can do an honest day's work as employees of someone else do not have left many resources over which to exercise control. While claiming to be interested in giving people a 'greater measure of power', this Government has taken up the task of making sure that the ordinary Australian people have less power-less economic power 
A  X  1 1 
and less political power- than they have ever had since the Great Depression. While claiming to be 'good economic managers', this Government is reorganising the basic structure of the Australian economy to favour those powerful interests that have great influence on its policies and its parties' finances. The $4m that helped to finance the Government's election campaign came from the corporate sector. The Government is reorganising the Australian economy to the serious disadvantage of the entire work force and to the serious disadvantage of large sections of its traditional supporters in the business and rural sectors- the small businessmen, small farmers and small managers. 
It is reorganising the Australian economy so as to reduce the public sector to a status from which it is unable to control effectively the anti-social, anti-worker and anti-national actions of the large corporations that now dominate the pattern of development of this country. The Government is reducing the public sector so that the people no longer will be able to obtain a reasonable 'social wage' in the form of public transport systems, urban renewal, regional development, housing, education, health, and welfare assistance for the disadvantaged and the unemployed. The hypocrisy of this Government is transparent. However, its tactics have been remarkably successful since it reorganised its forces in preparation for the onslaught to destabilise the Labor Government. The tactics have been successful to date. The propaganda machine has been working remarkably well, with invaluable assistance from the media owners in delivering the predetermined message to the Australian people. But the tactics are wearing thin. The hypocrisy is becoming more evident daily. The public suspicion of the sinister methods of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his cohorts is growing. The Government has failed in its efforts to find scapegoats in the trade union movement. It will fail in its current efforts to create greater divisions in Australian society between the different sections of the Australian work force, between men and women who work, between nationalities and between the old and the young. 
On the economic front the system is not delivering and cannot deliver the goods. Again I challenge honourable members opposite to deliver the goods, to wipe away unemployment. They will not do it in the next 10 years, let alone in the next three years. This Government especially cannot deliver the goods as far as employment is concerned. No matter how this Government fiddles the figures, unemployment is the issue that ultimately will defeat it. This Government will never solve the unemployment problem because the forces to which it pandersthe forces of the corporate sector and corporate capital, with a large representation of foreign and externally orientated capital- are the very forces that are causing Australia 's serious unemployment problem. At the present stage of development the decision makers who determine the overall pattern of economic activity, both internationally and in Australia, are concentrated in the large corporations that generally operate on a transnational basis; that is, their production is organised across national boundaries and their markets are international. There has been a massive growth in the internationalisation of production since the Second World War. By 1973 the United Nations Secretariat estimated that in the capitalist world international production was valued at $400 billion, well in excess of the total exports of $350 billion. That is, the total output of the subsidiaries of the transnational corporations, and excluding the vast amount of production that still takes place at the home base of transnational corporations, is very much greater than the entire export trade of all capitalist countries. This is an extremely important development to understand when trying to determine the basic causes of unemployment. It represents a fundamental structural change in economies like the Australian economy that are supposed to provide the jobs. 
The owners of capital are making decisions about production that are opposed to the interests of labour in all the developed national economies. The steady expansion in the industrial base that occurred for years- interrupted by depression and war and boosted by post-war reconstruction and consumerism- has stopped. This expansion once took up new labour; it provided jobs for young people. Now it does not. As the transnationals re-organise on a global scale they are concentrating their more labour intensive activities in isolated industrial estates in selected Third World countries. The countries are selected on political and strategic grounds. They are countries where the government of the day can generally control the populace and where effective trade unions have been defeated and in some cases crushed. They are countries which have their economies distorted, where production is not aimed at giving priority to meeting the needs of their own people and where first priority is given to producing for overseas markets. 
Of course, some people in Third World countries do get jobs. But it is unrealistic to believe that vast numbers of the Third World 's peoples can be employed in this way. Also, this pattern of development means that in the longer term the people of the Third World will not be able to control their own resources, their own production and their own destiny. There is not a simple trade-off of jobs between the workers of industrialised countries and the people of the Third World. Rather, the transnational corporations have decided on their pattern of production to the disadvantage of both sets of people- people in our type of economy and people in Third World countries. 
This re-organisation of production on a global scale has hit Australia in two ways. First, there is growing pressure to stop protecting the domestic industrial base. Australian-based companies, both Australian and foreign owned, are expanding overseas. The flow of foreign investment that Australia had come to depend on has dried up and has been diverted elsewhere. The industrial base is not expanding. The supply of new jobs has fallen off, for basic structural reasons. Secondly, and more significant for this country, Australia's role in the integrated international economy has been redefined. Australia is to concentrate on its 'international comparative advantage' as a supplier of raw materials to the industrial complexes overseas. Our mineral exports as a percentage of total exports increased during the late 1960s to the early 1970s from 12 percent to 28 per cent. But during that period the size of the mining work force diminished from 1.4 per cent to 1.2 per cent. This puts even greater pressure on the supply of new jobs. The mining industry nowadays is highly capital intensive. Much of the equipment it needs is imported. So the number of jobs, both direct and indirect, associated with it are few- far fewer than the number of jobs associated with the same level of investment in other industries. Also, export industries are notoriously low tax payers. We cannot expect the Government to get vast amounts of revenue to put into public services and create an expansion of the public sector work force to compensate for the loss of job opportunities in the private sector. 
Let me make it quite clear that I am not arguing for keeping the status quo, or for protecting industries as they now stand and stopping the development of Australia's mineral resources. Far from it. What I am arguing against is allowing the present dominant forces to restructure the Australian economy in a way that suits their interests and at great cost to the Australian people in terms of jobs and public revenues. I am arguing for the pace and form of development in set of decision makers representing the interests of all the Australian people. I add here that special weighting ought to be given to the wishes of the Aboriginal people. 
-The Minister says 'Hear, hear'. It is about time he did something to stand up for Aboriginals and to make sure that they have some say in their own destiny. Anyone who has seen mining activity on Aboriginal land knows the way in which these areas have been raped. One only has to go to Weipa to see the way in which mining companies have raped traditional Aboriginal land and the degeneration of the Aboriginal people. I think it is disgusting that any civilised nation should have acted in this way in the 1960s or 1970s. The Aboriginals are the ones who suffer in a special way at the hands of the mining companies. They are the ones who feel most when the land is ripped up for its mineral wealth. 
I would also argue that our industrial capacity should not be run down although the pattern of production should be changed. Our industrial structure is, or can be, an essential part of our control over our own economic destiny in a period of great instability in the international capitalist system. This is the old idea of having strategic industries for times when we cannot rely on anyone other than ourselves. Raw material markets are notoriously unstable and we cannot expect to rely on revenue from them to meet a big import bill. 
Unemployment, the associated repression of the Australian workers and their organisations and the unemployed and progressive forces are the issues that will lead to the defeat of the conservative forces of this country and their parliamentary representatives. The Government has no honest, correct analysis of the causes of unemployment. I again challenge any Government supporter to prove that is not the case. This Government has no solution to unemploymentat least no solution that does not place an unacceptable burden of adjustment on the people least able to cope with that burden. What is required are far-reaching policies of changeto combat the real causes of unemployment; to shift power over decisions about production from the present centre to a new centre that will gear production to meet a more just and social objective. As consciousness grows within the Labor movement and the Australian people about the consequences to them of decisions now been taken by the power elite, no amount of propaganda, manipulation or repression will be able to prevent this conservative coalition giving way to a more democratic, more just, more equitable and more independent and self-reliant society. To achieve this we have to make sure that we unite all forces against this conservative Government. As a first step to working towards our objective we have to make sure that a Labor government is returned. 
-This week a British Government inquiry recommended that a major nuclear fuel reprocessing plant should be built at Windscale. The Australian people and the Parliament should be quite clear about the implications of this recommendation and the circumstances surrounding it. Firstly, the decision of the inquiry was made primarily for commercial reasons. British Nuclear Fuels Ltd has acknowledged the decision as 'a complete vindication of our proposals '. These proposals, in fact, are based on an interest in $ 1,500m worth of nuclear fuel reprocessing contracts from Europe and Japan. As elsewhere, commerical interests take priority in the nuclear industry. As far as Australia is concerned, this recommendation is another nail in the coffin of attempts to control the spread of plutonium and the potential to make nuclear weapons. If the inquiry's recommendation is accepted by the British Government, it will undermine current attempts to assert multilateral control of the dangerous aspects of nuclear power. 
The International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation still has several years to run before firm conclusions are reached about methods to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons via the nuclear energy industry. The Australian Government, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  indicated in answer to a question without notice last week, is placing great faith in the outcome of these talks. The evaluation was proposed as a part of  President  Carter's attempts to discourage uranium reprocessing. Clearly, any British decision to go ahead with this part of the nuclear fuel cycle will seriously undermine whatever goodwill and good intentions remain in regard to the strengthening of nuclear safeguards. The evidence presented to the Windscale inquiry illustrated just how serious a problem is posed by the so-called 'peaceful' nuclear industry. 
The major fuel reprocessing plant in Britain makes a mockery of the Australian Government's so-called safeguards policy. It will be simply impossible to enforce a policy of granting prior approval for reprocessing for specific uranium export contracts under these conditions. The Australian Government policy simply will not work. The technical circumstances surrounding the possible establishment of a nuclear fuel reprocessing plant in Britain are also serious. High level radioactive waste is produced in large quantities from such plants- 14.5 cubic metres per annum from a single 1,000 megawatt reactor. But the disposal of that waste is still an unresolved problem. In no country- I stress the words 'in no country'- is the proposed waste containment method- vitrification- in operation on a commercial scale as the Prime Minister boasted. At this stage only laboratory experiments have been carried out; it has not been done on a large scale. We know that in the United States alone there are 74 million gallons of liquid toxic waste which cannot be reprocessed and which cannot be controlled. If a country such as the United States with its enormous wealth cannot solve the problem it will be very difficult for others to do so. 
Just last month two scientists from the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Research Establishment,  Dr Feates  and  Dr Keen,  wrote: 'Ten years of research will be needed before we have enough information on any specific site to propose a pilot-scale trial of a disposal system'. That is, even if fuel reprocessing goes ahead, even if vitrification can be made to work, there is still no guarantee that a safe dumping ground exists in Britain to dispose of the radioactive waste from the reprocessing plants. Australia cannot and must not be misled by the recommendation of the Windscale inquiry. It does not provide any justification for uranium exports. We on this side of the Parliament will maintain our opposition to the nuclear industry, surrounded as it is with unresolved environmental and security problems. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I refer the Prime Minister to the announcement last week that the inquiry in the United Kingdom headed by  Mr Justice  Parker has recommended in favour of the establishment of a nuclear fuel reprocessing plant at Winscales. I ask the Prime Minister whether a decision by Great Britain to implement this proposal would seriously undermine the current international nuclear fuel cycle evaluation discussions in which Australia is a participant and which are expected to continue for several years. I also ask whether, in view of the Government's safeguards policy stated last May, the Australian Government would now be obliged to give blanket prior approval to reprocessing uranium exports to Britain. If so, would this reduce the Government's so-called safeguards policy to a meaningless gesture as it would set an undesirable precedent for conditions on any uranium exports? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March, 1978: 
Did he state in a press statement issued on 23 February 1 978 that Australia had accepted the Nuclear Suppliers Group ( N.S.G.) rules on nuclear exports. 
If so, (a) what are the rules and (b) who are the member nations. 
-It is always sad in this House when one sees honourable members from the other side of the House get up and big note themselves. They always say: 'I did this' and 'I did that'. They are great 'I men'. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is such a man. He talks in the singular. When he gets a little more humility and understanding of the problems he might turn into a person of some substance. The issue involved that concerns me is the fact that the honourable member advocates violence. He offers to meet people outside. He is a man who threatens violence and that in itself is to be condemned. 
The proposed amendment is not the amendment of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating);  it is the amendment of the Australian Labor Party Opposition. The honourable member for Blaxland has moved it. The proposed amendment states that the Bill fails to implement the election promise of the Government 'to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country'. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on page 11 of his policy speech under the heading ' Rural ' stated: 
The scheme will bring country prices down initially to less than one cent per litre (4c per gallon) above city prices and to less than half a cent per litre (2c per gallon) in the life of the new Parliament. 
I stress that the word 'prices' is involved. That is the issue. It involves prices. In country areas the price of petrol is sometimes 20c a gallon above the price in the cities. I do not want to speak much longer because we want to take a vote tonight. Therefore I shall conclude with those remarks. It is this fact which is the basis of the Labor Party amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland. I ask honourable members who really believe in a fair go for people living in country areas to vote with us on this issue. 
I want to make some brief comments on the Victorian land deals inquiry. I shall confine my remarks to the Pakenham land purchase. In discussing the purchase of the Duncan land at Pakenham,  Sir Gregory  Gowans criticised the degree of surveillance by the then Minister for Housing,  Mr Dickie. Sir Gregory  said in his report that the Minister was the watchdog for the community and the Treasurer relied upon him to act as such. I shall quote briefly from that report.  Sir Gregory  said: 
With a purchase as large as the Duncan acquisition, the appropriate standards of ministerial responsibility could hardly be regarded as satisfied by an assumption by the Minister that all requirements had been met which the Housing Commission thought necessary and ascertaining whether a valuation had been obtained supporting the price and then making a quick calculation as to the purchase cost of a block on the basis of the price. 
All that the submission (to the Minister) itself had said as to the suitability of the land for development referred to its location. 
Nothing was said as to the expected costs of development or the possibility of their being abnormal. 
One would expect a system of procedure which would demand that this be done or that the risk of some inquiry about it would be encountered. 
The point I want to stress deals with the matter of location. At the time of the purchase of the Pakenham land I was Minister for Urban and Regional Development and an inquiry was in progress, the report of which has been tabled in the Victorian Parliament. 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 A division having been called for and the bells having been rung- 

asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) What are the names of all persons serving on Government boards or statutory authorities. 
) What fees or expenses are those persons entitled to. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Did the Prime Minister write to the South Australian Premier in August last year saying that there would be full consultation with the States in developing uniform legislation for the mining and export of uranium? Is it a fact that there were no discussions with the States prior to the announcement last week that Bills concerning uranium would be introduced into the House today? Is it also a fact that there has only been a last minute agreement to have discussions today with the States in regard to this matter? Is this an example of the Fraser Government 's policy of co-operative federalism? 
This States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill in many ways is a remarkable achievement by such a conservative government. This Government is renowned for its attack on the public sector. Its cutbacks have been extremely harsh, but this Bill will provide $300m to the States over a five-year period, commencing 1 July 1978, by way of a non-repayable grant to upgrade urban public transport. Of course this program was first introduced by the Whitlam Labor Government to operate from 1 July 1973 for a five-year period and will end on 30 June 1978. During that period an amount of between $ 1 90m and $200m will have been made available. In the 23 years of the conservative government, from 1949 to 1972, the whole infrastructure of the cities was eroded. The Labor Government brought abour a great change in this area, and I was personally involved in bringing about that change. I think it is to the credit of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)-  a Minister in a conservative government- that this sum of $300m is being made available. It is also to the credit of his Department. I put that on record. 
I think it is disturbing that this same conservative Government has destroyed programs of urban and regional development. It has eroded infrastructure to the extent that in many cities today it is only a skeleton. For example, there is the sewerage program. After all sewerage is a transport system. 
It is a transport system. Honourable members may laugh. If the system is controlled, effluent will flow in a rational way so that our environment is protected. In metropolitan Melbourne where there has been much growth on the outer fringe of that city septic systems overflow in wet weather and effluent runs into creeks which in turn flow into Port Phillip Bay. In those 23 years prior to an Australian Labor Party government that sort of pollution occurred. The Labor Party Government tried to overcome that problem. One in every seven families in Sydney and Melbourne still live in unsewered homes. The Labor Government spent $1 13m on sewerage work in the last year of its administration, but this Government scuttled that program; it completely destroyed it. Labor's land commission programs which were integrated with the urban public transport system, costing some $50m, were also completely destroyed and undermined. The provision of money for growth centres to take the pressure away from the major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, was scaled down by over $60m a year. 
Area improvement programs which were designed to raise the quality of life in local government regions were also scrapped. This was a program in addition to the enormous amount of money that was provided to the area of local government by the Grants Commission. 
The national estate financial program, established to look after what has been created by man and nature- that which is unique and beautiful- was undermined. All these things were eroded or destroyed, but this trenchant Minister was able to hold off those conservative forces in the Government at least to be able to make this contribution to urban public transport. The proposition really is not as good as the Minister stated in his second reading speech. 
-I an not trying to be unfriendly. In his second reading speech the Minister stated: 
I should also make another important point here. The new program departs from existing arrangements in that there is no automatic provision for the Commonwealth to support the cost escalation as an additional contribution to each project. 
This means, in fact, that the Government is making $300m available in 1 978 money terms when for the previous five years an amount of $l95m was made available. Of course one could get more for the dollar then than one will get for the dollar in the next five years. That, to some extent, downgrades the value of the money provision. Still I commend the Minister. At least he has increased expenditure in this field although expenditure on welfare housing under the Commonwealth State Housing Agreement has been pegged over the last three years at the same static amount. Again, the Minister has been able to fight for his slice of the cake of the budget for urban transport. A point I would stress- I make it in fairness- is that the deficits of both urban and State railways exceed $500m and the States find it extremely difficult to carry the enormous burden of making available the one-third of funding that is required under the proposal. 
The Minister said that the Government will provide $300m and that the States must find $ 1 50m. He knows it will be extremely difficult for the States to meet that commitment. With the former Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, I was jointly involved in the Labor Government's urban public transport program. If the Labor Government had been retained and had negotiated a new agreement after 1978 the proposal we would have put forward is that the Government would make available as well the one-third that the States currently are required to provide. It would have been by way of a repayable loan. I ask the Minister to give some consideration to the proposition that where the States find it hard to meet their one third cash component, the Government could at least grant them the loan at the normal long term bond rate interest. I put that as a constructive point of view. 
The other point I intend mainly to deal with is the inter-relationship of urban public transport with the remainder of urban living. The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  spoke about conditions in a city like Adelaide which is unable to operate its public transport systems efficiently because of the  over-use  of the motor car. The motor car has become a cancer in the hearts of our major cities, particularly in areas like Sydney and Melbourne. When one looks at a city like Sydney, which stretches 20 miles south, 20 miles north, 35 miles south west and 35 miles west, one sees that no matter how much money is spent on urban public transport systems, no matter how efficient the railway rolling stock and the signalling system, it cannot be efficient if it is geared to a peak load. Campbelltown is 35 miles from the central business district of Sydney and 52 per cent of the people who reside there work in or near the central business district of Sydney. One can imagine the transport system. Empty vehicles leave Sydney in the morning, pick up passengers and return to Sydney packed to the hilt. How can a transport system be efficient if it is geared to carry peak loads? 
There has to be a spirit of co-operation between the Australian Government and the State governments. Sub-metropolitan centres have to be developed. When the Labor Government was in power in entered into arrangements with the then conservative governments of New South Wales and Victoria. It agreed to develop, jointly with the New South Wales Government, submetropolitan centres in Sydney at Parramatta, Penrith, Liverpool and Campbelltown. In the case of Parramatta the Labor Government took the initiative and entered into an arrangement to develop a sub-metropolitan region. It undertook to create a Commonwealth centre at Parramatta in which at least 4,500 public servants would be employed. This also has been deferred for nearly 3 years by this government. This would increase employment opportunities for the people in the region. The Labor Government also wanted to make the building a cultural centre, embracing theatre, the arts and social amenities for the region. Not only would people in the outlying districts have more job opportunities; they would also have the right to go to the theatre and to many educational and social functions which they cannot now attend without going into the central business district. These sub-metropolitan centres should be gradually developed. The transport system would not then be geared to carrying a peak load. The load would be more balanced. In the morning people would be travelling in all directions east, west, north and south, instead of one way towards the central business district. 
This is what saddens me about this Government. When I was Minister for Urban and Regional Development I found it extremely difficult to get agreement with what I called the transport mentality. Some people still want to live in a world of boxes. They want to live in their own little departmental world. They think that transport problems can be solved in isolation. They cannot accept the proposition that there has to be an inter-relationship. When we deal with urban matters, just as when we deal with environmental matters, we have to bear in mind that everything is connected to everything else. I say to the honourable member for Kingston, who seemed to be concerned about the fact that sewerage was a transport matter, that the second principle in relation to the environment is that everything has to go somewhere. Unless sewerage systems are organised in a rational way they will operate in an irrational way and assist to destroy the environment. It is about time that this Government stopped thumping the Whitlam Government's advanced, progressive and interrelated policies of working in cooperation with State governments and local governments to try to make our urban communities more rational places in which to live. I say to the Minister that he should encourage and give support to his colleagues in other places to try to build up and strengthen the whole urban infrastructure. Eightyfive per cent of the Australian population lives in urban communities. Unless we protect those people the living standards of the great majority of Australians will be lowered and serious consequences will flow from that development. 
What I have said about Sydney has its correlation in the situation in Melbourne. When we were in government, Melbourne's needs were treated in a way to achieve understanding and co-operation. I am an anti-centralist; I have always acted in a spirit of co-operation with my State colleagues. I believe that the only way that we can overcome urban problems is to work in a spirit of co-operation. In the case of Melbourne, we wen; able to reach agreement with the Hamer Government to create sub-metropolitan centres in places like Sunshine, Broadmeadows, Watsonia, Epping and Dandenong. As I have argued, the peak load situation which exists in Sydney will continue to occur in Melbourne particularly because of the stupidity- if I can use the term- of over-investment. I refer to that stupid priority given to expenditure on the building of the underground rail loop in the central business district of Melbourne without looking after the remainder of Melbourne's urban rail system. Prior to 1972, 75 per cent of rolling stock in use on the urban infrastructure railways of Melbourne was built before 1928. The enormous amount of money that is now being poured into the underground system in Melbourne will eat the heart and soul out of the public resources that are available for the upgrading of the urban public transport system and the Victorian transport system as a whole. 
That is the message that we should convey. To some extent it is the Minister himself who fights for his quarter with the Cabinet, Again, I do not always agree with him- he knows that I find points of very broad disagreement with him- but his actions are a credit to him because he is a National Country Party man. He has been fighting for the case of urban public transport. That, to my mind, is a good point for which we should give him credit. What we must start to do is look more broadly at the issues involved. It really concerns me to come into this House and to hear young honourable members who have really received great benefits from the fruits of the Whitlam Labor Government in their electorates - 

 Government supporters- -Ha, ha! 
Honourable members can laugh like jackals if they like. The honourable member for Kingston knows that the urban railway lines that were constructed in his electorate were not the result of the programs of this Government. They were the result of the programs of the Labor Government. The honourable member knows that the land commission program and the planning that went on in this area were products of the Federal Labor Government. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  knows that the work that was done in the western region of Sydney, including the enormous amount of money expended on and planning in the area- I refer to the Toongabbie Creek proposals and so many of the programs within his electorate at that time- were part of the area improvement program. Publicly he applauded us at that time within his electorate. But the praise does not appear in  Hansard.  Labor's initiative in relation to the depressed areas in the whole of the Parramatta basin came from the Whitlam Labor Government and from the Department of Urban and Regional Development. These programs were carried out under the initiative of the Labor Government. Whenever we see progress being made by a Ministry from either side of the political spectrum we should give some credit to it and have some understanding of the issues involved instead of acting as a pack of jackals. I am grateful for the crumbs that fall from the table of the Minister. The people of Sydney, Melbourne and our other urban communities are also grateful for the crumbs that fall from the table of the Minister and the conservative government. 
We do not oppose this legislation. We are glad that the Government is continuing the programs initiated by the Whitlam Labor Government. It is a great pity that more of those urban programs were not followed through in the way in which they should have been, instead of the present Government following its destructive pattern of cutting back the expenditure in the public sector. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. Has the Treasury made an in depth analysis of, or prepared a paper showing, the short term and long term economic implications for Australia of the proposed uranium mining? If it has, will the paper be made available to the House? If it has not, will the Treasurer advise when a paper will be made available? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Did he receive a telegram from the Northern Land Council on or about 4 October 1977; if so what was the full text of the telegram. 
Does the intention of the joint venturers to carry on with preliminary road and site construction violate recommendation 1 of Chapter 12 on page 328 of the Second Ranger Report which provides that Aboriginal title should be granted, the national park established and the necessary control mechanisms set up before any substantial amount of construction work is done on the Ranger project or substantial numbers of people are brought into the area. 
Will the Government carry out all the preliminary actions, as recommended on page 305 of the Second Ranger Report before allowing the continuance of any developmental work at Jabiru, N.T. 
I join with my colleagues in opposing at all stages this obnoxious Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. I want to comment on remarks made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston).  He stated that we claim that the nuclear industry is synonomous with the bomb. I quote part of the third finding of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, which appears at page 185 of its first report: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
I wish to goodness that honourable members opposite would stop pushing out their pious propaganda and understand the connection of nuclear weapons with the nuclear industry. I do not want to spend any more time in answering the honourable member for Hotham- my time is more precious than that. I wish that this Government would cut out the flowery and pious language it uses in its statements on uranium. Everyone knows that members of the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party are hawks on the uranium issue. Everyone knows what the Government's real intentions and real concerns are. They are to commit Australia's uranium to the world nuclear fuel cycle; to mine and sell off the uranium as quickly as possible; and to control the growing Australian opposition to uranium mining. The Government will do this by pious expressions of concern, by lies, by innuendoes and by suppression and misrepresentation of information. If that fails it will stand ready with the full repressive force of the police state tactics enshrined in the Atomic Energy Act, which the Bill now before the House seeks to amend, to suppress openly opposition to the uranium go-ahead. 
This Government does not give a damn about the dangers associated with nuclear power. It does not give a damn about the growing and frightening risk of nuclear war that is part and parcel of the spread of nuclear energy generation facilities, which is spelt out in the third finding on page 185 of the first Fox report. I ask honourable members to read and understand those sections of the Fox report which deal with this matter. Of course, this Government has been under pressure from nuclear reactor manufacturers, particularly the Westinghouse Corporation and the General Electric organisation. The Government does not give a damn that one of the customers it is courting at present- the Philippines- has come by its nuclear reactor by very dubious means and has located that reactor in the Philippines at very close proximity to four active volcanoes. The Government does not care that the Marcos regime, with which it is making bilateral arrangements, has already demonstrated total disregard not only for the protests of people of the Philippines who live near the reactor site but also for the democratic and constitutional rights of the entire population of that nation. 
This Government does not care a damn about Aboriginal people in the north, particularly in the Arnhem Land area. It rather likes the idea that the sovereignty of the Australian people is threatened by tying Australia into the world nuclear fuel cycle, which is controlled at its key points by ruthless commercial and political interests which do not hesitate to move into countries and to crush popular opposition to their commercial ambitions. This Government does not care a damn that the proposed future pattern of economic development in Australia, with emphasis on mining for export, of which uranium would be a significant part, will mean fewer jobs and lower standards of living for the working people of this country. 
Well, the Australian Labor Party does care. It is concerned. Indeed, it is very much concerned about the issue. The rank and file members of the Labor Party all over Australia have expressed their concern about the unresolved problems of uranium mining and nuclear power. Their concerns have formed the basis of the Australian Labor Party's uranium policy, which opposes any new uranium mining development until all the unresolved problems have been resolved. Labor people will not be satisfied with some shifty footwork by the Government on Aboriginal land rights or so-called safeguards against proliferation. 
Labor's people know that the proposed 'bilateral arrangements' to control the use of Australia's uranium are not worth the paper on which they are written. How can the Government make a penal provision contained in its bilateral agreement work? That is what we want to know. No Minister has come into this House to give those details. It is not possible to make it work. It has never been possible throughout the history of man and it never will be possible. Both  President  Marcos and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  know that a bilateral agreement could not be made to stick. They know that there is no way that we can be sure that Australian uranium, once it leaves the ground, will not find its way to a nuclear weapon during the 250,000 years fife of the plutonium it contains. 
Labor has identified a long list of problems and has said that no new mines are to be developed until the members of the Labor Party are satisfied that all the problems have been solved. Labor has recognised that for the time being we are stuck with an aggressive pro-uranium Government. That will not always be the case. Labor has sought to make its policies effective, even though we are now in opposition, by saying quite clearly that we will repudiate- I stress this point- any commitment of a non-Labor government to develop new mines. The message is clear to the uranium companies, the power companies and the finance companies which are considering investing in new uranium mines. They do so at their own risk. It is clear to  President  Marcos, to his Atomic Energy Commission and to the Westinghouse Corporation that they should not count on Australian uranium to fuel their reactors or to fuel their other ambitions over the 30-year life of a nuclear power facility. 
Labor has made its position clear. The investments will not be of use until the inevitable defeat of these conservative forces which now occupy government. Anyone who thinks that the ALP policy is negotiable- that Labor will shift its ground- is making a very serious mistake and has no real understanding of the depth of feeling of Labor's rank and file in opposing uranium mining, or of the strength with which Labor people will defend and implement Labor's present policy. The strategy of the pro-uranium lobby to play down the uranium issue and to remove it from public discussion will not be successful against the conscious and alert members of the Labor Party and other progressive organisations in Australia. These people have made up their minds and they will change their position only after it has been proved that all the problems in regard to uranium mining have been solved. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has tried just about every trick in the book to sell the idea of uranium mining to the Australian people. We heard him claim that nuclear power is essential to meet the world energy needs and that no alternative sources of energy exist. Yet within a week, Herman Kahn, who would normally be a political ally of the Government, said: 
Several years ago I said that the world was crazy to go nuclear when coal was available . . . there is enough coal to meet all the world 's energy needs. 
That is a fact of life. There is no crisis in solid fuels, in energy driving fuels; the shortage exists in liquid fuels. The  Deputy  Prime Minister is using the sales pitch that somehow Australia's international standing will increase because it participates in the untidy rush to sell uranium and compound the risks. I want to deal with one of the sales pitches which the  Deputy  Prime Minister has been pushing hard in the Parliament and outside. That is the issue of existing contracts.  His  line goes like this: 'No political party wants to add to Australia's embarrassment by placing further in jeopardy the honouring of existing contracts.' Labor's position on existing contracts is clear. It relates to the views expressed in the first Fox report. I refer honourable members to page 64 of that report wherein it is stated that existing contracts do not pose a problem because if it is decided that Australia should not develop new uranium mines, then uranium to meet existing contracts can be obtained from other countries. This is Labor's position. It was carried overwhelmingly at the Perth Conference of the Australian Labor Party. No new mines are to be developed to meet existing contracts. If enough uranium is not available from the Mary Kathleen mine and the Lucas Heights stockpile, uranium can be obtained elsewhere to fill the existing contracts. The  Deputy  Prime Minister should have given up on that tired old trick long ago. 
The decision of the Fraser Government to use the Atomic Energy Act to cover uranium mining at Ranger, against the strong recommendations of the Fox inquiry, is a very ominous decision. If honourable members have not already read italthough anybody who reads  Hansard  or the newspapers should be aware of its contents- I refer them to pages 248 to 252 of the second Fox report The amendments to the Atomic Energy Act now before the House compound the concern. The Government continues to say that it is using the Atomic Energy Act only because the Labor Government used it in the Memorandum of Understanding signed in October 1974. But that Memorandum said also that no decision on the mining go-ahead would be made pending the outcome of the Ranger inquiry. Labor would certainly not have cast aside the outcome of this inquiry, as this Government has done. Clearly, if the Ranger inquiry says that it is inappropriate and even dangerous for a government to invoke the Atomic Energy Act to cover a commercial venture, that Act should not be used. That is one of the reasons why it should not be used and it is why the Opposition opposes this legislation. Moreover, in 1974 the Labor Government had not looked in depth at all aspects of the commitment of Australia's uranium to the world nuclear fuel cycle. At that time Labor's policy was for uranium mining. Since then we have had the benefit of much information from Australia and overseas, particularly that contained in the report of the Ranger Environmental Inquiry. Opposition to nuclear power has grown enormously in Australia. A growing proportion of the population is alert to the dangers of the mining and export of uranium and oppose it. 
Labor's reference to the Atomic Energy Act in the 1974 Memorandum is irrelevant in the present circumstances, just as are so many of the twisted arguments that this Government uses to cover its pro-uranium policy. As usual with this Government, it is necessary to look behind the words to see what its true motives are. Why did the Fraser Government decide to use the Atomic Energy Act? That is the question we must ask ourselves. The answer lies in the extremely repressive provisions of that Act, drawn up in the climate of the Cold War when the allies were still developing their nuclear weapons strategy. As honourable members well know uranium was being mined at Rum Jungle under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act and at that time the Atomic Energy Commission was exporting uranium both to Britain and the United States to be used in the production of atomic weapons. Of course, in the 1950s one had to look under one's bed every night to see whether there was a Red there. War was imminent in the minds of many. That was the time when this very repressive piece of legislation was introduced. Clearly the Government recognises that this repressive Atomic Energy Act will be extremely useful if it fails to neutralise public opposition in general and trade union opposition in particular. By conducting uranium mining under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act the Government has the power to deny ordinary industrial rights to workers and unions associated with the mining, handling and transportation of uranium. The Act can be used to allow the mining companies to determine the composition and affiliation of its work force. Indeed, the Army could be brought in to ensure that uranium mining operations were not interrupted. 
The Act denies basic civil rights to any persons, including workers and union members, who hinder uranium mining in any way. It prohibits free speech and demonstrations against the projects. It gives the police the right to search and arrest without warrant and to convict people without proving that an offensive act has been committed. The use of the Atomic Energy Act to cover uranium mining makes an outlaw of any worker, union or Australian citizen who does not fully comply with the uranium mining and export policies of the Fraser Government. That is what this oppressive Act is all about. If the Government cannot get uranium the easy way it will get it the hard way and it will use the iron fist. One of the many repressive aspects of the Atomic Energy Act is that 'all works carried out by or on behalf of the Atomic Energy Commission' including uranium mining at Ranger- are viewed 'as if those works were approved defence projects within the meaning of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act.' This aspect is contained in section 60 of the principal Act. Therefore, in relation to uranium mining at Ranger a person can be fined $1,000 to $10,000 or gaoled from six months to 12 months for doing anything that hinders or obstructs the uranium mining project. This includes opposing the project in any way, including writing or speaking against it. It includes the situation where workers or unions desire to boycott any part of the project either directly or by a secondary boycott. 
Under the provisions of the Act many of the decisions of the Trades and Labor Council and the Austraiian Council of Trade Unions would be illegal and subject to the previously mentioned penalties. The provisions of the Act would cover participants in demonstrations that are occurring already against the shipment of uranium, if that shipment were to be from Ranger. This aspect of the Atomic Energy Act is all- embracing. It can be used against any section of society, including workers and unions, whenever the Government feels it necessary to use the iron hand rather than the kid glove to clear the way for uranium mining and exporting. The Government now is proposing, as we are opposing, provisions that will consolidate the extent of the power of the Government under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act. It wants unlimited power to dictate the mining policies of the States, particularly Labor States such as South Australia, which have firm and sound antiuranium policies. It wants to make a mockery of the regulations of the uranium industry by putting the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in charge of the regulation of uranium mining while at the same time it is clearly very active in promoting things nuclear. 
All told, the use of this piece of legislation to cover commercial uranium mining ventures in a climate of growing public hostility to uranium mining and export, poses a serious threat to civil liberties and to the industrial rights of a significant section of the Australian work force. The use of this legislation shows the Government up in its true colours. It is a repressive, devious, authoritarian government prepared to sacrifice the fabric of society in order to advance limited sectional commercial interests. I hope that some members on the other side of the House will have the decency to stand in support of civil liberties at least, even if they do not want to stand in support of the policies against uranium mining for which we stand. I hope that they will cross the floor and vote with honourable members on this side of the House against this obnoxious Bill which, in the history of this Parliament, is one of the most objectionable pieces of legislation ever proposed for use against civilians. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
With reference to Budget Paper No. 1, page 98, is the Bureau of Mineral Resources at present gathering and disseminating geological and geophysical information relevant to uranium exploration; if so, where. 
Has the Bureau disseminated this type of information in the past; if so, which companies have taken uranium mining leases on sites first discovered and surveyed by the Bureau. 
To which states is it intended that the Bureau progressively restrict its activities. 
Is the  Deputy  Prime Minister aware of the following statement reported to have been made on 1 8 February by Keicchi Ito Director of the Japanese Defence Bureau: 'If in the future we should hypothetically, cease to be a signatory to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, then we can own nuclear weapons within the constitutional limits. "? Is it a fact, as reported, that high Japanese officials openly discuss the hypothetical possibilities should Japan discard the nuclear proliferation restraint? Is it also a fact that the signatories to the Non-Proliferation Treaty can withdraw from it, and from their safeguards obligations, upon three months' notice? If so, can the Minister inform the House how the Australian Government's back-up safeguards obligations would override the perceived national interest of a nation which had decided to withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in order to develop its own nuclear weapons? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Did he refuse Jose Ramos Horta a visa to visit Australia because the Australian Government did not recognise the Fretilin Government. 
Did he state that it had been Government policy for some 1 8 months that people claiming to be representatives of governments not recognised by Australia would not be allowed into Australia except in the most exceptional circumstances. 
) Under what exceptional circumstances were  Mr Alfred  Urbanski, representative of the Polish Government in Exile, and  Mr Tibor  Tollas, representative of the World Federation of Hungarian Freedom Fighters, granted visas to visit Australia in 1977. 
Because of  Mr Horta  's close association with so many displaced Timorese in this country, and the lack of recognition by a majority of the nations of the world of Indonesia's military take-over of East Timor, do circumstances exist for  Mr Horta  being permitted to enter Australia so that he may make contact with his own people and put the other side of the picture to the Australian people and the Press. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 April 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the United States Government's follow-up study on personnel who were involved in their past atomic testing programs. 
Will the Australian Government institute a similar inquiry amongst all persons who worked at Maralinga, South Australia, during the years 1 9S0 to 1 965 in order to ascertain what ill-effects they may have suffered. 
I  want to restrict my remarks this morning to the reporting in the national Press and the reporting by the Parliamentary Press Gallery of the uranium debate. It is a sorry and sad situation in this Parliament to witness the recent so-called parliamentary debate here when six Bills and a ministerial statement were pushed through this House in approximately 10 hours and although these Bills have critical consequences for not only the whole of this nation but also for our relationships with the rest of the world the newspaper reporting of the debate was abysmal. It was so poor that one had much difficulty in finding it in the newspapers. This was particularly so on 4 May when one had to look hard to find the reports of that debate. The Melbourne  Age  reported the debate on page 12. The  Sydney Morning Herald  reported in on page 18 and  Melbourne Sun  reported it on page 32. There was no report in the  Australian  nor in the  Australian Financial Review. 
This was a disgrace when it is considered that we were, in fact, taking a decision on the enormous implications involved in mining in Australia nearly 20 per cent of the known uranium deposits in the western world. One only has to look at the third report of the First Fox Royal Commission to realise the grave importance of this decision. That report said that the nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war and that this is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
At the time these important Bills were being pushed through this Parliament there was very little reporting in the Press of what the Parliament was debating and what honourable members said.  A  prime example of the shallowness of the reporting is a special article written by 
Peter Bowers in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  He talked about the uranium debate and a shift from morals to dollars. How shallow is such reporting. 
What is the situation involving the Aboriginal people? One has only to look at the second Fox Commission report to see clearly set out at page 9 that the Aboriginal people gave clear evidence to the inquiry that they are opposed to any mining of their land by Pancontinental Mining Ltd or Ranger. There was no mention of that in the Bower's article. The Aboriginals are opposed to mining at Jabiluka or Jabiru but because they feel they cannot stop the Government from going ahead with the mining project obviously these people have a right to try to negotiate and try to get some money as compensation for spoiling their environment and their traditional way of life. In fact, the Aboriginal people are very fearful of mining. Again, we have to ask why  Mr Bowers  did not refer to the Aboriginal position which was expressed in the Ranger report. This is just one example of reporting by members of the Press Gallery. 
I have referred to examples of poor Press reporting. The fact is that the reports have been slanted. One only has to look at the poor reports in the Press during the last Federal elections. This subject was hardly reported except in the last few days of the campaign. The debate did not get off the ground. Perhaps the Press Gallery reporters are frustrated in their attempts to report. Perhaps their attitude is that it is not worth them reporting these issues because it is newspaper policy to keep out those reports and not to initiate major discussion. We know that the newspapers have been playing down the debate on uranium particularly the anti-mining aspect. Recently in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  a former member of this House, W. C. Wentworth, was given wide coverage. That newspaper has failed to put the other point of view in this matter. The sad aspect of this matter is that the Press Gallery as a whole does not seem to make any real in-depth analysis of what is going on. One could say that the shallowness of the writings of the members of the Press Gallery is appalling. I suppose that there is only one exception. I want to make it quite clear that I believe that  Mr Tony  Thomas of the Melbourne  Age  has tried to make an in-depth analysis of a broad aspect of the uranium debate. I know that he has travelled widely in the uranium area where the uranium is proposed to be mined. I exclude him from my remarks. That does not exonerate the Melbourne  Age.  The reporting of the Melbourne  Age  on the uranium debate has fallen off. In the last six months, that newspaper has presented a very poor report indeed. 
I ask: What journalist in the Press Gallery has made an anaylsis of the Australian Government's claim that the problem of nuclear waste disposal has been solved? For instance, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement indicating that the whole question of nuclear waste had been solved? He made that comment early in the uranium debate, prior to the elections. He over-simplified the situation. He said that the problems had been overcome and that laboratory tests had been carried out. But, at the same time, he put forward the proposition that Australia, in its nuclear safeguards proposal, would not allow the reprocessing of nuclear waste. If one wanted to proceed further on this subject and if one believed that the waste disposal problem was solved by a process called vitrification, one could not be in favour of not having a reprocessing program. If we want to use the vitrification process, reprocessing first has to take place. Even in the United States of America reprocessing is not permitted. I have asked questions in the House on the matter. In the United States there are 74,000 million gallons of liquid toxic waste. The Americans do not know what to do with it. America is the richest country in the world and it has not followed through this process. What journalist in the Gallery has written or examined the nuclear waste dilemma or examined in Press articles the government's false claim. 
Has the Press made a deep analysis of the Atomic Energy Act which is one of the most oppressive Acts with relation to civil liberties ever known in this country? It was introduced at the time of the Cold War. What articles have been written by members of the Press Gallery? Where are the articles referring to reports on this subject and to debates that have taken place in the Parliament? Where have Australian journalists made a study of the safeguards of proliferation either on the so-called bilateral agreements between the Australian Government and other governments or on the so-called safeguards under the International Atomic Energy Agency? Have members of the Press Gallery made any real analyses of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the parts that they play in the whole matter of nuclear power? Has there been any real analysis of the economic aspects of this question? I asked in this House whether the Treasury had made any short term or long term analyses of the consequences of the outcome of uranium mining exports. The answer was a negative one. What follow up has been made by the Press? What of our negotiations with Iran, governed by the Shah, or with the Philippines, governed by  President  Marcos? We know that both of these leaders are thugs. We know how their people are oppressed. We know the use to which they will put our uranium if they are able to get it. The third recommendation of the first Fox report stated that the nuclear power industry is connected with the proliferation of nuclear weapons. In what way did the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  answer a question this morning from the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  about the nuclear waste from the volcanic island in the Philippines? He gave a negative reply. It will be interesting to see whether there is any follow up by the Press Gallery. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission conducted any studies into nuclear waste disposal or storage in Central Australia. 
Does the Government have any knowledge of any private companies which may have conducted studies into nuclear waste disposal or storage in Central Australia; if so, which Commonwealth Government Departments have knowledge or oversight of these research projects. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) Did he state in reply to a question without notice on 14 March 1978 dealing with nuclear fuel reprocessing, that if the United Kingdom does proceed with a reprocessing plant at Windscale it does not run counter to the fuel cycle evaluation program or the Australian Government's nuclear safeguards policy. 
Did he also say that President Caner's more recent actions have been moving in the same direction; if so, will he give details of where President Carter made his public statements reversing his policy of opposition to the reprocessing of nuclear fuel waste. 
I wish to speak about a matter that I raised in the Grievance Debate two weeks ago. It relates to the poor reporting of the national Press of the uranium debate. In that debate I particularly mentioned the shallow reporting of certain journalists on the  Sydney Morning Herald.  It is perhaps not surprising that the  Sydney Morning Herald,  in its brief and inadequate report of my criticisms, published the inaccurate smear of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  that I have not opposed nuclear power in the Soviet Union. On many occasions I have spoken against Soviet development of nuclear power but it suits the  Sydney Morning Herald  to publish such smears. It is part of the subtle campaign by the  Sydney Morning Herald  to label any opposition to uranium rnining as left-wing opposition and to obscure the real issues which concern a wide cross section of the Australian community. 
Another example of this kind of inaccurate and simple minded smear is contained in an article by  Mr W.  C. Wentworth published by the  Herald  on Monday 15 May. I quote from the article: 
The ALP found itself confronted by the anti-uranium line which its left wing had adopted from overseas. 

 Mr Wentworth went on to say: 
Politically the ALP is in a very ambiguous situation. Many of its leaders are privately convinced that uranium mining should go ahead but they are responding to left wing pressure and making public commitments against it. 
I have written to the  Sydney Morning Herald  about this kind of reporting. I seek leave to have my letter and the reply of the Editor-in-Chief of the  Sydney Morning Herald  incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows 

In my letter I point out to the  Herald  that opposition to uranium mining is based on a strong grass roots anti-uranium feeling in the branches of the Labor Party. That was reflected two weeks ago when the Victorian State branch called a special conference of delegates at one week's notice to fight the Fraser Government's repressive uranium legislation. I point out that opposition to uranium cuts across all ideological positions in the Australian Labor Party. It parallels the identification of many members with the anti-nuclear war movement, a movement for humanity, sanity and survival. But, the  Sydney Morning Herald  chooses not to publish these facts. It chooses not to publish my letter. It has sent me a detailed reply but chooses to have my arguments analysed and judged only by the  Herald  bureaucracy, not by its readers. As I have had incorporated in  Hansard  my letter and the letter of the Editor-in-Chief of the  Sydney Morning Herald,  people will have the right to determine the facts of the case. What has the  Sydney Morning Herald  done to promote the uranium debate in recent months? I have instanced the articles of  Mr W.  C. Wentworth, five in all, appearing on 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th and 15th May. Those articles amount to about 5,300 words of prime feature space with associated diagrams. What has the  Herald  done to present the opposite view to that held by  Mr Wentworth?  The  Herald  has failed to act on requests by the movement against uranium mining to put views contrary to those of  Mr Wentworth.  The  Herald  has failed to print an article submitted to it by  Dr Hugh  Saddler, a former research assistant to the Ranger inquiry, which discusses some of the issues raised by  Mr Wentworth.  The  Sydney Morning Herald  certainly has not given equal space to the anti-uranium position. I submit that democracy is at a low ebb when public debate on a matter so important as uranium can be suppressed in that way. That has been the situation with the  Sydney Morning Herald. 
There have been other inaccurate reportings by correspondents to the  Sydney Morning Herald  relating to the reporting of the Labor Party Caucus. I have also reported that matter. I shall talk about it on another occasion when I have more time than I have at the moment in an attempt to have the  Sydney Morning Herald  correct the position. If it does not do so I shall raise the matter in the House again. 
-The new agreement will not meet the crisis that confronts the public housing sector in Australia. In no way will the agreement reduce substantially the backlog of families waiting for Housing Commission homes- a backlog of nearly 100,000 families. Those people have no other chance of obtaining shelter for their families. If the present extreme economic circumstances continue the position will become worse in the future. The agreement is consistent with the Fraser Government's downgrading of the public sector. To show how much conservative Governments have downgraded public housing one only has to examine the number of dwellings built by the conservative governments of the early and mid 1950s. In 1953 a conservative government built over 16,000 homes. In the following year more than 17,000 homes were built. In 1955 the Government built nearly 1 8,000 dwellings. Of all housing built in 1955, 22 per cent was built under a similar type of housing agreement as the one before the House. Last year, in 1977, the Government built only 1 1,400 dwellings, or 7.9 per cent of all houses built. By this agreement even less houses will be built in 1978 than were built in 1977. 
People may make their own judgments about this sectional and class biased government. Even if it built 1 1,000 dwellings in 1978, with new applicants running at more than 50,000 a year and a backlog of nearly 100,000 people waiting on the Housing Commission lists, it will take years to overcome this tragic problem. I say 'tragic' because Australia has skilled men and the materials available to build houses. All that is needed is a government that will make a decision to overcome the tragic position. Therefore I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that 
the Commonwealth Government should meet the cost of rental rebates to a minimum uniform level agreed to jointly between the State and Commonwealth Governments; 
rents charged for Housing Commission dwellings should be set 
for persons with incomes up to 1 35 per cent of average weekly earnings at not more than 85 per cent of the rates of rental on the open market, and 
for persons with incomes in excess of 135 per cent of average weekly earnings at the rates of rental on the open market; 
the interest rates charged for Home Purchase Account 'on lent' to other lending authorities should rise in line with capacity to pay; 
the Commonwealth Parliament should have the opportunity annually to debate the appropriation to determine the progress made on the spirit of the understanding contained in the Bill; 
the Housing Authorities in co-operation with the Commonwealth should develop a strategy as part of overall urban and regional planning to ensure a social mix in housing estates as well as ensuring that public housing tenants have access to social and cultural amenities and job opportunities; and 
the Commonwealth should provide sufficient funds to Housing Authorities to ensure that a target completion rate of15,000 dwellings a year to overcome the backlog on the Housing Authority wailing lists can be met'. 
The new housing agreement increases the interest rate on housing at a time when the Fraser Government is boasting that it intends to reduce interest rates, particularly on housing. The interest rate on advances determined annually by the Commonwealth for rental housing constructed by the Housing Commission will rise from 4 per cent under the former Labor Government's agreement to 5 per cent under the proposed new agreement. Eligibility to register for a Housing Commission home under the old agreement was restricted to people with incomes of less than 85 per cent of the average weekly earning. By the new agreement that restriction is to be abolished. Home purchase assistance on advances determined annually by the Commonwealth will remain at the same interest rate of 4½ per cent, as was the case under the former agreement. 
An administrative charge will be made by the lending authority. That was the situation under the old agreement and the same position will apply under this agreement. But, under the new agreement, after the first year the interest charge will be increased by half a per cent each year until it reaches one per cent below the long term bond rate. At the present time the long term bond rate is 9.2 per cent. Under the previous agreement an applicant for this scheme could earn up to 95 per cent of the average weekly earnings and still be eligible for assistance. Under the present agreement that means test will be abolished. The agreement is for 3 years compared with the previous agreement which was for 5 years. Under the previous agreement homes purchased from the Housing Commission were financed by the State housing authorities. Under the new agreement sales of Housing Commission homes will be for cash. Therefore the purchasers have to find outside finance wherever they can. Under the Labor Government agreement of 1 973 a maximum of 30 per cent of Housing Commission homes could be sold. By the new agreement there is no restraint on the proportion of dwellings to be sold but at least 40 per cent must be sold by the third year of the new agreement. 
Clause 18 of the new agreement provides for Housing Commission rentals to rise to market related rents. That provision will create a great deal of hardship within the community. The new agreement provides for a new pensioner housing arrangement to replace the earlier Dwellings for Pensioners Scheme. Under the new scheme the Commonwealth Government makes nonrepayable grants to the State to provide rental accommodation for pensioners. The new scheme allows married pensioners to be eligible. 
I turn to give details why the Opposition asks the House to support its amendment. I shall now deal with the first amendment which reads: 
the Commonwealth Government should meet the cost of rental rebates to a minimum uniform level agreed to jointly between the State and Commonwealth Governments; 
The Commonwealth Government is forcing State housing authorities to increase rents to the market rental. That will increase the number of housing authority tenants seeking housing rent rebates. The increase is directed at those people who are at present living in housing commission homes and whom the Federal Government believes are able to pay market rentals. There is a plan which will make this group vacate housing authority dwellings. These dwellings when vacated will be occupied by tenants on low incomes who will need rental rebate assistance. It may be that the more needy will be accommodated. This will place severe strains on the finances of the State housing authorities and possibly on State Treasury resources. There is strong evidence to support the view that rental rebates will prove very costly. Already many States have begun to move towards rental rebate. 
Let us examine the situation in Queensland. In February 1978 rents rose, on average, about 42 per cent over the levels that they were 19 months previously. This has resulted in a most significant increase in the number of tenants receiving rebates as well as in the total cost of the rebates. From the end of September 1977 to the end of April 1978 the number of tenants receiving rebates grew from 3,500 to 5,800, an increase of some 66 per cent. The annual rebate costs rose from $2.4m to $5.75m, an increase of some 140 per cent. The proportion of lettable dwellings on which rebates were paid rose from 23 per cent to 41 per cent of the total. At this rate the rebate cost will absorb about 19 per cent of the total Commonwealth advances to Queensland in 1977-78. In New South Wales the experience has been similar. In July 1977 prior to the introduction of market related rents and a new related formula, about 1 5 per cent of tenants received rebates. But by the end of April this figure had risen to 26 per cent. 
In October 1977 in Western Australia rents were pushed up significantly. At the end of June 36 per cent of tenants were receiving rebates. After the rent increases in December 1977 almost 43 per cent of tenants were receiving rebates. It is obvious from the evidence that the move towards market related rents will significantly increase the total expenditure of rebates. The situation may be that those in need are being helped, but it also means that considerable costs are being incurred in financing the rebates. Such a situation will lead to considerable effects in relation to the provision of welfare housing. 
The very high costs of rebates may encourage housing authorities, particularly under conservative State governments, to cut back on rental stocks and thereby cut rebate expenditure. They may become more interested in the construction of nouses for sale, particularly under these new agreements, because under them they can sell as many homes as they like. Also, according to the Act, it is possible for the authorities to use Commonwealth funds to finance these rebates. This would in turn mean less funds being available for the construction or purchase of dwellings for rental accommodation. Both situations could lead to less rental accommodation being provided. It would be most undesirable if these effects were to occur. More rental accommodation is needed, not less, if the waiting lists for welfare housing are to be reduced on an overall basis. 
There is a need to establish a uniform minimum standard for welfare housing, regardless of the State in which a person in need may live. Just as pensions do not vary between States, neither should access to and cost of housing vary to those in need. Housing costs account for a large proportion of the income of tenants of welfare housing. The rental rebate concept assures that no more than a certain proportion of the income is spent on housing. But the Bill allows this proportion to vary between the States. For example, this means that tenants who are pensioners will have different amounts of after-housing income depending on the State in which they live. To overcome these inequities an agreement should be reached between the Commonwealth and the States on an agreed minimum level of rebates to ensure that those in need are required to spend no more than, say, 20 per cent of their income on rent. The cost of the rebate would be paid by the Commonwealth Government, just as it now meets the cost of other uniform welfare payments. We question why housing is excluded. Why cannot the Commonwealth meet the same situation across the board as it does in relation to welfare payments. If the States wished to raise this minimum standard, which would be equivalent to a lowering of the proportion of income spent on housing, they could do so from their own resources. 
Let me now deal with that aspect of our amendment which, if accepted, will mean that rents charged for housing commission dwellings will be set. Firstly, persons with incomes of up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings will pay not more than 85 per cent of the rate of rental on the open market and, secondly, persons with incomes in excess of 135 per cent of average weekly earnings will pay the rate of rental on the open market. Under this housing agreement the Commonwealth is forcing the States to charge market rentals on all housing commission dwellings. Those tenants who do not come within the category pf being eligible for a rental rebate will find it difficult in the extreme to meet these increased charges. They are already finding it extremely difficult as the purchasing power of their incomes has been reduced by at least $14 a week during the last two years under the Fraser Government, due to decisions of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. That does not take into consideration the increased costs of health, medical and petrol charges, let alone the fall in living standards due to cut-backs in public sector spending. 
The concept of a market rent is an artificial meaning in an economy where funds for housing are severely restricted from time to time because of the requirements of short term management of the economy. These restrictions of monetary policy have reduced the availability of housing funds as well as pushing up their costs. This has limited the amount of rental housing available in the private sector and as a consequence has pushed up rents in the private market. Government policy on finance has aggravated rent increases on the open market. For example in New South Wales, particularly in metropolitan Sydney, a large number of flats that were formerly available for renting are now being sold with strata title. Other examples are of young people coming together and renting flats and houses. The rent they are prepared to pay is far in excess of what a normal family could afford. This all adds up to a false and inflated level of market rent. 
Our amendment seeks to amend the Federal Government's hard line position to allow those people earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings to pay only 85 per cent of market rental. I think that is a reasonable proposition. This group already has been hard put, particularly if it lives in metropolitan Sydney or metropolitan Melbourne. A single income family finds it extremely difficult to purchase a home in its own right. A new 10 square home in the western suburbs of Sydney and land costs about $35,000. If those earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings, which is $277 a week, were to purchase such a home and they sought a $30,000 loan to be repaid over 25 years at 10 per cent, the monthly repayment would be $272. The lending authorities would not give a loan if the repayments exceeded 25 per cent of a person's income. So it can be seen that most people with incomes below 135 per cent of average weekly earnings, particularly if they live in metropolitan Sydney or Melbourne, are in a hopeless position to obtain their own cottage.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which I have had prepared by the statistical service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. It shows the monthly repayments and total repayments of loans of $20,000, $25,000 and $30,000 together with the various interest rates. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805265_44_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The amendment moved by the Opposition is reasonable. The Government ought to give it serious consideration. I think that it is false and wrong for honourable members opposite to talk about making housing commission rentals equal to the full market rental. It is fair to make the rents equal to 85 per cent of the full market rental in the case of people earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. I think that this is fair and the Government should seriously consider this proposition. 
Let me deal quickly with the homes purchased under the home purchase account. Under the old agreement, an interest rate of 4½ per cent plus administrative charges was charged. It remained at that level for the period of the housing loan. If the loan were for 30 years, that was the level of interest paid except if the Government determined another policy. Under this Bill which covers the new agreement, interest rates for onlending to State authorities will remain the same as those under the old agreement for at least the first year of a person's loan. But after the first year, the interest increases by a half of one per cent a year until it reaches a level which is one per cent below the long-term bond rate. This rate of increase in interest is far too steep. For example, let me cite the position in respect of a $25,000 loan repayable over 30 years with an interest rate of 5% per cent- that is, 5 per cent for the fund and three-quarters of one per cent for management. In the first year, a weekly repayment of $33.91 would be required. In the second year, at an interest rate of  6%  per cent, a weekly repayment of $35.73 would be required. This represents an increase of 5.4 per cent. In the third year, with an interest rate of 6% per cent, weekly repayments would amount to $37.55, an increase of 4.8 per cent over the level of the second year's repayments. These rates of increase are too rigid, although borrowers probably could accommodate the rate of increase in payments of this magnitude at the current rate of inflation. However, severe difficulties would be faced if the inflation rate fell to, say, 3 per cent or 4 per cent per annum. 
The Minister for the Northern Territory says that it will. Frankly, honourable members on this side of the House also hope that it will. But, having said that, the Government will make this situation even more difficult. Therefore, the Government should cast off its dogmatism and listen to some of the rational propositions the Opposition is putting before the 
House. It would be better if the interest rate increase were geared to the capacity to pay which will vary over time rather than adhere to a rigid and fixed rate of increase as set down by this Government. 
I now refer to the unsatisfactory position of having nearly 100,000 families on the waiting list for public authority houses at the present time. The present rate of construction, about 11,400 dwellings a year, has not proved sufficient to overcome this most serious backlog. The Commonwealth and the States should set a target rate of completing 15,000 dwellings a year, or a 25 per cent increase on the last 5 years, for the three year duration of this agreement. The industry has the capacity to support a building program of this magnitude in the public sector. There are many reasons for saying that we need to build more houses under this agreement. We must eliminate the grave social problem which is a scar on our society. We also need to use this building program as a stimulus to our stagnant economy. We have unused resources, both men and materials. We have thousands of skilled building workers unemployed and it is about time that we got them back to work. A stimulus of this type would have a flow-on effect to other sections of industry- the supply of cement, fibrous plaster and related products, asbestos cement sheets and mouldings, bricks and tiles and other earthenware products, porcelain and terracotta products, glassware, sawn timber, plywood and veneers, other processed wood wall and ceiling boards, aluminium building materials and plastic building materials. In addition to those capital expenditure items, a number of ancillary industries are involved in the supply of furniture and furnishings, light fittings, white goods, cutlery, et cetera. 
It can be argued that what is good for housing is good for the Australian economy. I think that it is about time that our policies were returned to that sentiment because we need this stimulus. If the housing industry is healthy then a great deal of other sectors of industry will be healthy. All honourable members are aware that the industry is under-utilised in all respects. If we examine the advance for housing under this agreement as a proportion of total Commonwealth revenue outlays, we find that it is the lowest proportion for at least five years. In 1973-74, the advance represented 1.79 per cent of Government revenue. In 1974-75, it rose to 2.16 per cent. The figure for this financial year has now fallen to 1.4 per cent.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I again seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a table dealing with this aspect prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805265_46_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. Let me now give further evidence to reveal how the Fraser Government's priority for public sector housing has fallen very substantially. In 1974-75, $385m was advanced to the States by the Commonwealth for welfare housing. Repayments of advances in that year amounted to $19m. An amount of $88m was repaid in interest. Therefore, the net amount available for housing in that year was $278m. That amount, based on the implicit price deflator at constant 1966-67 prices, is reduced to $ 139m. 
Let us now examine the purchasing power of the moneys advanced by the Commonwealth to the States in 1977-78. Gross advances amounted to $390m. Repayment of advances from the States to the Commonwealth amounted to $27m. Interest repayments amounted to $133m. Net funds available totalled $22 9m. Again taking the 1966-67 prices as an indication of the actual real money that is spent on housing this year, we obtain a figure of $79m. This represents a fall in expenditure of 49 per cent between 1974-75 and 1977-78. 1 notice honourable members opposite shaking their heads but I have had these figures checked. With the permission of the House I wish to have a further table incorporated in  Hansard.  It was drawn from Budget Paper No. 7 of 1977-78. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805265_46_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. I have shown in written form the real value of the money for welfare housing this financial year. This is an area of the Australian economy that needs an urgent stimulus and there are social problems facing people who need housing for their families. Our nation as a whole needs this stimulus. We need it to get the work force in the housing industry working again. It is for these reasons that I ask the Government to accept our amendment. I will give further details about the position in the discussion on the agreement when we reach the Committee stage. 
I shall confine my remarks to clauses 6 and 15. Clause 15 relates to the annual report of the Minister. I want to stress how necessary it is to debate the subject of housing each year. Previously, a Bill appropriating funds for housing was introduced each year. The House could debate it. With the present legislation that is not the case. Clause 1 5 states: 
The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after the end of each financial year in the period to which this Act applies, cause to be laid before each House of the Parliament a report relating to (a) the operation of the agreements . . . 
I want an undertaking from the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  that in tabling that report he will make a statement which will allow the House to debate the housing situation. Unless he does that the Parliament will not have the ability to review annually the housing situation in the States. I should like the Minister to give me that undertaking when he replies. 
I now refer to clause 6 which relates to the advances to the States. I remind honourable members who are not paying attention that it is a few minutes before our evening meal. We are in the Committee stage of the Bill. We will deal with the Agreement at some length. Later we will deal with the Schedule to the Agreement. This is the only opportunity that the House will have to express its opinion on the respective clauses of a 
Bill which will stand for the next 3 years. Therefore, I would have thought that more attention would have been paid by honourable members. 
-The honourable member said that he is spellbound. That shows the arrogance of the people who do not live and have not lived in State welfare housing. They have little understanding of the serious problems that exist in welfare housing. That is why we are greatly concerned about this matter. I refer to clause 6 which deals with advances in accordance with an agreement each year. Let me examine the amounts of money that have been made available under the Agreement. In 1973-74, when the Labor Government was in office, $2 1 9m was advanced. That amount represented 1.79 per cent of the overall Government outlays. The following year advances on housing were increased to $385m which represented 2.16 per cent of Government outlays. It can be seen that in 1974-75 there was a substantial increase in advances for housing finance. The amount of money being made available this year is estimated at $390m which represents only 1.46 per cent of Government outlays, so there has been a substantial drop in the amount of money being made available in the area of housing in real terms. If we are to overcome the serious problems faced in welfare housing then the Government itself must make more money available. A table I incorporated in  Hansard  in the second reading debate sets out the amounts available and the percentage of overall Government outlays. As I said, in 1974-75 an amount of $385m was made available, repayments on advances amounted to $191m and interest rates accounted for $88m. So a net amount of $278m was provided in 1974-75. Taking into account the inflation level for the 1966-67 financial year, at implicit price deflator levels the amount made available is worth $ 139m. There was actually an 81 per cent increase in 1974-75 on the amount made available in the previous year. 
In gross terms this year an amount of $390m is being made available. After taking into account repayments on advances amounting to $2 7m and interest rate repayments of $ 133m the net funds being made available this financial year total $229m. At 1966-67 constant prices an amount of only $79m is being made available this year. Taking into consideration the decrease in real money terms there has been a drop of about 49 per cent in the amount of money being made available for housing. There has been a decrease in the purchasing power of the money that is being made available for welfare housing as can be seen by comparing the amounts made available for the year 1974-75 and the amount being made available under this legislation. 
It does not matter what Government supporters say. Based on the real value of money today the amount that is being advanced for welfare housing is a deplorable situation. The serious problems facing welfare housing will not be overcome unless this Government makes more money available. That is why I specifically wanted to refer to clause 6 and clause 15. More money should be provided under clause 6. 1 believe also that the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development should give us the right under clause 15 to debate this issue every year so that we can illustrate the shortcomings that exist in welfare housing. This Government's priority in respect of all government spending and all public sector spending has been one of cutting back and the area of welfare housing is no exception. It is a broad POliCY of this Government to maintain Government spending at a minimum. Therefore, those people on low incomes, those people who are living in housing settlements are the people who in the long term will suffer. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
It is very interesting that the bureaucracy which used to give me information and work for me when I was a Minister is now giving information to and writing the answers for the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman). 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)There  is no point of order. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  thinks we live with Alice in Wonderland. I happen to know how things move and how things tick, and I know the efficiency of the bureacracy which used to work for the Department of Urban and Regional Development. The trouble with bureaucrats is that they do not know what is going on within the Cabinet room. Despite all that has been said about the amount provided in the Hayden Budget brought down in 1975-76, it was only 1.67 per cent of overall government expenditure and was still far in excess of the amount of money made available this year which is 1.46 per cent. 
The overall strategy and our intention when we framed that Budget in August 1975 was that if building had not lifted in the private sector, if unemployment worsened in the construction or in the housing sector, we would stimulate public sector housing in the second half of 1975-76. I say to my former bureaucrats and to the honourable member for Kingston that they should look at the amount of money that was made available in 1974-75 Budget under the Labor Administration. It was not $385m; it was a much lower amount. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who was then the Minister for Housing, joined in consultation with myself and the then Treasurer to seek an additional amount of money because if men and materials were available we would make more money available. Therefore we were not bound in. The then Minister for Health, now the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  endorses my remarks because he was a member of Cabinet. We said at that time that if the private sector had not picked up and if both men and materials were available we would provide that money, and that is what we did. 
All I am saying to this Government now is that both men and material are available. There are many, many thousands of people unemployed. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  this afternoon cited the actual number of workmen unemployed. We have materials under-utilised; we have men under-utilised. It is about time that this Government gave a stimulus to the public housing sector. I am making it quite clear that the actual percentage of government expenditure made available has fallen. It was 2. 1 per cent in 1974-75. If you like to go back even further and look at the relevant figures when this Administration was previously in office, in 1970-71 some $142m was made available for welfare housing and that was then 1.74 per cent of government expenditure. The following year it was 1.76 per cent and the following year it was 1.70 per cent. Those were all years under the administration of a conservative government. Now it is 1.46 per cent. What I am saying is that this Government has given public housing a lower priority. If we look at the total number of houses being built we find that only 7.9 per cent of them are being built by the public sector. When the conservative government headed by  Sir Robert  Menzies was in office, 22 per cent of all housing was built by the public sector. Now, the figure is less than 8 per cent. That is the point I am trying to make. 
I am trying to bring out the fact that this Government has downgraded its contribution to welfare housing as a proportion of public spending even though public spending overall has been cut by this Government. The Opposition is saying that if we are to provide a stimulus for the Australian economy we should provide it through public sector spending, through building public sector housing. As I have said, if the Government adopts our amendment it will increase the amount of money available for housing. It will increase the number of homes being built by the public sector, from 1 1,400 to at least 15,000. That will represent an increase of more than 25 per cent. The economy can take it. It is an under-utilised economy. The building industry is an under-utilised area of the economy. It needs a stimulus. There are 100,000 families on the housing commission waiting lists. The young honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman),  in his pious way, put forward the proposition, on a statistical basis, that we are meeting these needs. I ask him to look at the number of houses that are being built. Why is it that in 1955 the Government was able to build 18,000 when the population was much smaller? 
Now we have the situation in which the Government is building less than 12,000 homes a year. The honourable member for Chapman has said that fewer migrants are coming to Australia, but never before have there been so many people on the housing commission waiting lists. There are 100,000 families waiting for homes. How long will it take for them to be housed? 
It is important that attention is drawn to clause 6 and to the fact that more money should be made available to the public sector. The Australian Government should make more money available to the State governments so that they can meet the housing needs of the people of the States. That is what the clause with which we are dealing is about. The young honourable member for Kingston put forward fallacious figures and misinformation. He demonstrated a lack of understanding of the bureaucracy. 
He comes in hook, line and sinker. I know what the bureaucrats do. The honourable member for Kingston should have the wisdom, when speaking about bureaucracy, to say - 
-I know it is all right for the honourable member for Kingston to put that view, but we are a political party and there are political aspects of this matter which he does not understand. He should become wiser in this matter before he gives information such as that to the Parliament. I am asking the Government, under clause 6, to make more money available to the States so that they can build more houses. Secondly, I believe that the matter should be reported each year to the Parliament. 
-This sub-clause reads: 
The rates at which rents are payable by tenants of rental housing shall be determined by the State which when making any such determination shall have regard to a policy of generally relating rents to rates of rental on the open market. 
This is important because it deals with rebates on market rentals. As a result rents will rise and this is what prompted us to move earlier that a person with an income up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings should not pay more than 85 per cent of the rate cf rental on the open market but that those earning above 135 per cent of average weekly earnings could pay market rentals. We feel that this is a reasonable proposition because this legislation poses grave difficulties for people earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings, or around $270 a week. That may seem a lot but if those people are living in Sydney and Melbourne and are forced out of Housing Commission rental homes they will find it extremely difficult to get a loan to purchase a house and in many cases will find it extremely difficult to afford the rent asked on the open market. 
Let us consider a loan of $35,000 to purchase an average home in the western suburbs of Sydney, and a similar situation would apply to Melbourne. Metropolitan Sydney and Melbourne are the two crisis areas in Australia because they are where most of the people live. A person earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings would find it extremely difficult to meet the repayments of a loan. The average price of house and land in the western suburbs of Sydney is $35,000. These people therefore would have to get a loan of $30,000, but most people with incomes up to $270 a week would not be able to meet the criterion that repayments on the loan be no more than 25 per cent of their monthly earnings. For that reason we believe that it would be better if the Government accepted our suggestion that people earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings should pay only 85 per cent of the market rental, and that those people earning in excess of that should pay market rentals. We know that already the rental rebate system is of growing concern but it will be of more and more concern because the States are being forced by the Commonwealth to move their rents upwards. 
Let me give honourable members some idea of the extent of this. In Queensland in February 1978 rents rose on average by 42 per cent over their level 19 months previously. This was the result of most significant increases in the number of tenants receiving rebates and, therefore, in the total cost of rebates. From the end of September 1977 to the end of April 1978 the number of tenants receiving rebates grew from 3,500 to 5,800, an increase of 66 per cent. The annual cost of rebates rose from $2.4m to $5. 75m, an increase of 140 per cent. The proportion of rented dwellings which attracted this rebate rose from 23 per cent to 41 per cent. The philosophy behind this agreement is to try to raise revenue within the State housing commissions and to some extent- I am not knocking this- it is a commendable proposition because if the housing commissions can build the basis of their revenue it will be a good thing. However, the provisions of the legislation in this respect are a little extreme. Honourable members know that today there is a problem with people who want to buy their own homes because in most cases they have to buy on the open market. Families with a single income of up to $270 a week find it extremely hard to purchase a home. The effect of this legislation will be to place enormous pressure on those people. It will force them out of housing commission homes and out of the private market. They will find it extremely difficult because of the artificial market rental which exists. It is a phoney situation. 
What is the situation with regard to market rentals? It is a false market. Due to the economic policy of the Government there has been not much private sector investment in rental housing. In many cases, particularly in metropolitan Sydney, flats that were available for rental have now been subdivided and are being sold on strata title. There is a problem in cities such as Canberra, in State capital cities such as Sydney and other cities which absorb a great number of young people from the country. These people band together in groups of three or four and sometimes more and come to the cities after they leave school. They pool their  income  and rent a home. That rental is then an artificial rental and it forces up rentals generally. All this is being done on the open market and a phoney private market rental is achieved. We find then that rentals for public sector housing are forced up to that level. I know that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  is not responsible for housing in the Australian Capital Territory, but in Canberra last Sunday there was a strong protest meeting held against government rentals being increased. The Government, which is in charge of rentals in the Territory, did not merely move to encourage the States; it showed them the way. Nowhere in Australia has any authority increased public rentals more than the Fraser Government has done. 
Rentals in the Australian Capital Territory come under the administration of the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  I have a Government flat in Canberra. I am not saying that I cannot afford the rental increase but I am in that sector which earns above 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. Under this Administration, I have seen my rent go from $80 a month to $ 1 72 a month in the last two years. The same situation is occurring for people renting houses from the State housing commissions. This Government is saying that the Agreement was entered into by all the States, but the Government forced them into it. The rational position is that people earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings should pay not more than 85 per cent of the market rental. People earning above that amount should pay the full market rental. 
-I would not disagree with a lot that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  has said. However, I think he is one who is inflexible in insisting that the Government moves to market rentals. I am saying clearly that there should be some protection at an intermediate level. That protection is not there at the moment. If people are forced into higher income brackets, there will be difficulties. I know that the Minister does not live in metropolitan Sydney or metropolitan Melbourne, but he has to catch up with a lot of these things, such as the social problems that exist in those places. There are grave problems. 
-I am glad that the Minister has lived in Melbourne. But things have changed greatly there particularly after the blunderings of the land problems that occurred in Melbourne. This caused rising land prices and rising housing costs in Melbourne. In most of the areas of Melbourne now, a person is lucky to be able to buy a new home for $30,000 or $35,000. The same situation applies to the western suburbs of Sydney. It is a very difficult area as regards social amenities, living conditions and so on. People who live several miles away from a railway station still have to pay $35,000 for their house. To get a loan to buy a home costing $35,000, probably over a 25-year period they have to pay in excess of $270 a month. Most people cannot manage. I know that there was a built-in protection once in this housing sector to the effect that people borrowing up to 85 percent could register for a Housing Commission loan and people borrowing up to 95 per cent could get a loan through the terminating building societies, or through the advanced section of the Home Builders Account. But that situation has now been wiped. The onus is now on the States. The States now have to determine what the means test will be as regards the Home Builders Account if they get a loan from the terminating building societies. They can vary it if they make an application. 
I am making a plea on behalf of a great number of people who live in areas where most of the housing is being built in Sydney, and particularly in the western corridors of metropolitan Sydney and the south-western corridor, that people in that income bracket, and in housing commission homes, not be forced out on to the private market. Mistakes have been made, and I am not saying that they have been made only by the Australian Government. They have been made by other governments as well. The private rental market in Sydney is at an extremely artificial level. It will take a long time and intelligent policies to get it down. In my view, it is the Government which is being inflexible. In principle, we are not disagreeing with the revenue that can be accrued to these public housing sectors. If they can gain more, well and good. But one of the problems we have to face is that if more people, say those able to pay the market rental or a reasonable market rental on housing commission homes, are forced out, somebody with a lower income will come in in their place. 
This means that more and more people will be paid a rent rebate. That means there will be a greater burden on this public housing sector. That is the thing about which I am concerned. I know that the Government Whip is in an extreme hurry to get this important piece of legislation through this chamber. But we have to speak now. It is the only opportunity we have to deal with this Bill. 
Sub-clause 18(1) agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  question is: 
That the remainder of the clause be agreed to. 
-Sub-clause 18(2) reads: 
Rental rebates are to be granted to tenants who are not able to afford the rent determined in accordance with subclause ( 1 ) and the Commonwealth and the States will jointly seek ways of establishing a uniform approach to the calculation of such rental rebates. 
I do not want to go over the arguments  which  I have just put forward to honourable members, but the position that we put forward is that the Commonwealth Government should meet the costs of rental rebates to a minimum uniform level agreed to jointly between the States and the Commonweath Government. It seems to me that it is a rational proposition. The Australian Government meets welfare payments in all other avenues. So why does it not meet such payments in the case of housing? I know that the argument has been advanced by honourable members opposite that this proposition was put to the States. I know that this proposition was put to the States and that the States rejected it. But what the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  did not say was that the Commonweath sought to increase the rents for welfare housing to the long-term bond rate. After all, it is not unusual for those on the conservative side who hold that philosophy to take that point of view. Prior to 1972 there was a period when rents were related to the long-term bond rate. I feel that the Commonwealth should take up this proposition. 
Again I ask the Minister to give serious consideration, now and in the future when reviewing this Agreement, to the Australian Government meeting the costs of rental rebates in a uniform way. Under the present Agreement pensioners in different States will be left with a different amount of money on which to live after paying rent. Some States will not be as sympathetic and understanding as others to pensioners or people who are entitled to rent rebates. There will be variations between the States. I believe that there should as least be a uniform minimum rebate. If the States wished to pay a greater rebate it would be easy for them to do so. 
I want to relate my remarks to clause 25. In part it states: 
The rate of interest that is charged by the State in respect of so much as is for the time being outstanding on a loan to an agency of the State for the purposes of paragraphs (c), (e) or (f) of clause 24 shall . . . 
The clause then provides that the rate of interest will be not less than 5 per cent and that it will increase half of one per cent each year. Basically I feel that this increase is too steep. I should like to see more flexibility in the clause. I think that agreement should be reached and that the Commonwealth should not insist on the steep increases. The Commonwealth itself could be more flexible. It should not stipulate that the increase should be one half of one per cent at the end of the first financial year and that it should increase one half of one per cent each year to one per cent below the long-term bond rate. The States should determine what interest rate they are able to offer on loans. There should be flexibility. I understand that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development has worked out some different schemes. For instance, instead of the interest rate on loans commencing at 5 per cent plus three quarters of one per cent for administrative costs, in some cases people earning between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of the average weekly earnings may be able to commence a larger loan at a higher interest rate. The package deal might then be a better proposition. I understand that the Department has thought through such propositions and that it will be putting them to the States. All I am saying is that instead of an arbitrary increase of half of one per cent each year there should be some flexibility across the board. In the long term this would be better. I know the principle that the Government is trying to keep in mind. It is extremely difficult for people to get a foot on the rung of the ladder of home ownership. It has become more difficult each year. It is for that reason that I feel that the amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion for the second reading of the Bill was a reasonable proposition. 
I will make my remarks brief. It is important in debating an important Bill such as this to mention the death of Alex Ramsay, a former general manager of the South Australian Housing Trust for nearly 30 years. We on this side of the House express our gratitude for the work carried out by Alex Ramsay. He served under many governments in South Australia including the Playford Government, the Walsh Government, the Hall Government and finally the Dunstan Government. Everyone who has been involved in either housing or urban and regional affairs knows the great service that he has given in every aspect. It was my great privilege when I was a Minister in the Whitlam Labor Government to appoint Alex Ramsay as  chairman  of the Australian Housing Corporation. In 1972 Alex Ramsay was the  chairman  of the Habitat Committee which presented Australia's case to the Habitat conference at its meeting in Vancouver in late 1972. He was also a member of the South Australian Land Commission. On behalf of all members of this House I pay respect to the public service that Alex Ramsay has given in the fields of housing, Region use and urban affairs. The sad thing is that he died such a young man at 63 years of age. On behalf of this side of the House I express to his family our sincere sympathy. 
-The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  has emphasised that he was being responsible. I think this is probably one of the most irresponsible decisions that has been taken. The Minister knows, as anybody who has been to the Alligator Rivers Region knows, that no matter what they do and no matter what amendments are brought in, the mining of uranium will destroy that area and that environment. Not only that; the whole lifestyle of the Aboriginal people living there will also be destroyed. These amendments are seeking to white-wash the problems that exist but no amount of white-washing will hide them. It will be a grave tragedy not only for the area that is directly affected but also for the inter-related areas. As the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has said, we on this side will oppose the legislation at all stages. We will join with people in opposition to the mining of uranium. 
This is going to be an extremely long struggle. It is far from over, I believe the Government's whole policy will be fraught with problems as it goes on because it has not been well thought out. It has departed in so many ways and in so many principles from the report of the Ranger inquiry both environmentally and from the point of view of the principle of sequential development. 
Mines will be able to develop but irrespective of whether that is done by Pan-continental or by Ranger, they will both be struggling because there is a great deal of economic pressure and competition as a result of the dwindling world market for uranium. We know that internationally the nuclear power industry is in grave difficulties because of the cancellation of proposals for new nuclear power stations. The latest fear of the Uranium Mining Companies is that the industry might go ahead with the fast breeder. If some countries do go ahead with the fast breeder, the amount of uranium now needed to drive conventional nuclear power stations may not be needed. So on all fronts there are problems for this Government on such an important issue, and this amendment that the conservative forces of the Northern Territory are supporting in an effort to uphold their sovereign powers, is only another small concession to those conservative forces. 
I feel that in the long term the thing that will defeat uranium mining in this country and in other countries is the whole economic situation in the northern hemisphere. We know that whereas there was exponential growth in the 1950s, the 1960s and the early 1970s, there has been a flattening out of the world economy and there is not now the same demand for energy. As a consequence, even nuclear component companies like General Electric and Westinghouse of the United States, which supply 90 per cent of the world nuclear component industry, are in difficulties. The one thing that will defeat the whole business of uranium mining in this country is the economic situation in the northern hemisphere. The question of greed arises. There will not be the expected profits in it. Even the cost of building a nuclear power station is becoming so expensive that it is becoming extremely difficult to meet. The real costs in the nuclear power industry must be considered. Take, for example, the cost of enrichment. Instead of the cost of enrichment being paid for and subsidised as a part of the war machine, the real economic cost will have to be borne by the nuclear power stations and it will make nuclear power so much more uneconomic compared with other forms of power generation. 
The real cost of the disposal of nuclear waste must be taken into account. What will be the cost, even if we find a safe way to dispose of nuclear waste? What will be the cost to store nuclear waste for at least a quarter of a million years? This Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  are confused. What did the Prime Minister say when dealing with this question of nuclear waste? He said that there was no problem in storing nuclear waste. At the same time he said that the Government's policy was opposed to reprocessing of nuclear waste. Those who know anything about this issue know that the first thing to do with the so-called waste disposal proposition- vitrification- about which the Prime Minister said there is no problem, is to reprocess your nuclear waste. You have to take out the plutonium. You have to take out the unused uranium. If you did that, then if it was safe you could put it into vitrification. But the Government has said that it is against reprocessing of its nuclear waste, so even if it sells our uranium to any country it has not agreed at this stage to allow reprocessing. Therefore there is no answer to the question of nuclear waste disposal. 
Even if there were, what would be the cost involved? Let me examine the situation in the United States. The United States has 74 million gallons of toxic liquid waste that it does not know what to do with. The United States has not recycled it yet. 
The honourable member asked where I got those figures. They are available in the official documents, if he wants to know. I can inform him that 74 million gallons is the amount of toxic liquid waste from war experimental plants in the United States. The United States once had three reprocessing plants but they have all been closed. There is no answer to it in the richest country in the world. That is their real problem. Recently a congressional committee brought down a report which warned against the dangers of nuclear waste. Yet our Prime Minister says the problem of nuclear waste has been solved. These are the unresolved problems. These are going to be tremendously costly economic problems for those people who want to continue with nuclear power stations, if they can. 
In the long term I believe that the moral issue will certainly stop it. The environmental aspect should stop it. 
The Aboriginal question in this country should stop it. The young honourable member who interjects should consider the third recommendation - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The Committee is considering amendments. Admittedly it has been a little hard to keep up with the paper work involved. The proposal has to do with supervising scientists who consult with the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and the Director of Territory Parks and Wildlife and matters pertaining to that. I wonder whether the honourable member might get closer to the amendments, as we have set aside the Bill already. 
-I accept your guidance,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but in the whole question of nuclear relationships everything is interconnected and the whole purpose of the Supervising Scientists is to try to make the environment a better place to live in. All I am saying is that interrelated with the environment is the fact that the third recommendation of the Fox report was that the nuclear power industry and uranium mining was interrelated with the whole question of the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and that in itself is a threat. We opposed the second reading of these Bills. We opposed them at the third reading. We are opposed to the mining of uranium in this country. 
-The Opposition has been disturbed about the whole question of the appointment of the Supervising Scientist. The proposed amendment relates to the conditions of that appointment or to the conditions under which he is to work. The situation is that the Supervising Scientist was an employee of the Atomic Energy Commission. People who are impartial on this issue are greatly concerned about that. I might say that the Supervising Scientist involved himself in the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. At pages 249 and 250 of the second report of the Ranger inquiry we find the following: 
A strong body of evidence demonstrates a widespread lack of confidence in the Atomic Energy Commission as the final arbiter of standards for the proposed mining operations, and as monitor of them. This is in part because it is proposed that the Commission be actively engaged as an entrepreneur, and in part because one of its ordinary roles- 
Supervising Scientist is appointed, his past history and so on, we will be here not only all night but all week as well. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  uphold the Minister's . . . 
-How can the Chair uphold him when it has not yet heard me on the matter? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member has not heard what the Chair has to say yet either. I ask him to resume his seat for a moment. In my view, the Minister is perfectly correct: It has nothing to do with the Atomic Energy Commission. Quite frankly, the Chair does not know anything about the background of the Supervising Scientist. What it knows is that the Supervising Scientist, according to this amendment, consults the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and the Director of the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission and what have you. That is as far as the Chair knows. It is hard for the Committee because perhaps we are learning more about the relevance as we go along. We must try to be relevant. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I thank the honourable member for Melbourne Ports for his help to the Chair in this matter; but because the Supervising Scientist is a man, does not mean that we can discuss everything that men do. I would be horrified if the honourable member were to think me too narrow in any way, but the Chair must be at least more narrow than lj the honourable member's liberal interpretation. I call upon the honourable member for Reid. 
-The whole point that I am trying to make is that the Supervising Scientist concerned was an employee of the Atomic Energy Commission. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I think the honourable member has made that point. 
He did give evidence before the Ranger inquiry. I am trying to quote the words of the Commissioners on that subject. I think that it should be heard by the Committee. It will take but a few words to finalise the quotation. I repeat, there is disquiet on the part of people who gave evidence about how impartial they would be if they were involved in the business of uranium mining. The position of the Supervising Scientist was not advertised. He was appointed internally, by the Government. We know that there has been a struggle within the bureaucracy; that the Department for Environment, Housing and Community Development in many cases lost out to those under the administration of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the growth sector. This is why there is so much disquiet about this appointment, about the role of the Supervising Scientist. It is for that reason that I draw the attention of the Committee to the remarks that I have made. The quotation concludes: 
. one of its ordinary roles is the promotion of uranium mining and nuclear development generally. 
That is a reference to the Atomic Energy Commission. An ex-employee of that Commission is involving himself in this position of the Supervising Scientist. There should be great disquiet about the whole attitude that is being adopted. More should be known about the problems that have occurred within the Government. The position of the Supervising Scientist should have been advertised nationally. Because of the grave, unresolved problems relating to the environment in the area concerned, the gentleman in question should never have been put in that position. One has only to read the first and second reports of the inquiry to realise the grave, unresolved environmental problems that remain in the area, and the grave responsibility that the Supervising Scientist would have. That is why there is so much disquiet on this side. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call on the honourable member for Hughes. 
-Most of the amendments to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill are not being opposed by honourable members on this side of the chamber, but we do oppose amendment 2 to clause 4. That amendment reads: 
Land in the Northern Territory, other than land in the Uluru (Ayers Rock-Mt Olga) National Park or in the Alligator Rivers Region as defined by the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Act 1978, shall not, without the consent of the Territory, be acquired by the Commonwealth for the purposes of this Part if it is land that is dedicated or reserved under a law of the Territory for purposes related to nature conservation or the protection of areas of historical, archeological or geological importance or the area having special significance in relation to Aboriginals. . . . 
We are greatly disappointed in that amendment. The Government might have noticed that we on this side of the chamber took a different position in relation to the six Bills which were previously before this chamber with respect to this matter. We did not oppose the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill when it was previously before this chamber, although we did seek to amend it at the second reading stage because we wanted to see the creation of a Kakadu National Park. We also wanted to amend another Bill, which dealt with Aboriginal land rights. Even though we had certain criticisms about those two Bills we did not oppose them outright. 
We are concerned that we have seen a whittling down of the functions of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service by this Government. Whenever the interests of nature conservation and national parks have clashed with other interests- whether they be the development interests of States, the bureaucratic interests of Federal departments or the interests of developers, especially miners- this Government has put national parks last. This amendment constitutes another body blow to the National Parks and Wildlife Service. This Government has emasculated the whole concept of national parks. It does not believe in the protection of the national heritage for future generations of Australians. We have to make this very clear. The purpose of this amendment is to put an end to the declaration in the Northern Territory of national parks controlled by a responsible and expert national management authority. In fact, if elements of the National Country Party have their way it will mean an end to the declaration of national parks in any real sense in the Northern Territory. I stress that point. 
What does this mean? There is a number of splendid areas of national significance which are worthy of consideration for declaration as national parks to be enjoyed by all Australians. I stress that these areas are not covered by the exclusions in the amendment which I have read. I refer in particular to the MacDonnell Ranges in Central Australia. This is an area of prime conservation importance, an area which conservationists for many years have been putting forward for dedication as a national park, an area of unique beauty and spectacular scenery. This is an area which should be managed for the benefit of all Australians. This should be done by the National Government, by the administration of the National Parks and Wildlife Service under our legislation. However, the effect of this amendment may well be to prevent this area achieving national park status for a long time. It means that local development interests will override national conservation priorities in regard to the future of the MacDonnell Ranges, particularly if any minerals are found in that area. If any minerals are found in that area we can bet our bottom dollar that this Government will exclude that area and that area will be raped and ruptured as has happened to so many other parts of Australia. 
This amendment will introduce particular difficulties when it comes to the protection of Aboriginal land. The past year has seen significant development of trust and understanding between Aboriginals in the Northern Territory and conservationists. A great deal of understanding has been built up between those two sectors of our community. This has been achieved by, on the one hand an understanding by the conservationists that much of the land of conservation significance in the Northern Territory is rightfully owned by Aboriginal people who have shown their skills as conservationists over many thousands of years and, on the other hand, a welcoming by Aboriginal people of the interest of conservationists in the protection of Aboriginal lands. Unfortunately, the same trust and understanding does not exist between the traditional Aboriginal landowners and the Country Party-Liberal Party majority in the Northern Territory. It is in favour of growth. It is not in favour of national parks to that degree. Its members are extremely conservative and reactionary in some cases. This was clearly demonstrated when the Northern Land Council reacted strongly against the proposition that the Kakadu National Park be controlled by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. That is what the Assembly wanted.  Mr Yunupingu, Chairman  of the Northern Land Council, said: 
They have never in the past proved themselves that they are capable of running any parks and wildlife in the Territory. 
Those are his words. He also suggested in relation to Kakadu that the Aboriginal people would prefer to have no national park than to have a national park controlled by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly itself. We will quickly find that the effect of this amendment will be that land of conservation importance throughout the Territory which is Aboriginal land will not become a national park despite the wishes of traditional Aboriginal owners that their land become a national park in the true sense of the term. It will not become a national park because they have no trust in the management authority which is in the control of the 
Country-Liberal Party in the Territory. They can have no trust because of the poor record of the Country-Liberal Party in its attitude to environmental and Aboriginal matters. 
This Government's approach to environmental protection is one of complete ad hockery. It has abdicated responsibility. It has shown that it will sit back and let the States fight amongst each other for development in the absence of strong national guidelines for environmental protection. It is sad to see national conservation priorities subverted by local development interests, particularly in the Northern Territory. This Government is, in short, selling out to the development interests as it wants to sell out to those in the Northern Territory. That is our concern. We will vote against the amendment because of our suspicions and because of the attitude of the Aboriginals towards them. We think that this amendment is a grave, regressive decision. 
I will not keep the Committee long. I should like to refer to the theme which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  was developing. It appears to me that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  seems to think that the States have great sovereign power and that we should not have a great suspicion about the conservative National Country Party and Liberal Party forces in the Territory. 

 - Mr Chairman, I am dealing with the people who will administer this Act. After all, the Country-Liberal Party has a majority in and controls the legislature in the Northern Territory. It is the concern of the Aboriginal people and of people generally across this nation that we should not extend powers to such conservative forces and governments at this stage. Part of the amendment states that land shall not, without the consent of the Territory, be acquired by the Commonwealth. That is clear. It says that action cannot be taken without the consent of the Territory- without the consent of the awful conservative forces that now rule the Northern Territory. Surely we have had sufficient experience. We have seen what has happened at Aurukun and Mornington Island with the conservative forces in Queensland. Why should we not be suspicious about the same conservative forces in the Northern Territory? The Government has sold out the conservation groups and the Aboriginal people. 
The Government has protected itself only insofar as the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga National Park and the Kakadu National Park in the Alligator Rivers Region are concerned. They are the only two areas in which the Government is protected. Henceforth it shall not, without the consent of the Territory, acquire for any purpose any part whatever. The legislation provides that the Government cannot make any decision, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has said. Under this amendment the Government has given away its sovereign power to these people. It is interesting to note that the Minister did not give any details about the concern in regard to using the MacDonnell Ranges as a national park. I give this example: The Government may want to make that area a national park. The conservationists may have the arrangements set up. There may be an agreement with the Australian Government about making the MacDonnell Ranges a national park. What could happen? Some type of mineral might be found there. It might not be uranium, just a rich deposit of some mineral. Members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly have stated that they believe in growth for growth's sake. That would be their policy. Other parts of the Northern Territory are unique and beautiful. 
I had the privilege of being the Minister responsible for setting up the National Estate inquiry and for establishing the Australian Heritage Commission. So I know something about these areas and about national parks and places of beauty that the honourable member for the Northern Territory has seen. It is about time that we in this Parliament had some understanding of the matter and gave some protection as far as growth is concerned. In relation to an earlier amendment I spoke about the struggle going on within the ministries of this Government. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  is one of the very junior Ministers. He is not in the Cabinet. He has no real political muscle. Who are the Ministers with the real muscle? The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  who is a National Country Party Minister certainly has an enormous amount of influence on the questions of and decisions on whether there shall be growth or whether mineral mining comes before national parks. We have to start to equate these matters. With a unique, beautiful place we sometimes have to make the decision whether to mine. I instance that great historical judicial decision of  Mr Justice  Hope who had to determine whether to permit the demolition of the angophora forests in order to mine the $56m worth of wolfram underneath. Of course  Mr Justice  Hope made the decision that those angophoras could not really be valued. The same situation may occur in other places of great beauty.  Mr Justice  Hope led the inquiry into the National Estate, and I am pleased that a man of his calibre is now  chairman  of the Heritage Commission of New South Wales because we need sensitivity, understanding and men of foresight to protect our heritage. 
This amendment shows a narrowness of attitude. It sells out to party politics. It is the little men with power who have the control of the parties opposite. The Government parties are controlled by enormously conservative people. The National Country Party elements have certainly made particular Liberal members toe the line and it is about time some of the young backbenchers, who I know are men of principle, stood up to these awful conservative forces that are squeezing them out. The Opposition did not want to oppose all these amendments, but in view of what has happened in Committee, I think that when the vote is taken it will have to oppose everything. 
-Let us look at what we are debating. We are debating amendments 1 to 5. We are debating whether or not the States or the Commonwealth have certain powers. In August of last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wrote to all the States and said that the Government was going to try to bring in uniform codes of environment protection for uranium mining throughout Australia. Between August 1977 and 10 April this year there was no relationship between the Commonwealth and the States on this matter of nuclear codes. There was no meeting between the Australian Government and the States. The State Premiers were alarmed, when they read a Press report the week before the legislation was introduced into this House on 10 April, that the legislation would contain certain conditions. There had been no consultation at all. During Question Time on 10 April I directed a question to the Prime Minister. I might say that I received information from a certain quarter in South Australia. I asked: 
Did the Prime Minister write to the South Australian Premier in August last year saying that there would be full consultation with the States in developing uniform legislation for the mining and export of uranium? Is it a fact that there were no discussions with the States prior to the announcement last week that Bills concerning uranium would be introduced into the House today? Is it also a fact that there has only been a last minute agreement to have discussions today with the States in regard to this matter? Is this an example of the Fraser Government's policy of cooperative federalism? 
The Prime Minister answered in these terms: 
It is the policy of the Government to have discussions with the States in relation to the development of codes in this particular matter. I believe that the arrangements that are being made will give the States full opportunity to express their views. 
The legislation was passed by the House of Representatives. When the legislation went into the Senate a rebellion occurred when six National Country Party senators said that they were going to cross the floor and vote against the legislation or move certain amendments to the legislation. If the Labor Party senators had voted with them they would have defeated the legislation. Let us put the matter in perspective. I should like to read to the chamber clause 5, which is the basic clause with which we have to deal. It is also the clause with which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  dealt. It states: 
Regulations shall not be made in pursuance of sub-section ( 1 ) or (2) for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, a code of practice in a State unless the Governor of the State has requested the Governor-General to make regulations for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, that code of practice in the States. 
That means just what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said it means: That the real power of deciding the codes of practice for uranium mining outside the Northern Territory or any other Commonwealth Territory certainly is in the hands of the States. In other words, the codes of practice for uranium mining at, say, Mary Kathleen will be a matter for BjelkePetersen, and at Yeelirrie in Western Australia they will be a matter for Premier Court and his colleagues. They are the people who will determine the codes of practice. 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  What do nuclear codes mean? Nuclear codes in relation to nuclear activities mean: 
the mining (whether by underground or surface working or recovery of any prescribed substance or any mineral containing a prescribed substance; 
b) the production of any prescribed substance; 
the milling, refining, treatment, processing, reprocessing, fabrication, enrichment, storage, handling, transportation, possession, acquisition, abandonment or disposal of- 
any prescribed substance; or 
any mineral, or other matter, that contains a prescribed substance; 
the use of any substance, mineral or matter referred to in sub-paragraph (c) (i) or (ii), including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, use in the production of nuclear energy; 
the construction, operation or decommissioning of a mine, plant, facility, structure, apparatus or equipment used in, or in association or connexion with, any operation or activity referred to in any of the preceding paragraphs; 
Let us examine the definition of 'prescribed substance'. Prescribed substance embraces plutonium and all actinides as well as the fission products which make up nuclear waste. I ask honourable members to think about this matter seriously. We in this chamber are now giving the States the right to determine that they can in fact have control over nuclear waste- a matter that will have enormous implications for the whole of this country not for a few years but for at least a quarter of a million years. This is a very difficult and dangerous situation. I am asking the Committee to examine the facts. I have referred to what was contained in the original Bill. What are nuclear activities? The fact is that 'prescribed substance ' does mean nuclear waste. It includes plutonium. That creates the serious situation. 
In the few minutes I have available to me to speak I should like to examine this situation. This Government brought in certain legislation and when the pressure was put on, what happened? It folded to the most reactionary forces within the Government parties. That showed who really has the power. The Government also has taken other action. It has adopted certain safeguards. It has said that it will sell uranium to certain countries but that certain safeguards have to be observed. For instance, one safeguard states that there will not be any reprocessing, because after reprocessing plutonium and unused uranium can be extracted. If there is pressure on the Government because it cannot sell uranium overseas, will it give in? Will it submit to those governments which say 'We will not do certain things. We are not prepared to meet your stringent safeguards'? We have seen this Government give in to the State Governments. What will be the situation when it has to deal with governments whose national pride is involved? Do honourable members think that those governments will allow the Australian Government to impose its stringent conditions? Even if they did, what about those stringent conditions? Honourable members opposite have said that the left wing of the Labor Party really controlled the formulation of this policy. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the Australian Labor Party's policy on uranium which was formulated after a broadbased discussion? 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

ALP POLICY ON URANIUM 
Conference recognises that the provision of Australian uranium to the world nuclear fuel cycle creates problems relevant to Australian sovereignty, the environment, the economic welfare of our people, and the rights and well-being of the Aboriginal people. 
Labor believes, that having regard to the present unresolved economic, social, biological, genetic, environmental and technical problems associated with the mining of uranium and the development of nuclear power and in particular- 
to the proven contribution of the nuclear power industry to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the increased risk of nuclear war; 
the absence of procedures for the storage and disposal of radioactive wastes to ensure that any danger posed by such wastes to human life and the environment is eliminated, it is imperative that no commitment of Australia 's uranium deposits to the world's nuclear fuel cycle should be made until: 
a reasonable time has elapsed for full public debate on and consideration of the issues; 
the Australian Labor Party is satisfied that the abovementioned problems have been solved; and 
the Australian Government endorses Recommendation 6 of the First Fox Report, which states: "a decision to mine and sell uranium should not be made unless the Commonwealth Government ensures that the Commonwealth can at any time . . . immediately terminate those activities, permanently, indefinitely or for a specific period. " 
Accordingly, 
Labor declares a moratorium on uranium mining and treatment in Australia, 
Labor will repudiate any commitment of a non-Labor Government to the mining, processing or export of Australia 's uranium, and 
Labor will not permit the mining, processing or export of uranium pursuant to agreements entered into contrary to ALP policy.' 
MINERALS AND ENERGY-RESOLUTION 
Existing Contracts 
With respect to presently existing contracts, in the event of Mary Kathleen being closed down by the company or as a consequence of shortfall from this source, Labor will not allow any new mine to be opened in order to honour those contracts, but will assist in arranging for the final discharge of obligations under those contracts from overseas sources, as outlined in the First Fox Report. 
Moved: T. Burns 
-i thank the Committee. Our policy was formulated after broad-based discussion. The branches of the Australian Labor Party formulated our policy on uranium. That is why the policy is so firm, and that is why we are standing by it firmly. 
-My remarks will be brief. I know that time is limited because another piece of legislation is to be brought in tonight. I just want to make it perfectly clear that the legislation clearly provides that the States will have the power of veto in respect of nuclear codes. I am concerned about the implications of the nuclear codes. I read from the document on nuclear activities when we dealt with an earlier amendment. It is quite clear that the States can do anything with the uranium. They can store it, mill it, refine it or do anything at all with it under this legislation. This is the disturbing factor. I am aware of the reserve powers of the Commonwealth in regard to customs and exports but there are great implications involved. In the third recommendation of the first Fox report it was stated that the nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry yet this Government is giving authority to the States to have control over uranium. 
The other point that I want to make quite clear is the Labor Party's position on this piece of legislation. We decided as a party to oppose the motion that the Bill be read a second time. We moved certain amendments. The original Bill was much more beneficial to this country than it will be with the amendments which are being forced on the Government by the reactionary elements in the Northern Territory and some of the States. The Opposition will vote against the Bill at the third reading stage because its clearly stated policy is as follows: 
Labor believes that having regard to the present unresolved economic, social, biological, genetic, environmental and technical problems associated with the mining of uranium and the development of nuclear power . . . 
Labor declares a moratorium on uranium mining and treatment in Australia, 
Labor will repudiate any commitment of a non-Labor Government to the mining, processing or export of Australia's uranium, and 
Labor will not permit the mining, processing or export of uranium pursuant to agreements entered into contrary to ALP policy. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. I remind him that on 2 May I asked him a question in relation to an in-depth analysis of, or a prepared paper showing, the short term and long term implications for the Australian economy in relation to uranium mining and export. The Treasurer, in his reply, intimated that he would make inquiries as to whether Treasury was making such inquiries. I point out to the Minister that I asked that question almost a month ago and therefore he has had at least that time to make such inquiries. I now ask the Treasurer: Has Treasury made that in-depth analysis? Has Treasury prepared a paper showing the short and long term implications for the economy resulting from uranium mining and export? 
-Regrettably I will take a few moments, but I will keep my remarks brief because I know that in this House the Grievance Day debate presents precious time for back bench members to express their criticisms of the Government. My remarks will be extremely brief. This statement was brought in following a lengthy debate in the House on the uranium legislation. Hasty amendments were introduced because six National Country Party senators in another place indicated they intended to move certain amendments. If those amendments had been moved the Labor Party would have joined with those six senators and defeated certain legislation. It is to those hasty amendments which were introduced into this House on Monday and Tuesday that the whole crux of this statement is directed, because now we will not have a uniform code for uranium mining across the nation. 
The decisions in relation to nuclear codes in particular and also the environmental standards to be set will be made by the States and not by the Australian Government. In the case of Yeelirrie in Western Australia, the standards will be set by the Western Australian Government. Similarly, if there were new finds in Queensland, the standards would be set by the Queensland Government. Of course the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  is trying to reassure us in his statement that there will be standards. At page 4 of his statement, he says: 
The export of uranium is presently controlled under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations of the Customs Act 190 1. 
Uranium exports are prohibited unless a certificate in writing under the hand of the Minister for Trade and Resources, or an officer duly authorised by him, is produced to the Collector of  Customs.  This will continue. 
The Government is trying to give an assurance that it will use this power to influence the States to toe the line. That is the situation. There are two other brief points that I wish to clear up and to answer clearly. At page 5 of the statement, the Minister says:   . . ensuring adherence to the policies of Australia in relation to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the application of safeguards against the use of uranium other than for peaceful purposes. 
The whole basis of this uranium business has to be made clear. The Government runs away from it on every occasion. Recommendation 3 of the first Fox report states, in part: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
That is the situation. The situation is that this Government has not faced up to the fact that while it mines uranium without the appropriate safeguards on the world scene, it is contributing to a nuclear war. The Government knows that and has no solution to the problem. 
The other question that remains unresolved is that of nuclear waste disposal. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  say that the problem of nuclear waste disposal has been solved. They know that it has not been solved. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  asked about the Government's policy in regard to reprocessing nuclear waste. The Government is leaving its policy on this matter vague. In the early stages, it said that it would support  President  Carter in his policy which was against reprocessing nuclear waste. But the Government knows that if it stands by that decision, and it does not allow reprocessing, there is no way of storing the nuclear waste. On the other hand if the Government wants vitrification it will have to allow reprocessing. This system of storing nuclear waste by vitrification is an untried system. But in doing this, we then enter into a plutonium economy and the Government's policy would be in opposition to that of  President  Carter. 
The last point I wish to nail is this so-called energy crisis. The Minister persistently uses the words 'energy crisis'. There is no crisis in energy throughout the world; the crisis is in the shortage of liquid fuel. In no way would uranium mining or a nuclear power industry assist in the liquid fuel crisis. In fact the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development sees this socalled 'energy crisis' around the world as a magnification of the energy problem. We can point to the OECD estimates on nuclear generation of electricity in OECD countries for 1985. Let me first of all refer to a survey carried out in 1 970. At that time the estimates predicted that 600,000 megawatts of nuclear generated electricity would be needed by 1985. In 1976, the first Fox report predicted that 400,000 megawatts would be needed by 1985. But by May 1977, OECD estimates predicted that the need in 1985 would be 225,000 megawatts- a decline of 44 per cent on last year's estimate, or a 60 per cent reduction overall over the last seven years' estimates. The basis of these predictions is that with the world economic situation an exponential growth is no longer going on. There is a levelling out of the world economy. There has been a fall in the demand or need for energy in the world. Frankly, I think it is madness- if I can use that term- for this Government to proceed with uranium mining in Australia when so many problems remain unresolved. That is what the Labor Party has been saying all along. Our policy is a policy of sanity. It is a policy which seeks time to solve unresolved problems. The honourable member for Blaxland also raised the question of the environmental problem in the area in which this uranium mining is to be carried out. It is one of the most beautiful and delicate areas in the whole world. The question of the treatment of the Aboriginal people in that area has been very hastily dealt with indeed. There is also the unresolved problem about proliferation of nuclear weapons. There is the unresolved problem of nuclear waste disposal. 
It is to the great shame of this Government that it is proceeding with such haste. Also it is acting in a completely irresponsible way by introducing this statement. The Government has stupidly agreed to amendments, under pressure by ultra-conservative forces in the Government. I asked in this House on Monday and Tuesday whether, when the Government cannot sell its uranium overseas with its so-called stringent safeguards, it will cave in to countries like Iran, the Philippines and the European Atomic Energy Community, which will not stand by and lose their sovereignty in a bilateral agreement to a small country like Australia. If it gives in to a few conservative reactionary senators who represent the most conservative forces in this country, it certainly will surrender to those countries from which it wants to get revenue from uranium mining. The Government wants to mine and export uranium for greed alone. 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond-Minister for Trade and Resources)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with your indulgence and with that of the Opposition, I should like to answer the very pertinent questions asked by the honourable member for 
Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  They asked why legislation was not being introduced at the moment and why it was being deferred. I should have thought that I pointed that out in the statement. 
The question of appropriate legislation dealing with the export of uranium and the establishment of a marketing authority, or what we will term the uranium export authority, has been examined very closely by our legal officers. Also, opinions are being sought from the United States and from counsel there as to how best that legislation should be drafted to cope with the antitrust laws of the United States. I note that the honourable member for Hawker is well aware of the complications in this matter. We have examined it, but unfortunately the matters have only now been crystallised to the point of making decisions. This has not enabled us time to really consult with the States as to the nature of the legislation and the desirability of this legislation. Until we do that, we feel that it is improper and discourteous for us not to talk with the States, because it does have very severe implications as regards some of the authority and some of the sovereign rights of the States. I hope that during the recess period I shall have an opportunity of being able to discuss with the States the nature of the legislation I intend to bring forward as a forerunner to establishing a marketing authority which can advise the Government on action it should take. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
-by leave-First of all I must congratulate the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I have not had an opportunity of reading the report because it has not yet been made available to honourable members. However, I listened to the remarks of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who presented this statement, which I consider to be enlightened, intelligent and sensitive. It certainly relates many of the policies that we were trying to correlate when we were in government. I have but one strong disagreement with him, and I want to voice it here so that in six months ' time, when the Minister brings down his report, he will make a more in-depth examination of the particular situation to which I refer. The whole question of the inter-relationship of urban programs- and it was good that the Committee brought out this sensitivity- has for far too long been neglected. Not only have the Australian Government, the State governments and local governments acted within their separate little worlds but so too has the Federal bureaucracy. 
The bureaucracy lives within its own boxes, so to speak, and does not inter-relate with other policy makers. I have in mind especially the question of the Department of Transport dealing with the departments that are responsible for land use. As most of the officers who were formerly in the Department of Urban and Regional Development are now in the Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Affairs, I am pleased that the latter Department will be studying this report. 
On the question of population growth, especially in relation to the urban environment, one could argue that it should not be under a special population department but should be part of either the Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development or a department with a similar influence. Population is related to what quality of life is in the urban environment. The former Labor Government's policies were not based on the growth rate of some 1.9 per cent that had  occurred  between 1950 and 1972. If that growth rate had continued we would have had by the year 2000, an increase in the population from 13 million to 23 million. If we had continued that rate of growth our capital cities would have been in an atrocious situation. We argued strenuously that we should aim at a population growth, as a result of both natural increase and immigration, of some 1.1 per cent. The figure of 1.9 per cent comprised 1.1 per cent from natural causes, and 0,8 per cent from immigration. With a population growth rate of 1. 1 per cent we would have had by the year 2000, not 23 million but about 17.5 million. It so happened that that was the estimate given by the Borrie report. I wish to emphasise that Labor's policy was not geared to attaining a population of 23 million by the year 2000, but rather a population of about 17.5 million. We foresaw that if our decentralisation policies could divert some one million people from our capital cities, it would be possible to cope with the remaining growth of 3.5 million in the capital cities; that they could be made rational places in which to live. If a rate of 1.9 per cent had been allowed to continue, even if we had diverted at least one million persons elsewhere, some nine million people would have settled in those cities and that would have made urban living standards atrocious. 
I shall be brief, because I know the House has urgent business to attend to, in dealing with my last point, which concerns what we call rational development of the urban community. The Australian Government can exert an enormous influence on the growth of our capital cities. That influence must be exerted by a planning body which can obtain the co-operation of not only the Federal, State and local governments but also the private sector. Drawing upon my own experience as a Minister, I recall that when it was possible to bring the property section within the administration of the Department of Urban and Regional Development, it made available a weapon, if one wants to use that term, that was an enormous influence. It is on this aspect that I disagree with the Committee's recommendation. One did not have to go through the bureaucratic wrangling that goes on. At least the Commonwealth properties were under the administration of the body that was also responsible for the urban environment and urban planning. Instead of building skyscrapers to house 15,000 Commonwealth employees in places like Woolloomooloo, as had been planned by the bureaucracy of the Department of Administrative Services, as it is now, we would have put them as a first stage development in places such as Parramatta, and then at other centres such as Campbelltown. Instead of proceeding with the Spring Street development in Melbourne, we would have had developments at places like Sunshine, Broadmeadows and Dandenong. Then the transport investment could be correlated with the rational development of major cities. 
My last point concerns what the honourable member for Scullin  (Mr Jenkins)  has said. Interrelated with this is the fact that, in dealing with the private sector, the Australian Government has an enormous influence in deciding where private investment will be made in relation to the urban environment. It has enormous control over insurance companies, which have in fact distorted the make-up of our capital cities by overdeveloping the central business districts. By persuasion, by discussion, and by looking at the whole metropolis, rather than just looking at the central business district of our cities, we could achieve more rational development. The Federal Government has enormous control over foreign investment also. I must commend the Committee upon its sensitivity, upon the belief that there is need for inter-relationship between not only the three tiers of government but also between them and the private sector. I will be very pleased to read the report in full. 
by leave- The recommendation in the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure with regard to administration is a very sound one. When the Defence Service Homes scheme came under the responsibility of the Australian Housing Corporation, the then Government looked at this question of administrative costs. They were quite high, as the report points out- $ 1 6m a year. Page 7 of the report shows that even though at present there are 1,046 positions there are, in fact, only 967 staff employed. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  mentioned government revenue and that when public expenditure is spent, it should be spent wisely. I think there are many ways in which we could cut down on the administrative cost of war service homes. Certainly when I was the Minister responsible for this matter, the late Alex Ramsay, who was the  chairman  of the Australian Housing Corporation reported to me personally that many savings could be made in the administration costs of war service homes. I commend the Committee's report for its concurrence in this regard. 
I wish to warn the House about this proposition of an optional grant. Anyone on either side of the House who has ever been in Cabinet knows that for years Treasury has been trying to do away with this subsidised proposal of 3% per cent interest. For instance, during Labor's term in office, Treasury put forward proposals that we do away with the 3% per cent interest rate and increase the rate to one per cent below the long term bond rate. That request was refused by the Labor Administration. We also know for a fact that such a proposal was approved in Cabinet by the present Government but was later overruled by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  So we have this situation where Treasury wants to do away with this concessional rate of interest. As has been pointed out, this concessional rate of interest has been maintained for a very long time. We raised the amount of the loan from $9,000 to $12,000 but still retained the interest rate at 3% per cent. However, when we further increased the amount of the loan from $12,000 to $15,000 we increased the interest rate on that $3,000 increase to  7 1/4  per cent. 
I also want to warn the Government that that $5,500 cash grant in lieu of the subsidised interest rate will not be enough to bridge the deposit gap to enable most people to purchase a home in the western suburbs of Sydney or metropolitan Sydney or Melbourne, where, on average, homes cost between $30,000 and $35,000. Even with the $2,000 homes savings grant scheme and the $5,500 grant- I take it people will be able to receive both- people will still have great difficulties in purchasing their home. 
I wish to give some facts about the grant, if people opt to take it, and the effect that inflation will have on it at today's prices. At today's prices, $5,500 represents about 1 8 per cent of the price of a $30,000 house. At an inflation rate of about 4 per cent per annum over 10 years, the value of the grant will be about $3,720 in today's prices, or only  2Vi  per cent of the house price. At an inflation rate of eight per cent per annum over 10 years, the value of the grant will be about $2,550 in today's prices, or only about 8te per cent of the house price. Like the homes savings grant scheme which has been eroded by inflation, this grant proposal will be seen in a similar situation. Therefore I warn the House against accepting this proposal because it is a long term attempt by the bureaucracy to do away with this concessional interest rate of 3% per cent available to defence personnel. 
There is another aspect at which this Committee and the House must look as regards this Defence Service Homes scheme. If there is anything we should be considering it is the question of a means test on applicants. We should be considering whether or not a colonel can get a loan as well as a private. It seems to me that this question of the means test would be a much better proposal to look at when dealing with this defence services homes proposal. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  The Income Tax (Arrangements with the States) Bill 1978 represents the second stage of federalism. The whole philosophy of the Fraser Government is to transfer the taxing powers to the States and, of course, to local government. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  just said that he believes that local government authorities should increase their charges to their ratepayers. He forgets that many people in local government areas are over taxed at the moment; they cannot afford to pay any more. I refer particularly to those people who live in rural areas. In his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said: 
The broad purpose of this Bill is to enable each State, if it so chooses, to legislate to increase its revenue from personal income tax or to give- at a cost to the State- a rebate on personal income tax to residents in the State. 
I hope to prove that if the States are to maintain the standards that they have set and to catch up with the backlog of capital works, particularly those concerning urban environment, it will be necessary for them to increase the taxes they impose, because they have been starved of funds by the Federal Government, particularly over the last two years. This afternoon the honourable member for Petrie presented a report on behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation which had looked into the matter of urban environment. I read that report this afternoon. It is a credit to this Parliament and to honourable members on both sides of the House. In its report the Committee deals with the interrelationship between the urban environment and the necessity to maintain services; with the need to inter-relate services if we are to have a better urban environment. I hope to prove also that in every area with the exception of one in relation to which I have already commended the Government, the Federal Government has drastically cut back expenditure. It has cut back expenditure so drastically that in some cases the services have been eliminated completely. 
I cite as an example the backlog in the sewerage program. In that area alone, during the three years of the Labor Government, an amount of $250m was made available to the States to catch up on their backlog. Because of the debt burden which had been created between 1950 and 1972, there was a backlog in the sewerage programs in most cities. For instance, only 50 per cent of homes in Perth were sewered. The remainder were unsewered. In the case of Melbourne and Sydney, at least one in seven families were in unsewered homes in the 1970s. During those 20 years, that is, from 1950 to 1970, the sewerage authorities had enormous debt burdens but the internal debt burden of the Commonwealth remained almost static. State debts increased sixfold. Local government debts increased by 2,000 per cent while the debts of sewerage authorities increased by 2,700 per cent. Authorities in Perth had to pay something like 52c in each dollar collected; in Melbourne, it was 58c in each dollar; in Sydney, it was 52c in the dollar; in Newcastle 53c in the dollar and in Brisbane, over 50c in the dollar. That means that for every dollar collected by way of these charges, the authorities had to pay back that amount just in interest repayments. 
The Labor Government tried to work in cooperation with the States, try to reach an understanding so that the States could improve the urban environment and State infrastructure to bring them to a higher standard. Of course there was a hue and cry that this was centralism. I have said over and over again that when I was the Minister for Urban and Regional Development there was no confrontation with any State authority. At all times we sought a co-operative way of solving urban problems. The only way in which to do so was with the three levels of government- Federal, State and local- working together in a co-operative way. That was the spirit at the time. But again propaganda was peddled to the effect that money was being poured out from Canberra. In regard to the question of money for sewerage authorities, we were generous to the extent that in the last year of our term of office, for instance, we paid out $ 1 1 3m to the States. Thirty per cent of that money was by way of non-repayable grant. The other 70 per cent was made available at the long-term bond rate of interest repayable over 50 years. 
The situation now is that the whole of the sewerage program has been cancelled. That program has to be financed by semi-government authorities. The grant component has completely vanished. Further, those authorities have to finance the program at an interest rate at least one-half to three-quarters of a per cent above the long-term bond rate. The Labor Government's terms were for repayment over about 40 years. Now the longest term they can get is 15 to 20 years. What does this mean in the long term? It means that the ratepayers themselves have to pay higher charges. It is an additional indirect tax on the taxpayers. 
I turn now to the overall situation as regards the treatment of the States by the Fraser Government over the last two years. Let us look at the effect that this new federalism- when I talk about federalism, I mean Fraser 's federalism- is having on the financial  resources of  the States. It is necessary to take into account all payments, not just those covered by tax sharing. If we consider all payments to the States through the Budget, we find that they have not kept up with the inflation rate in the last two years. For example, in 1975-76 net payments amounted to $8,477m. In 1977-78 the estimated net payments were $9,98 1m, an increase of 17.9 per cent. In the two years to the December quarter, the implicit deflator for all public expenditure increased by 20.4 per cent. This means that the States would need an additional $230m to restore the level of funding in 1977-78 to the same level in real terms as in 1975-76. 
Alternatively, let us look at the situation from the consumer price index point of view, as some Government supporters are wont to do. In the two years to the March quarter, the CPI increased by 23 per cent. Therefor the States would need about $450m to restore the real level of funding from the Commonwealth in 1977-78 to the levels of 1975-76. Expressed as a share of the gross domestic product- another way in which we can look at this matter- total payments amounted to 11.9 per cent in 1975-76. In 1977-78 the estimated share fell to 1 1 per cent. In other words, it fell by almost one per cent. The Government would have to provide another $800m this year to restore the share of GDP to the levels of 1975-76. 1 repeat: We would have to provide another $800m this year to restore the share of the GDP to the level of 1 975-76. So it is obvious that by any measure one may choose to use, the States have become worse off under Fraser's new federalism. Loan Council payments have been cut by 10 per cent in real terms during the last two years. I wish now to give some details in regard to urban programs. I have a table which sets out figures by way of real terms for 1975-76 in a percentage form. These programs have been cut more than any other programs. So that people may be clearly informed of this situation, I seek leave to have the table incorporated  in Hansard. 

 Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197806013_92_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197806013_93_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. Let me refer to growth centres which at that time came under the administration of my Department of Urban and Regional Development. We made provision for this expenditure in our 1 975-76 Budget which covered the year in which we were defeated. In terms of 1977-78 money values, expenditure on growth centres in 1976-77 was reduced in that one year period by 58.1 per cent in real terms. However, over the two-year period from 1975-76 expenditure was reduced by 82.5 per cent in real terms. A similar situation applied in respect of urban rehabilitation where the corresponding reductions in expenditure were 58.2 per cent and 77.1 per cent in real terms. The same can be said regarding urban flood mitigation programs in relation to which the relative reductions in expenditure were 5.9 per cent and 35 per cent in real terms. The honourable member for Petrie should be aware of this because most of the money was spent in Brisbane. 
In addition, the new Liberal-Country Party Government abolished our area improvement program for which, in the last year of our Administration, we made $l7m available. Our proposed expenditure in regard to the land commissions was reduced by 9.6 per cent in real terms in the one year period to which I have referred previously to 23.2 per cent in real terms for the two year period. A similar situation applied in regard to the program of sewerage works for which, in the last year of the Labor Administration, we made $1 13m available but the Fraser Government, in its first year of office reduced that amount by almost one half to $50m. This year the Government has eliminated that program. The only urban program that has been extended- I commended the Government earlier in regard to this- is the urban public transport program. In the one year period to which I have referred earlier, the allocation was reduced by 2 1.9 per cent in real terms but this year the allocation has been increased by 20. 1 per cent. The only way that the States can carry out those urban programs and maintain their standards is by increasing income tax or indirect taxes. That is the basis of this legislation. A Minister intimated that funds to the States for public expenditure would be cut this year. He could not have made such a statement if he had not had the authority of the Cabinet to do so. If the States have to increase their taxes to pay for the increased burden that is being thrown on them by Fraser federalism the Government will say that legislation has been passed which will enable the States to meet their commitments. 
It is about time that people at the grass roots level, the taxpayers, understood what Fraser federalism is: If they really want improved services they will have to pay for them themselves. The honourable member for Petrie said that local governments can increase their rates. People are saying that if the States want to increase their services they can do so by increasing income tax. They will have the power to do so. This is the basis of the new federalism.  Mr Fraser  says that if the States want responsibility they can pay for it. We think there is a different way. This was set out in the report by the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation which was tabled today. It talked about the interrelationship that is necessary between the three levels of government if we are to have a better environment. That is what happened when the Department of Urban and Regional Development existed. There has to be a rational plan for the nation as a whole. There has to be co-operation between the Australian Government, the State governments, local government and the private sector. The major part of the funding should come from the Australian Government. Overall planning by the Federal Government in cooperation with the other two tiers of government is the best way to develop rationally our urban communities and State services. 
-I am glad for that interjection by the honourable member for Denison. Those parrots on the other side of the House have been saying that so often. I spoke to a local government authority this week. It was agreed that the Department of Urban and Regional Development was anti-centralist. It was seeking greater authority for people at the grass roots level in the regional sphere. Real centralism does not occur only in Canberra. It occurs also in the capital cities such as Sydney, Melbourne and Perth. Their base is always in the central square mile of the business district. The real administrative and economic power lies within that area. If we are to overcome that problem we have to encourage people in regional and local government areas to play a greater pan in the decision-making process. 
There were positive aspects in the area improvement programs. They were local government programs based on the concept of regionalism. There was a spirit of co-operation in the decision-making process. It is only on that basis that that process can take place. Again, I refer to that spirit of co-operation between the three tiers of government. But the basic revenue raiser should be the Federal Government and there should be a greater sharing of that revenue. I believe that the arguments of the honourable member for Gellibrand should be supported by this House. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 April 1978: 
1 ) How many Australians were prisoners of war of the Japanese in Nagasaki when the atomic bomb was dropped in 194S. 
) How many of those prisoners of war who were in Nagasaki in August 1945 (a) are still living and (b) have died of leukaemia or other causes which may have been inflicted by the Nagasaki atomic explosion. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I want to protest tonight on behalf of the residents of the Glebe Estate about the increased rents that are being charged by the present Government. The Glebe Estate was purchased by the Whitlam Labor Government in 1974 for an amount of $ 17.5m. There are basically three reasons why we purchased that estate: Firstly, to protect the residents living within it; secondly, to protect a townscape which' was more than 100 years old; and, thirdly, to stop a proposed freeway from going through it. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
I raise tonight the matter of the savage rent increases in the Glebe Estate in Sydney, New South Wales. This estate was purchased in 1974 from the Church of England by the Australian Labor Party Government. It consisted of 750 properties and was purchased for approximately $17.5m. In 1974-75, $1.5m was spent on maintenance and renovation by the then Labor Government and a further $500,000 was added to that figure in that year. In the following year, a further $2m was spent on  maintenance and rehabilitation. In 1976-77, the first full financial year of this Government, only $1.2m was spent. This year the Government has made available $ 1 .5m. 
The rehabilitation of this area has been undertaken at a very slow rate. Many residents in the area are living under appalling conditions. I will cite an example of the savage rent increases that are being imposed. A rent notice which was received by a tenant in the area stated: 
A new rental policy for the Glebe project has been determined by the Government. 
Rents for dwellings in the Project will be set at market levels, with rebates being available to families on low incomes. 
Full details of the rent policy and eligibility for rebates are contained in the attached Information Bulletin No. 22. 
I seek leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT 
GLEBE PROJECT 
INFORMATION BULLETIN No. 22 
New Rent Policy 
There has been no general increase in rents for dwellings in the Glebe Project since it was acquired by the Commonwealth Government some 4 years ago. 
The Government has decided that rents in the Project are to be set at market level. This policy is in line with rents for other Commonwealth dwellings and is also being adopted by the Housing Commissions in the States. 
Rebates will be available, as at present, to families on low to moderate incomes. 
The increases in rents are to be spread over three years. After discussions with the Residents Advisory Committee, it has been decided that for the first year, the increase in rent will be a maximum of $8.00. In the second year the increase will be a maximum of $9.00, and a maximum of $10.00 in the third year. 
As requested by the Residents Advisory Committee, all houses on the Estate have been reassessed for current market rentals. 
The new rents will be due and payable on Monday 5 June 1978. 
Tenants who are currently entitled to rebates will not have their rents increased, nor will tenants who are currently paying market rents. 
The market rent has been assessed for each dwelling on its present condition. Any improvements that may have been made by the tenant have not been included in the assessment of the market rental. 
The market rent for each dwelling will not be reappraised until three years hence, except in the case where a dwelling is substantially rehabilitated. 
Where a tenant is dissatisfied with the rental assessed on a dwelling, the tenant may request a revaluation. The tenant should write to the Project Office requesting a revaluation with reasons to support the request. 
Rebates 
Rebates, calculated on the formula used by the New South Wales Housing Commission, are available to tenants on low to moderate incomes. 
Rents for a single pensioner or a pensioner couple, whose only income is a Commonwealth aged, widow, invalid or war disability pension, will not exceed 18 per cent of the gross pension. 
For other tenants, the weekly rent will not be more than 20 per cent of the combined gross income of the tenant and spouse, plus $5 for each resident in the dwelling who receives a gross income of $25 or more .per week. 
If you feel you are entitled to a rebate, you should contact  Mr Peter  Hughes at the Project Office and complete an Application for a Rebate form.  His  telephone number is 660-1722. 
Rebates commence on the Monday following the approval by the Project Office of the completed application form. 
Cases of Hardship 
Where tenants, due to circumstances beyond their control, would have extreme difficulty in meeting in full the increase in rent, the tenant should have no hesitation in contacting the Project Manager. 
O. SAVIMAKI Project Manager 
May 1978 
-I thank the House. The letter continues: 
The market rent on the dwelling tenanted by you has been assessed at $60 per week. 
YOU WILL NOT BE REQUIRED TO MOVE TO THE NEW RENT IMMEDIATELY. 
For the first year, your weekly rent will be you present rate of $23.00 plus $8.00 for a total of $3 1 .00. 
Honourable members will note that that is a 33V4 per cent increase in one year. The letter further states: 
The new rental becomes due and payable on Monday 5 June, 1978. 
In relation to the question of the rents that have been charged, I cite an example which was brought to me of a woman whose house has not been rehabilitated is at present paying $18 a week. She has been told that the new rent will be $48 and that she will progress in stages to that rent over three years. At present there has been no rehabilitation work on or no betterment at all for that house. When we purchased these homes from the Church of England, they were run down. Many of them are still run down. 1 ask members of Government committees to go with the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  to have a look at these houses. In many cases they are in an appalling condition. The rehabilitation work started by our Government has been continued by this Government at a very slow pace. 
The main point to which I refer is the manner in which these rent increases were carried out. A public meeting was held which the honourable member for Sydney, I and 500 other people attended. I am telling the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)-  I am glad he has now come into the House- that amongst those 500 people great fear and lack of security prevails. The attitude and the hypocrisy of the public servants concerned and, I am disappointed to say, the attitude of the person in charge of these matters at Glebe are bad. I know that the Minister has deferred the rent increases for one month only. But basically a basic lack of understanding on the part of the Australian Government exists. I have no time to argue here the whole question of market rent but, as honourable members know, this issue has been inflated to false importance. I dealt with it in the Housing Bill. The market rental is at a quite false level. Therefore, I believe that there has to be a great deal more understanding of the problem. I believe that any person whose house has not been rehabilitated should not have to pay any increase in rent until such time as that house has been rehabilitated. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that Australia's underlying level of foreign reserves- that is, excluding official borrowings and gold revaluations- has fallen in each of the last five weeks and that in the last 40 weeks increases have been recorded only 1 1 times? Is it also a fact that in the same 40 weeks the Australian dollar has been devalued by stealth by 4.8 per cent and that contracted borrowings by the Australian Government have amounted to more than $2, 000m this financial year alone? To overcome the weakness of the balance of payments problem, does the Government intend further to devalue the dollar by stealth and to seek more loans overseas? If so, what is the target that the Government has set forks borrowing programs overseas? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1) Is the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation in which Australia is a participant considering the possible establishment of international nuclear waste repositories. 
Has the possibility of the establishment of an international nuclear waste repository in Australia been discussed at International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation meetings or during bilateral discussions between Australia and potential customer countries for Australia 's uranium. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in the Department of Social Security and statutory authorities under the Minister's control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will the Minister implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed by the Government to give effect to the recommendation of the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry that consideration be given as soon as possible to the resumption of the Goodparla and Gimbat pastoral leases for inclusion in the proposed Kakadu National Park. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in the Department of Administrative Services and statutory authorities under the Minister's control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will the Minister implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate, the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implications of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in the Department of Science and statutory authorities under the Minister's control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will the Minister implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
What arrangements are made in the AttorneyGeneral's Department and Statutory Authorities under the Attorney-General's control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will the Attorney-General implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
-I move: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted- 
to maintain the present eligibility of members of the Defence Services for housing finance from the Defence Service Housing Corporation; 
to permit Parliament to maintain adequate scrutiny of the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme; 
because it introduces a fee for consideration of the application for a loan for the first time, thus increasing the cost to the applicant; 
because it introduces a discriminatory preference system between those with eligibility based on war service, and 
because increased funds should be made available to restore the decline of 50 per cent, in real terms, over the last 3 years '. 
The Defence Service Homes Scheme is one of the longest standing programs dealt with in this Parliament. The Scheme originated form legislation passed in 1918, some 60 years ago. Since the inception of the Scheme approximately 340,000 people have been assisted to own their own homes. The Scheme has been a very fine one and it certainly has been well administered by the authorities over the years. More than 1 80,000 of the loans granted are still being repaid. In fact, about $69m of the $79m that is being made available this year in the current Budget really came from either principal or interest repayments. The gross outlays on assistance since the inception of the Scheme have exceeded $2,000m. 
The principal purpose of this Bill is to amend the Defence Services Homes Act 1918 to implement decisions taken by the Government in the context of its deliberations on the 1977-78 Budget. I stress that the legislation is based on decisions made in relation to the 1977-78 Budget; that is the Budget of last year. The Government is now taking some action on those decisions. Later in my speech I will deal with the necessity to regard the defence service homes area as a part of the overall housing industry. I believe that we cannot divorce any section of the housing industry from the whole at this important stage of our development. 
Let me deal with the amendments proposed by the Government in this legislation. The first matter to which I refer is the qualifying period that a member of the Regular Defence Force has to serve before he is eligible for a defence service home loan. One of the decisions announced at the time of the 1977-78 Budget-I stress again that this was the Budget delivered a year ago, not the Budget we heard presented last Tuesday night- was the intention to extend the qualifying period to be served by members of the Regular Defence Force in order to be eligible for a defence service home loan. Persons who commenced full time service in the Defence Force on or after 17 August 1977 will become eligible for a loan on the completion of six years continuous full time service, subject to a commitment to render further full time service. I stress.the words 'on the completion of six years continuous full time service'. The new eligibility conditions may be applied to those who begin their service on or after 17 August 1977. They do not affect the eligibility conditions that apply to those who were serving before 17 August 1977. We are quite aware, and we concede, that those people who were serving before that date are still eligible to receive a loan after a qualifying period of only three years continuous full time service. This provision, which was introduced by the Labor Government, is to be watered down, and I will deal with this point in greater detail later in my speech. 
Let me now turn to the second proposal. By the proposed insertion of a new section 27b in the principal Act the Bill will permit the Defence Service Homes Corporation to give a measure of preference in the allocation of loans to those whose eligibility is based on war service. I know that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  will plead that the Government has made a statement about that. I will deal with that matter later in my contribution. 
The third proposal in the Bill is to charge a fee on loan, applications. This is the first time in the history of the Defence Service Homes Scheme, or the War Service Homes Scheme as it was known for many years, that a fee has been charged on an application. I think it will cost a applicant $75 just to make an application. I now turn to the fourth proposal. Since the commencement of the scheme in 1919 insurance cover has been provided under the Act in respect of dwellings in which the Corporation has an interest. The terms and conditions of the cover are contained in the Defence Service Homes Act and Regulations, with the result that amending legislation is required before even a minor change can be made. The Bill amends the Act to authorise the Corporation to provide insurance cover under the terms set out in the statement of conditions. 
The fifth proposal is the recognition for the purposes of the Defence Service Homes Act of de facto relationships. This will bring the Act into line with other Commonwealth legislation and the practice of lending institutions. Consistent with the requirements of other Commonwealth legislation to ensure that there is a substantial degree of permanency in the relationship before benefits are granted, the Bill requires the de facto association to have been in existence for a continuous period of not less than three years before it will be recognised. The amendment will place a de facto spouse or widow of an eligible person in the same position as a de jure spouse or widow. It will enable a de facto spouse to be joined with the eligible person in the security, make a de facto widow eligible for a loan in her own right and enable certain de facto widows to be granted relief in respect of commitments on their property under the same conditions as those applicable to de jure widows. I am glad to see that the Minister in particular is coming out of the dark ages and that the legislation is being brought into line with other Commonwealth legislation and practice. I do not commend the Government very often, but I am pleased that it has made this humane decision in what has been a very difficult situation for a number of people. As I have said, I commend the Government on this aspect of the legislation. 
The sixth proposal concerns clause 9. This amendment is intended to overcome a problem whereby the Corporation, in the absence of a court order, is unable to distribute the balance of proceeds arising from the sale of a property as mortgagee in possession in joint tenancy cases where the joint tenancy has not been severed and one or more of the joint tenants cannot be located. You will note,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that we are not opposing some aspects of the legislation. We realise that some proposals in the legislation are necessary because of the need to satisfy administrative arrangements. But there are strong reasons why we should oppose some of the other provisions in the legislation. For example, paragraph (e) of our amendment states:  because increased funds should be made available to restore the decline of SO per cent, in real terms, over the last 3 years '. 
Such a decline is appalling. This Government encourages a 'wear our badge with pride' mentality. This Government says that it will stand loyally by our ex-servicemen and women. Yet it is this Government which for the first time in our history will tax repatriation pensions in the same way as any other income. It is this Government which we have seen decrease in real terms by over 50 per cent in the last three years the amount of money made available for defence service homes. In 1975-76, $122m was made available for defence service homes. In the year before, 1974-75, $130m was made available. At that time the men and the material were available- as they are now- to enable homes to be constructed. Under a Labor Administration we made sure that the men and the material were available. That did not add to inflationary pressures. Honourable members opposite know that to be the case because at that time such action was needed to stimulate the economy, as it is now. 
What is the situation now? Expenditure on defence service homes has dropped to $7 9m this year compared with an expenditure of $90m last year. Not only does this decision represent a cutting back in expenditure of about $10m; it also adds to the waiting time for ex-servicemen and other people who are eligible for defence service homes. It extends the waiting period from 11 months to 14 months. In addition, in many cases the building of new homes will be deferred. If these homes were built it would help to stimulate the economy and get people into employment. We want to emphasise quite clearly that we are totally opposed to the expenditure cuts and to the hypocrisy of the Government as a whole when it states that it is a government which supports those people who served this country in time of war. As I have said, this Government supports and encourages the 'wear our badge with pride' mentality. It is about time the Government showed by its action what it will do for exservicemen and not cut back expenditure in this area in the way that it has. 
There are two other aspects of the matter that I want to mention. I refer particularly to proposed new section 4AAA (1) (a) (ii) which requires a regular serviceman to serve six years' continuous full time service, with a commitment to render further service. Proposed new section 4 AAA ( 1 ) (c) requires an officer to be appointed for a period of continuous full time service of notless than six years. For the first time, the legislation will discriminate between an officer who accepts a career appointment and who may resign at any time and other ranks on the basis of service for eligibility for a defence service home loan. Moreover, the legislation will discriminate between the Services because they have different terms of enlistment. It also discriminates- I want to emphasise that word strongly to honourable members opposite because this is a discriminating Government- between men and women who have different terms of enlistment. For example, an officer who has served six years and one day may be eligible for a defence service home loan. On the other hand, an Army bloke may have to serve nine years to obtain that eligibility. The position for Navy personnel is different again. They need serve only in excess of six years to be released from the Service. Quite clearly, not only is this an act of discrimination; the legislation also waters down the conditions of the serviceman. After all, the servicemen have a role to play. It seems to me that if conditions are taken away from any trade unionist, whether he be working in the blue collar field or in the Public Service, that is a regressive action or a backward action. This action is so regressive that Service personnel who enlisted prior to 17 August 1977 need serve for only three years in order to be eligible for a loan. But those people who join the Services after that date and make an application for loan must serve for at least six years to be eligible. But Army personnel- those men and women who comprise the great mass of the Services- serve for six years in the first case and then they must re-enlist. It is a 'putting a carrot in front of a donkey' mentality. Servicemen and women are being told, in effect, that if they want their home loan they must re-enlist and extend their period of service. That seems to me to be a pretty crook proposal. So far as I am concerned, it is typical of this Government. 
The other aspect of the legislation I want to deal with concerns proposed new section 26B of the Act. Clause 6 of the Bill proposes the introduction of a preference system for those servicemen and women who have war service and also provides for the first time specific authority for imposing a waiting period. The question to ask at this point is: How is the preference system to work? I wish to stress that point. I must say that in respect of preference- whether or not a person with war service should receive preference over anyone else- that the Minister will find himself performing a very difficult role. The Minister stated in a Press release dated 15 August under the heading of 'No war-service preference yet for loans ': 

 Mr Adermann also said that the Government had decided not to proceed with a plan, previously announced, to grant a measure of preference in the allocation of Defence Service Homes loans to applicants who qualified because of war service. 
In the absence of additional funds for the Scheme, preference could have been introduced only through a substantial increase in the waiting period applying to applicants whose eligibility was based solely on peacetime service. 
He said the Government hoped it may be possible at some future date to give preference to those with war service without imposing a penalty on other applicants. 
Of course, that is excluding the 14-month waiting period which exists at present. If that preference is applied, it will add a further waiting time. The Opposition is proceeding with its amendment because the Government is persisting with that provision in the Act. It seems to me that it would be sensible not to insert such a provision into the Act. Quite frankly, under this Administration I would hate to see such a provision put into effect. I have at least another 10 years to serve in this Parliament. I bet that during that time, unless there is a change of government, this provision will remain in the Act but it will not be implemented because the Government will not provide the necessary funds. Of course, the Australian Labor Party has committed itself on the matter and has stated that it will not discriminate in such a way. This Government starves the people of funds. It makes false promises. 
Let me give an example. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  will follow me in this debate. As you well know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  he has been eulogising the Government in respect of the flood mitigation proposal for Toongabbie Creek near Parramatta. What is the situation? The Government has said that it will make available $200m for flood mitigation over a period of five years. In this Budget, the Government has made available $5m. On that basis, I ask honourable members to estimate how long it will take this Government to meet that commitment. This is a government of complete hypocrisy. Again, this legislation contains window dressing proposals. It is my conviction that the commitment will never be met unless there is a change of government. It is a bad principle and, therefore, we intend to express our attitude on it. 
In the few minutes I have left in which to speak in this debate I want to deal with defence service homes as part of the overall housing industry. The Australian Government has direct responsibility for 10 per cent of housing in this country. The Australian Government has direct responsibility for the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement under which welfare houses are built as well as for defence service homes. In the mid-1950s there was a time when the Commonwealth Government made sufficient money available to the States in order to allow them to build 22 per cent of all houses in the community. In other words, more than one house in five was funded by the Commonwealth Government. The position now is that the Government directly supports the construction of only one house in 10. The Australian Government, and this Parliament, has direct responsibility for the whole housing industry. This Government is responsible also for ensuring a ready flow of finance at reasonable terms so that the average citizen can build or buy a home. That is a basic right. 
The housing sector has been hit severely by this Government's restrictive fiscal and monetary policies. Its policy on defence service homes is no exception. For example, as I said earlier, in 1975-76, the last year of the Labor administration, $122m was allocated for defence service homes. In the 1978-79 Budget only $78m has been allocated. That is $10m less than last year. As I said earlier, that is a 50 per cent cut in real terms on the amount of money made available to defence service homes in 1 975-76. 
Defence service homes is not the only area of housing that is under attack by this Government. This Government has ended the home loan interest tax deductibility scheme. That is a scheme under which people on low incomes could claim as a tax deduction the amount of interest they paid on their housing loans. This Government also ended the housing allowance experimental scheme under which house rentals in several parts of Australia were subsidised. That scheme has been done away with. It has slashed the money available for the homes saving grants scheme from $34m last year to $20rh this year. What does that really mean? When a person has qualified for the home savings grant by saving the requisite amount of money and he seeks the housing grant he will be told - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)The honourable member for Reid knows that he should confine his remarks to the contents of the Bill. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I was dealing with the inter-relationship between defence service homes and housing in general. Defence service homes are part of the overall policy of the Government. I was indicating that the Government is as consistent in its policy on the home savings grant as it is in its policy on defence service homes. The Government has failed to meet its commitments. The Government was aware of its commitment this year to the home savings grant scheme. A person who attempts to take advantage of the home savings grant scheme will be told that he will not be able to get money until 1 July 1979. The home savings grant scheme, the war service homes scheme and other housing proposals are inter-related. This is an indication of the inconsistency and the deceit of this Government. The deceit of this Government is revealed by the fact that at least six months ago it knew, as a result of a Cabinet submission, that it would need $76m this year for the home savings grant scheme alone. But what did it do? It made only $20m available. That is the truth. If the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who is sitting on the front bench, cares to read it I will give him a copy of a submission made to Cabinet by his predecessor, now the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman). 
-I am talking about a copy of a Cabinet submission. 
My question follows that just asked but it is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer the Prime Minister to a Cabinet submission dated 31 October 1977 in which the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development claimed that, without a period of waiting time, the appropriation for the home savings grant for 1 978-79 would be $76m. Does the cut to $20m this year for this scheme mean that 37,000 of the 50,000 applicants will not receive a grant this year? Is the Prime Minister aware that those applicants who apply now for  the grant are being told that they cannot get that payment until 1 July 1979? Does the Prime Minister agree that the statement made on the radio program  A.M.  on 16 August, namely, that the change will mean a delay of only a few months in the payment of the money, is misleading at the least? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) What is the extent of Australia 's contribution to the International Atomic Energy Agency, by year and cumulatively, since the Agency's inception. 
What training has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission provided to and received from the IAEA and from bilateral programs with the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementations of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in the Department of Education and statutory authorities under the Minister's control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will the Minister implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 

 -Mr Speaker, budgets are always political documents. But it has been decades since this country has seen such a blatantly political budget as the 1978-79 Fraser Budget. The political nature of the Budget is blatant and it is extremely aggressive. In the last few years in Australia we have seen some extremely aggressive acts on the part of the conservative elite against the working people of this country. We have seen the deliberate destabilisation of the elected Labor Government. We have seen the autocratic elite go after the trade union movement with repressive legislation and coordinated campaigns to weaken organised labour- politically and economically- at a time of great economic upheaval. We have seen an aggressive attack on the wages and living standards of the working people of this country. 
This Government, flushed with success and cock-sure because it has been able so blatantly to attack the working people of this country without any significant mass reaction, has produced a Budget that attacks the people on all fronts. This Budget significantly reduces the social wage by hacking away at public expenditure on health, education, housing, transport, urban and regional affairs and other public services. These public services form part of the total services used by the people. The people have a right to these services. They rely on these services because the private sector is unable or unwilling to provide them on a just and equitable basis. By cutting these services the Government is reducing the standard of living of the Australian people. In this way it is aggravating the deterioration in living standards that has already occurred as a result of its direct cuts in the real takehome wage of the Australian working people. 
This Budget also engages in the dangerous tactics of cutting expenditure on welfare and pennypinching in its expenditure on socially disadvantaged groups. These expenditures serve to soften the blow that capitalism- particularly capitalism in crisis- exerts on the people. Unemployment benefits, sickness benefits and expenditure to Aboriginal communities are the price that capitalism must pay to legitimise itself. It is the price that capitalism pays, through the Government, to alleviate a little of the dreadful human cost it is exerting on a growing proportion of the Australian community. Yet this Government is so arrogant and so cock-sure that it is prepared to slash the size and the cover of the insurance policy for the survival of the system. In doing so it is playing a very dangerous game indeed. I want to stress that aspect. 
This Budget also challenges the broad mass of the Australian people by so blatantly taking from the majority- by that I mean the poor up to those earning around the average wage, which group makes up 75 per cent to 80 per cent of the community- to make resources available to the rich, the wealthy and also the corporate sector. Even the capitalist Press has reacted to the gross inequalities in this Budget and condemns the Government for its measures. 
The indirect tax increases on beer, cigarettes and petrol are highly regressive. The increase in petrol charges, much of which flows to the corporate sector, is highly inflationary and the rise in income tax, despite the fact that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said that it was an equitable 1.5 per cent for everyone, is highly unequal. For the people in the lowest tax bracket the 1.5 per cent increase means that their marginal tax rate rises by 4.7 per cent. For the people in the highest tax bracket their tax rate rises by only 2.5 per cent. What is equitable about that? 
Why was the additional revenue necessary? That is what the House has to ask. That is what the Australian people have to ask. It was necessary because of the revenue forgone and because of the money handed back to the company sector in general and the large corporate sector in particular. 
With this Budget the Government is trying to court international monopoly capital and to pander to its interest. It is doing so at the vast expense of the working people of this country and to the detriment of many of its traditional supporters amongst the small and average-size business and farming sectors. This Government's strategy, as reflected in the Budget, has a consistent and basic plan which is to make Australia attractive to and safe for the large corporations, many of which are transnational corporations, that now control production, distribution, marketing and finance on a global scale. To make Australia attractive and safe for monopoly capital it has demonstrated its ability and willingness to make labour- that is, the broad section of the Australian people- do all the adjusting and pay all the costs as the big corporations re-organise the system to increase their profits and their powers. It has to demonstrate its willingness to downgrade the role of the other sectors of the capitalist class here in Australia. It has to demonstrate its ability to do all this and to control the inevitable reaction and opposition of the Australian people. 
Clearly the Government has demonstrated that it is prepared to serve the interests of international monopoly capital. But it has not had a very sophisticated approach; far from it. Rather the Government has gone overboard in its aggressive stance against the Australian people. It is moving so harshly and so quickly to bring about such a massive shift in resources from the people to the corporate sector that it is posing a very serious threat to the stability of the Australian society and, therefore, to the stability of the Australian economic environment. Foreign investors know this and they are not making significant long-term investments in new risk ventures in Australia. Such private capital inflow that is occurring in this country is going mainly into portfolio investment. 
Nowhere is this Government's eagerness to advance the interests of big interests more blatant and more contemptuous of the interests and wishes of the Australian people than in its attempts to fix up things for the mining companies and the energy monopolies with the commitment of Australia's uranium deposits to the world nuclear fuel cycle. In this year of fiscal stringency the Government can find $20m to start the Ranger uranium mine and it is sending the Australian Atomic Energy Commission off onto the private capital market to borrow another $28m. 
In its rush to override the wishes of the Aboriginal people and to sweep aside the large and growing opposition in the Australian community to uranium mining and export, the Government is desperately trying to lock Australia into the world nuclear fuel cycle. It thinks that it can get new mines open, sink significant amounts of taxpayers ' money into the uranium industry, get new contracts and overseas loans and thereby try to make it extremely difficult for the next Labor Government to implement its policy of keeping uranium in the ground until all the unresolved problems have been solved. But international capital and international markets are not as unsophisticated as this Government. Potential lenders know- they have been warned by Labor's policy and by mass demonstrations of the Australian people- that they will be undertaking a very risky venture if they provide finance for uranium mining in Australia. They have been given clear warning by the people and by Labor's policy which states that the Australian Labor Party will repudiate any commitment of a non-Labor government to open new uranium mines in Australia until all the unresolved problems have been solved. 
It takes more than a pandering, servile government to induce a foreign investment financed mining boom. Despite this Government's efforts to implement such a strategy, it is incapable of bringing it about. It is not only the working people who are disadvantaged. Large sections of the capitalist class in this country are also disadvantaged by the dominated line of thinking in the Fraser-Anthony Government. Many of the Government's traditional supporters in the small to average business and rural sectors are used to the conservative parties protecting their interests. Now they find that they have been abandoned as the Government brings about what it called in the Treasurer's Budget Speech 'a tougher and more competitive Australian economy' and as it panders to the interests and wishes of international monopoly capitalism by, to quote from the Budget Speech again, 'improving overseas perceptions of the Australian economy and its management'. These sections of the capitalist class see their interests threatened by the Government. Many of the more enlightened in their ranks see the dangers that this Government poses to the fabric of Australian society by its harsh attacks on the weaker sections of the community. 
Many people in the business sector now realise that the causes of unemployment are more complex than the simple crass explanation that the Government gives, namely, that real wages are too high. They know that they are being forced to 'get big or get out'. If they decide to 'get big' they take advantage of the investment allowance and all the permanent tax concessions that encourage them to replace labour with machines. Alternatively, they decide to go with the strength and join the transnational corporations as they set up shop in low wage industrial estates in selected Third World countries. If these people in the business sector decide to 'get out' they know that it is not the working people of Australia who have put them out of business. It is the changing global business environment and the increasing dominance of monopoly capital that defeats the small competitive capitalist. 
Many sections of Australian capital are becoming increasingly concerned at the actions of this Government in opposing the interests of its traditional supporters and conducting such a savage attack on the ordinary Australians who are its workers and its consumers. This is the basis of the very widespread reaction against the 1978-79 Budget. This will be the basis of the defeat of this Government and its strategy. 
In the time remaining to me, let me deal quickly with the disastrous Budget measures in the area of housing and urban and regional affairs. The Government's mentality and priority in relation to welfare housing demonstrate clearly that it has set out not only to create great problems within the housing sector but also to aggravate severely the enormous suffering and social problems within the Australian community. Already nearly 100,000 families are listed on the State housing commissions' waiting lists. Half a million Australians are housed inadequately and the resources to relieve this unacceptable situation are standing idle while this Government engages in crass and futile efforts to court international capital. 
This Government has sought out the housing industry in a deliberate attempt to dampen down the Australian economy. Its attack is so brutal that it can be understood only by examining the amount of expenditure on welfare housing as a percentage of all Government outlays. In the 1974-75 Budget $385m was spent on welfare housing, or 2.16 per cent of Government outlays. This year, $330m will be spent on welfare housing, representing 1.1 per cent of Government outlays. But it is not only the expenditure on this section of housing which has been cut. An attack has been made also on the home loans interest tax deductibility scheme. The Government has ended the housing allowance expenditure scheme. The biggest farce of all is the hypocrisy of this Government's proposal to make more money available for housing through the cut in the prescribed assets ratio held by savings banks from 45 per cent to 40 per cent. To give honourable members an understanding of the extent of this hypocrisy, I seek permisison to have a table I have prepared incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197809124_28_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197809124_29_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The table sets out clearly that the Government has made no move to make more money available for housing in this financial year through the savings banks. It indicates the Government's total disregard for the urban living environment of the majority of Australians. But, then, little consideration ever is given to the people by this Government. People are not high on the Government 's priority list. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made by his Depanment and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials, such as paper, metals and glass. 
2 ) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 2 June 1978. 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste material. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
Which countries (a) havebeen supplied with Australia's model nuclear safeguards agreement and (b) have furnished comments on the agreement to the Government. 
With which countries has Australia commenced negotiating the terms of a nuclear safeguards agreement. 
When and where were these negotiations held and what are the names and levels of the officers who represented Australia. 
Has any country agreed to the inclusion of a provision in a bilateral safeguards agreement with Australia that any reprocessing of nuclear material supplied by Australia may only take place with the prior consent of the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government held any discussions with the Canadian Government regarding nuclear non-proliferation safeguards since the announcement of Australia's safeguards policy. 
If so, when and where were these discussions held and what are the names and levels of the Australian representatives who attended. 
What attitude has the Government expressed to the Canadian Government regarding Canada's decision to supply uranium to the European Economic Community without Canadian consent being required for reprocessing. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
-The question that should be asked of the House and of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  is this: Does the building industry need a stimulus? In his own words, the Minister has recognised that it does. He has said that we are going through difficult times. The housing industry is going through a 10-year low ebb and of course it needs a stimulus and needs it now. It is not much good the Minister talking about changing the prescribed asset ratio from 45 per cent to 40 per cent when he knows that at present the ratio is still running at about 52 per cent. Even though in May 1977 it was changed from 50 per cent to 45 per cent, the Minister knows that it is still standing at 52 per cent. We know that this Government used that as a deliberate policy to dampen down the housing industry and to dampen down the Australian economy. That is a direct policy of the Government, and of course the people are paying for it. 
The Minister said that there has been an upturn, according to the figures that have just come out, and that things are going to be rosy. He told us to read this morning's newspapers and said that more money is being spent this year than for the equivalent period last year. Let me give the Minister the facts and figures of the actual number of homes either purchased or built. In July 1977 the figure for new dwellings was 3,81 1 and in July 1978 the figure was 3,599, a decrease in the number of new homes constructed in the equivalent period or a drop of 5.5 per cent. The figure for the purchase of established homes was 7,403 last July and for this July the figure was 7,552, an increase of 2 per cent; but the overall figure for the purchase of new homes and new dwellings was 11,214 last July and 11,151 this July, or a fall of 0.5 per cent. So that the Minister and the House can read the figures more clearly, I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197809135_22_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. In the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and in speeches made by the Minister, the Government has stated that in relation to welfare housing the amount of money made available this year is equivalent to the amount made available last year. That is a deliberate lie. It is a complete distortion of the facts. In the 1974-75 income year, the peak year of the Labor Government, $3 85m was made available. That represented 2.1 per cent of all government outlays in the Budget. This year the Government is making available $3 16m, or 1. 1 per cent of all government outlays. Again if the Minister looks more fully at the amounts of money that were made available this year compared with last year he will find that in 1977-78, $390m was made available and that this year $3 16m was made available. Repayments of advances to the States back to the Commonwealth in 1977-78 were $27.7m and this year will be $30.9m. The interest repayments by the States to the Commonwealth last year were $134m and this year are $ 147.8m. In other words, the net amount of money made available last year under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement was $228. 3m and this year it is $ 137.3m. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said, the real purchasing power is down drastically by more than half. Therefore, I ask again for a table to be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197809135_22_2.jpg"></graphic>

-Nearly 100,000 families are waiting for homes from the Housing Commission and at least half a million people are living in sub-standard housing, and this Government has not only increased the social problems of those elements in the community which need housing and reneged with regard to welfare housing, but it has also reneged on the home savings grant scheme. What happened was that last year for this scheme the Government made available $34m. In a Cabinet submission put forward by the present Minister's predecessor, it contended that another $76m was needed if all applicants were to be accommodated in 1978-79. Let us examine the situation. Last year the Government made available $34m. This year it cut that figure to $20m. The position is  so  grave that young people seeking a home savings grant are told that they have to apply from 1 July 1979. That is a slowing down of the housing industry. Most of the proposals put forward by the Leader of the Opposition to create a stimulus were made by the Housing Industry Association and the Minister knows that they were not inflationary. They were rational proposals to give a stimulus to the housing industry. 
Let me continue further about the sell-out of the housing industry by this Government. It cut back the money for the defence service homes scheme this year by another $10m. What does that do? It means that the waiting time to get a defence service home has been increased from 11 months to 14 months and creates a further slowing down of the housing industry. Still further, in this Budget this Government ended the home loan interest tax deductibility scheme. This was the scheme which helped people on low incomes to claim the interest they paid on house repayments as a tax deduction. Again that was a subsidy, and to people on incomes of around $8,000 a year it was a subsidy of about 2 per cent on their interest payments. But the Government scrubbed that proposal because it was helping people on low incomes. This Government is a class government that represents wealthy people and the corporate sector and not the battlers in the community. Still further, what did it do? It scrubbed the homes allowance experiment. That proposal was again a rental proposal whereby the Australian Government subsidised housing rentals of people on low incomes. It scrubbed that proposal. This is the sorry record of the Government. 
The proposals put forward by the Leader of the Opposition were in no way inflationary. He expressed the view quite clearly that they would increase the deficit by $ 107m. This would be absorbed within two budgets, not in this Budget alone, because he said that it would continue to the end of the 1979 calendar year. The situation is that we need a stimulus to the housing industry. We need long term proposals whereby we can continue the finance to enable people to purchase their own homes. In the western suburbs of Sydney the cost of purchasing land and a home is $35,000. Who can afford that on a single income? A person would have to have an earning capacity of at least $270 a week which would allow him to repay $270 a month, because that is the repayment per month on a loan of $30,000 repaid over 25 years at a 10 per cent interest rate. An income of $270 a week represents about 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. That is the magnitude of the problem. Therefore, we need policies whereby we can have an organisation such as the Australian Housing Corporation which was introduced by the Labor Government and which was abolished by this Government. We need an organisation which could keep the flow of finance moving in the housing industry. For these reasons this Government stands condemned on the crisis it has created within the Australian housing industry. 
I want to express my concern tonight about the decision made today by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It recommended doing away with the quarterly national wage case hearings and, in their place, holding hearings twice yearly in April and October. This decision is a continuation of the practice of stealing money out of the pockets of the Australian workers and transferring it to the private sector that has been adopted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Arbitration Commission since November 1975 has stolen more than $ 1,000m from the Australian workers. Most of this has been transferred to the private sector. It has been transferred from the pockets of the workers to the private sector. The Arbitration Commission's decision will have an effect on the individual. People in receipt of average weekly earnings have lost between $14 and $16 a week because of their not being granted the full indexation they should have been given due to price increases. 
I believe that today's decision and at least another 10 decisions of the Commission during the last three years are so bad that the Australian workers will start to revolt. I believe there will be a great deal of revulsion among the workers as a result of the Commission's decision. The industrial disputes that will occur in the months ahead will have been caused deliberately by the decisions of the Arbitration Commission. These decisions have been a mounting issue. Not only have past decisions failed to transfer the increase in prices to the workers but also today's decision is stretching the period between increases from three months to six months. The workers will have to wait that much longer and will have to meet the price increases that occur in the intervening period. 
I have said that money is transferred from the workers to the private sector as a result of the Commission's decision. At least 75 per cent of the work force is employed in the private sector; the other 25 per cent is in government employment. However if one examines reports of the Taxation Commissioner one sees that more than 200,000 companies in the private sector lodge tax returns each year. Fewer than 400 companies- less than one-fifth of one per cent of all companies- actually earn more than 50 per cent profit. When I say this decision will transfer money from the workers' pockets to the private sector I am talking about the corporate sector and at least half of those are foreign owned. I am talking about the sector that this Government really represents. I have said clearly that this 
Government is a class government. It represents the wealthy interests and the large corporations. 
Pressure has been applied directly and indirectly on the Arbitration Commission. The Arbitration Commission has succumbed to the Government in not implementing full tax indexation and not retaining quarterly hearings. Out of the 10 hearings that have been held since November 1975, in only one did the Commission transfer the full price increases to the workers. That, together with the extension of the interval between hearings from three months to six months, will create many problems and cause industrial disputes. When those industrial disputes occur- when the workers protest against the actions of the Commission- then the Commission will have to face up to the industrial unrest it will have created within this country. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
-This is a very important report. I have had it in my hands since only one o'clock but I have been able to read the recommendations in volume one. I must say that on the whole they are enlightened and progressive recommendations. One would expect that, because of the calibre of the three individuals who comprised the Committee looking into this matter.  Mr Eyers  is a man of great experience not only from his background in banking but also in the housing area. He was the person who set up the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation and was its first  chairman. Mr Keith  Campbell, although coming from the private sector, was one of the more progressive executive members of the Hooker organisation. When I was Minister for Urban and Regional Development in my relationship with him I held him in very high respect.  Mr Ken  Taeuber, who was the  chairman  or a member of the South Australian Land Commission had vast administrative background in the South Australian Public Service before being appointed to that Commission. 
Honourable members have the opportunity not only to read the recommendations but also to read the evidence that has been put forward by those in the housing field. The housing industry is going through an extremely difficult period. It is at its lowest ebb for at least 10 years. Although there has been a hurrah from the Government because it thinks that things are beginning to pick up in money terms, I was able to give the actual figures which show that fewer houses are being purchased or commenced this month when compared with last month. Therefore, in the number of dwellings getting under way, we still see a long-term problem and crisis in the housing sector. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  said that the Government was on the right road. Even in the very brief time I have had in which to read the report I have noticed several points. I refer the Minister to page 6, paragraph 1.1.7, which states: 
Before looking for ways to improve the present situation, the Committee considered a number of short and longer term issues affecting future housing costs. It was felt that: 
In the short term, economic conditions would continue to constrain effective demand. High rates of unemployment, particularly among those who predominantly constitute the new household-forming age groups, and diminishing opportunities for a household to earn two incomes in order to meet the high deposit saving levels and repayment liabilities, were likely to restrain rapid increases in effective demand for some time. 
Yet the Minister says that the Government is on the right road. Here is a statement by these three people of some esteem, of whom I spoke earlier. The report goes on to discuss the problems of the future. It states: 
Possibly prior to improved economic conditions but certainly hand in hand with these, cost pressures should once again appear, as demand for and supply of land and housing approach equilibrium. Because the full increased costs of production (particularly in respect of land and home units) have not been generally reflected in prices in more recent years, . . . 
Again those remarks were made by the three gentlemen who produced this report. Yet the Government says blandly that we are on the right road. I would hate to know what would happen if we get off the right road. I wish the Minister had read the report himself- he has had plenty of time- instead of allowing his bureaucrats to put into his mouth words that he does not really understand. In his statement he said: 
I can assure honourable members that the Commonwealth will not shirk its responsibilities. 
He was talking about the Commonwealth not shirking its responsibilities with regard to housing. What has been the record with regard to housing in this year alone? The Government has cut grants under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement from $390m to $3 16m. Finance for defence service homes has been cut by $10m. In a submission to Cabinet the Minister's predecessor stated that $76m was needed in this Budget if the Government was to meet all applications for homes savings grants. The Government made $34m available last year but it has made available only $20m this year. 
People who are applying for homes savings grants now are being told that they cannot get any money until at least 1 July next year and then only a small number will get any money. 
What else did the Government abolish? It abolished the scheme under which the interest that young people or people on low incomes paid on home loans was tax deductible. That scheme will be abolished completely from 1 November this year. As well, the Government abolished the housing experimental scheme. In fact a great deal of experimentation was being carried out in the Minister's State of Tasmania. This was a rental housing program for people on low incomes. In total this year $160m less than the amount that should have been provided has been made available for housing. But the Minister says that the Government is on the right track. All I can say is that the whole housing industry has grave problems. I suppose that a copy of this report will cost a substantial amount of money and that the normal person will not be able to afford to buy it. It contains three thick volumes with probably over 1,000 pages in all. It will cost a tidy sum for the ordinary person to purchase one of these reports in order to make an examination of it to see what is going on. 
We want to see a public debate on this issue. It deals not only with the question of housing but also with the interrelationship which we on this side of the House have always recognised. Since at least the early 1960s, first of all under  Mr Whitlam  and later when we set up a shadow portfolio of urban and regional development, we have said that housing has to be a part of overall urban and regional affairs. It is also a question of land, finance being continually available for housing, the social problems of how people live, and whether the right cultural, educational and job opportunities are available in the area. Too many problems in that regard have been created in the past. Interrelationship is also necessary within the bureaucracy. Recommendation 2 of the report states: 
Each State should establish a Ministerial portfolio responsible for urban and housing policy in its fullest sense. The Minister would have the primary task of co-ordinating the activities of other related portfolios with responsibility for issues affecting urban needs and the urban environment and for liaison with other levels of government and the private sector. 
In other words, not only the Australian Government but also State governments have responsibilities. There must be an interrelationship, and that is what we have tried to stress. What has this Government done? Not only has it abolished housing programs but also it has cut programs to such an extent that urban programs have been cut back more than any other programs in all the Government's programs. The sewerage backlog program alone has been cut from $1 13m being made available in the last year of the Labor Government from the Australian Government to State governments to not one penny being made available this year. The Government has cut back land commission programs; it has cut back growth centre programs; and it has abolished completely the area improvement program whereby money was made available in order to try to lift up the infrastructure and living conditions in local government areas. The Government has cut back these programs completely. This report makes a recommendation with regard to finance. The Minister talks about looking at page 47 of the report. I suggest to the Minister that he should also examine page 46. Before dealing with that matter, I suggest that he also look at recommendation 20 which states: 
The Commonwealth should introduce a secondary (bulk) mortgage agency as a means of stabilising funds flows over lime and between regions within the constraints imposed by broad monetary policy. 
Of course that recommendation was drawn from the first report of the Australian Housing Corporation which this Government also abolished. That has to be understood because the Australian Housing Corporation was set up to deal with such matters. 
Dealing with page 46, the Minister should realise that what is set out on that page is the average cost of a home- that is, what it costs people to buy a dwelling- and how difficult it is for them to finance it. In Sydney it costs $36,400 to buy a home; in Melbourne, $37,200; in Brisbane, $29,700; in Adelaide, $31,500; in Perth, $33,700; in Hobart, $35,300; and in Canberra, $32,600. Let us look again at the situation as to finance. How can people actually afford to buy a home? That is why the housing industry is at such a low level. There are stocks of houses available which people cannot afford to buy. Why cannot people afford to buy those houses? Take the example of a $30,000 loan, which is a reasonable amount for a person to borrow. Let us suppose that an interest rate of 10 per cent is charged on this loan; and not many people are getting interest rates at 10 per cent these days. A loan of $30,000 at 10 per cent interest repayed over 25 years would involve a repayment of $272 a month. This means that a person would need to be in receipt of an income of at least 135 per cent of average weekly earnings to be able to afford to repay such a loan. However, at least 70 per cent of all wage earners receive up to only average weekly earnings. That is why the situation is so urgent. That is why we need schemes such as the deferred mortgage proposal scheme. We need schemes which will allow young people to get a foot on the rung of the ladder in their effort to own a home. We need schemes that will enable young people to repay a lesser amount during the early years and, allowing for a reasonable rate of inflation of three per cent to four per cent a year, a greater amount in the latter years when they will be earning a greater income. 
I know that I have criticised generally the Government's housing policy. However, when one looks at this report one can see that it contains a great deal of detail and information that we need. People interested in this area will be able to examine the report and I hope criticise the Government generally for not having taken action to overcome the crisis in housing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the book  Uranium on Trial  by Professor S. Butler, Professor Watson Munro and Robert Raymond, and, in particular, to page 89 of that book. 
If so, is it revealed in that part of the book that nuclear reactors become contaminated with radioactive materials with lives of up to 10,000 years. 
Does this mean that the reactors must be destroyed completely when they are taken out of service. 
If so, would this accentuate the yet unresolved problems of uranium waste disposal. 
Is he able to say whether the book claims that the operators of the Oyster Creek nuclear power station in New Jersey want to raise more than $ 100m over the next 26 years to seal the entire plant in a monstrous tomb of concrete and cover it with earth and that this latter-day pyramid will then be guarded for at least 100 years. 
As the book is very strongly in favour of Australia mining and exporting uranium, will he thoroughly examine the serious question of safeguards raised in the book before the Government commits Australia to uranium export and production. 
-Because my time is limited I want to correct three aspects of this matter in reply to the Acting Prime Minister. The first aspect is that the court action is not against the Government. It is between the Northern Land Council and the traditional owners. The second aspect I want to clarify and nail to the mast relates to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Commonwealth Government and the Peko-EZ company. The document, Memorandum of Understanding, states: 
Contracts to give effect to this Memorandum of Understanding to which Australia is, or is to be, a party shall not become effective until Australia has affirmed them following consideration of: 
the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. 
The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry had an enormous impact on the Australian Labor Party. The findings of the Inquiry changed the thinking and attitude of the Labor Party to uranium mining. It is about time those people who are not so bright, including the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  understood that situation. The other significant aspect with which I want to deal is the question of Aboriginal land rights. This Government through legal tricks amended the Labor Party's draft land rights legislation to override the Aboriginal right to veto mining on Aboriginal land. This removed the Land Council's only bargaining power with the Government and the mining company. So let us stop this Government's hypocrisy on these issues. 
The full story of the Ranger negotiations will be written one day. The events of the last few weeks have just begun to reveal the desperate lengths to which this Government has gone in order to force its uranium policy onto the depressed and neglected Aboriginal communities of the Alligator Rivers region. The Government's attitude is clear. It is not going to let anyone- I repeat, anyone- especially deprived and powerless groups of Aboriginal people, stand in the way of the interests the Government represents. Let there be no doubt about the Government's policy. Uranium is mined to line the pockets of a few rich corporations which are represented by this Government and by the two members of the National Country Party of Australia who are at the table. They are continuing to talk. The National Country Party really represents the wealthy mining interests. If a minority community is to be destroyed in the process that is just too bad. 
It is indecent haste by a greedy white minority gorging itself at the expense of a depressed black minority. This Government is pandering to narrow sectional international interests. It is pandering to the international mining cartel, the international energy companies and the international banks. The whole of the so-called Government strategy is the prostitution of Australia to international corporate capital. That is the plank of its Government's policy.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I draw attention to the laughing hyenas of the mining interests who are in the gallery. Strangers in the gallery are laughing and interfering with the proceedings. 
This Government's outlook is so narrow and so single-minded that it is incapable of seeing the enormous damage that it is doing to Australia in the eyes of the people of the world. If it could look beyond the admittedly powerful but narrow ranks of the big foreign investors it would see that the eyes of the world are on Australia. It would see the enlightened people of Europe, of the United Nations and of the whole of the western world. It would also see the people and leaders of the Third World. All these eyes are on Australia and they can and will see the despicable way in which this Government treats the Aboriginal community of Australia. Long after the mining companies are gone Australia will still have to live down, in the eyes of the world community, the awful reputation that this Government is gaining for the nation. 
If we examine the Government's rhetoric about self-determination and giving the blacks a fair go we find that it is hypocrisy in the extreme. It has been a mask for the racist process of behind the scenes manipulation and intimidation. The Government has tried every trick in the book to undermine the position of Aboriginal communities which have consistently opposed mining on their land. It has used public relations tricks with the aid of sections of the media to misrepresent the Aboriginal position and to create the false image that Aboriginals are interested only in the money from mining royalties. The Government has used straight out intimidation in an attempt to beat these scared people into submission. Undoubtedly the Government's most despicable trick has been to seek to manipulate directly from within the operations of the Northern Land Council. 
Let me examine the efforts which have been made to manipulate the Land Council because I think this is where we can see most clearly the mockery which has been made of the so-called policy of self-determination. The office of the Northern Land Council is structured along traditional Department of Aboriginal Affairs lines, with important matters out of the reach of the Aboriginal people. We have to understand the nature of the Northern Land Council office. It is a white bureaucracy that was set up under the guiding hand of this Government. The structure of the office is inappropriate to Aboriginal culture and decision making. The Government man in the Northern Land Council is the white manager,  Mr Alex  Bishaw. He is a former departmental officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. All along  Mr Bishaw  's role has been to ensure that the Ranger agreement would be signed with a minimum of fuss and with the greatest of speed. He has restricted the flow of information to the Aboriginal community and has specifically refused information to some communities. We have only to look at his record in recent days.  Mr Bishaw  told the Northern Land Council meeting that Government officials had told him that Federal Cabinet would legislate away the Northern Land Council's power if the Ranger agreement were not signed. 
-I should like to confine my remarks to the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services. I should like to concentrate my remarks on the Property and Survey Division of the Department of Administrative Services. Honourable members may not be aware of the enormous influence the Australian Government has on urban development. If it wants to use that influence it can improve development in urban and regional areas. During the last six months when I was Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the Property and Survey Division was transferred to the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I was able to see the importance of that section at first hand. In some respects, I was aware of the planning policies of that division. One must realise that the Commonwealth Government uses about 500,000 square feet of office space each year and needs about another 500,000 square feet of office space each year to upgrade its office accommodation. If the use of such space is planned in the correct manner the influence on the development of our cities is enormous. 
I believe that the Government has a commitment to work in co-operation with both the State and local authorities. The Government will have an enormous influence on the development of major cities. The sad situation is that market forces have determined the development of our major cities. Market forces have generally caused the over-development of the central business districts of our capital cities. These market forces have caused a great deal of problems for local government authorities, particularly in relation to the transport systems in our capital cities. When we were in government we held discussions with all State governments and we made a great deal of progress with two conservative State governments. Those two conservative State governments were the New South Wales Liberal Government and the Victorian Liberal Government. In Melbourne alone, a study found that there were 18,000 Commonwealth public servants too many in the central business district of Melbourne. It was thought that those public servants should be dispersed either to what were called sub-metropolitan areas or, in some cases, to growth centres like Albury-Wodonga and Geelong. Basically, they are the two areas to which public servants would have been moved if they had been moved from metropolitan Melbourne. 
Many public servants would have been transferred to areas that were agreed upon in joint discussions between the Australian and Victorian governments. The proposal was that we should develop areas such as Sunshine, Broadmeadows, Watsonia, Epping and the Dandenongs in progressive stages. Suggestions were made that the number of Commonwealth public servants to be transferred would differ in each area. In some cases 1,000 public servants could be transferred, but in other cases as many as 3,000 could be transferred. That would have improved the situation in many ways. 
I should like to refer firstly to the public transport system. An inter-relationship between transport and correct town planning would help a great deal. At present, because of the free market forces in the central business district of the city, the trams, buses and trains in Melbourne are empty when they leave the city in the mornings, but, of course, they come back in packed. The reverse situation applies in the evening. If we develop a city- we had made arrangements with the Victorian planning authorities to develop our nodes or sub-metropolitan centres- we would not only provide job opportunities for public servants living on the fringes of those cities but also provide job opportunities by building the office blocks to house those public servants. They were not to be just places of isolation where public servants were housed. Within those office buildings we were going to have cultural facilities, social faculties and other amenities. In the Sydney situation we proposed to develop the Parramatta site. At that site we were going to house 4,500 public servants and within that building there was going to be at least a quarter of a million square feet of shop space- in other words, the boutiques, clothing shops, and so on- a post office and, above all, theatres and cultural centres. We were constructing these buildings on the fringes of cities. We were not only giving job opportunities to workers generally but also making available greater cultural facilities in those areas. 
It seems to me that the Commonwealth Government could give the lead in this regard. It has not only enormous control over its own public servants but also influence over the statutory authorities that come under the Commonwealth. Some examples are the Australian Telecommunications Commission, the Australian Postal Commission, the Commonwealth Bank, TransAustralia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd, just to mention a few. Again I stress that it is important that these things be taken into consideration. 
Yesterday the very important report of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Costs was tabled in this chamber. The report states that a department should be set up, not only in the Commonwealth context but also in the State context. Recommendation 2 of the report states: 
Each State should establish a Ministerial portfolio responsible for urban and housing policy in its fullest sense. The Minister would have the primary task of co-ordinating the activities of other related portfolios with responsibility for issues affecting urban needs and the urban environment and for liaison with other levels of government and the private sector. 
I believe that that department would be the counterpart of the old Department of Urban and Regional Development. I believe that the Property Section should not be in the Department of Administrative Services but should be in the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. We need such a weight, such a punch, in influencing the development of our urban communities in such a body as the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
The sad situation is that, rather than entering into what I believe to be co-operative federalism and working in co-operation with State authorities and local authorities so that our capital cities and provincial cities can become rational places in which to live, this Government has withdrawn and said: 'That is a State responsibility'. I believe that in urban living one cannot divorce oneself. The situation that I described in regard to dispersed places in Melbourne should apply in respect of Sydney. We stopped the Woolloomooloo development in which the previous Government had proposed to build an office building for some 15,000 Commonwealth public servants. In its place we were going to build in areas such as Parramatta, Campbelltown and Penrith. Of course, the same principle was involved- to try to make the city a rational place, to give job opportunities on the fringes of the city and, particularly, to make transport more rational in the capital cities. I urge the Government to reassess its administrative arrangements and to transfer the Property Section to the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I confine my remarks tonight to the estimates for the Department of the Northern Territory. I speak particularly about the indigenous people of the Northern Territory, their struggle for selfdetermination and their struggle, particularly in the last few weeks, to try to get a just decision on the question whether uranium should be mined and exported from their land. I think it is very important that we give - 
The honourable member interjects and says that I am stirring up more trouble. The whole basis of the Government's legislation in regard to this decision and in regard to the decision of the Northern Land Council is so important that I refer honourable members to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. Section 23 (3) of that Act states, in part: 
. a Land Council . .. shall not take any action, including, but not limited to, the giving of consent or the withholding of consent, in any matter in connection with land held by a Land Trust, unless the Land Council is satisfied that- 
the traditional Aboriginal owners (if any) of that land understand the nature and purpose of the proposed action and, as a group, consent to it; and 
any Aboriginal community or group that may be affected by the proposed action has been consulted and has had adequate opportunity to express its views to the Land Council. 
That is what the legislation of this Parliament provides. The Government says that these people are troublemakers. Generation after generation of these people have been raped of their basic rights. Here we have an opportunity to treat them in a just and decent way. We pass legislation in this Parliament, but we give only lip service to it and do not try to carry out policies in regard to those people. We try to intimidate them both directly and indirectly. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  tried to put pressure on these people. The Government wanted this agreement signed with indecent haste. It wanted the signature of members of the Northern Land Council so that it could proceed with uranium mining in the Northern Territory. 
No consideration was given to whether the traditional people had been consulted, whether the agreement had been translated into the Aboriginal language so that members of the Northern Land Council could examine it and take their time in deciding whether the agreement was just. That is the situation. The Government does not really want the Aboriginal people to adjudicate at all. It wants to railroad the agreement through and to make sure that the Aboriginal people succumb to the Government. The Aboriginal people, to their great credit, I think for the first time in the history of this nation, have stood up to the power of the establishment, the mining companies, financial institutions and the bureaucracy and they have demanded that they be heard. 
Today they have decided it will be official at 2 p.m. tomorrow that they want time to discuss the matter. Under section 23 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land will discuss all aspects of the uranium mining to be carried out in the Northern Territory. After they have discussed all the conditions that have been put forward, there will be a further Land Council meeting to determine whether members will sign that agreement. The Aboriginal people themselves will make that decision. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)This  question has been raised by way of points of order on many occasions. It has been pointed out that the debate on this legislation is very wide ranging and, provided the honourable member touches on the area concerned and the administration of the area concerned, it is in order. 
For some time now the Aboriginal people have been described in the newspapers as having no morality and that all they are interested in is the money they receive from royalties on uranium mining. That is how they have been depicted in the Australian Press. The establishment, those members on the Government side, tries to encourage the view that all the Aboriginal people are interested in is money. To a great extent, the newspapers of this nation have been saying exactly the same thing. Clearly that is not the view of the Aboriginal people presented to  Mr Justice  Fox. At page 9 of the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry it is stated: 
The evidence before us shows that the traditional owners of the Ranger site and the Northern Land Council (as now constituted) are opposed to the mining of uranium on that site. 
One group of Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory sent a telegram to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  this afternoon. It stated: 
Bill Hayden 
Leader Opposition 
Parliament House Canberra 800 people on Galiwinku community marched today in full support to the traditional land owners to stop uranium ruining agreement this day we march and fly the NT flag at half mast to express our sorrow in digging up the real incoming of our life our blood our mother who gave us birth. Uranium is dangerous not only to Aboriginal people but to the whole world. The NT flag and Australian flag will stay at half mast until we are listened to. 
People of Galiwinku 
One of the leaders of the Aboriginal people of Elcho Island is presently meeting with the  Chairman  of the Land Council,  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu. He is  Mr Wesley  Lanaphuy. The Minister knows that the people are demanding the right to discuss this agreement in their own time. It must be translated into their language so that they can understand it. They will make their decision. It will be their decision; not anyone else's decision. I think it is about time that the jackals on the other side stopped trying to exploit these people on the basis of greed. I conclude on the point that this is a great historical day because the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory will see justice done. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order ! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, as you were taking the chair, the honourable member for Holt used the word 'scum' to describe me. I ask that it be struck from the record because I object to it. I expect an apology from the honourable member. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
I have listened to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and I think that in a way he belittles himself. The sad situation is that this debate is a kind of mud slinging business on the question of aid. We are dealing with the question of what percentage of the gross national product should be allocated when human values are under consideration. The Minister knows- those who have sat in Cabinet know- that the real enemy that has had to be beaten, particularly in these last few years, is the Federal Treasury. The Federal Treasury has been trying to cut aid appropriations not only in the latter years of the Labor Government but also during this Government's term of office. It has applied very strong discipline with regard to aid to the underdeveloped nations. To some extent, the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  tried to raise the question that we should look at broader horizons in South East Asia when making aid available. I think that that point of view is worthy of consideration because it was put forward in a constructive manner. 
I am not happy with this conservative government; I think it is one of the worst governments that this country has ever had. But in fairness, I think the Foreign Minister has kept an even hand on his portfolio. I know that he probably even has problems within his own conservative party, and one has to recognise the role he has to play within the Government and within the international family of nations. One cannot deny the fact that the line set down by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  is being continued. One could argue that there is a continuation of that line. I am not trying to define the situation because I know that the Foreign Minister will say that I put a different emphasis on different fields. There is a close relationship between the two situations. I believe that Australia needs an independent foreign policy. The element of independence must be interelated more and more with that of economic policy. We know this country more and more is becoming controlled by what we call trans-national corporations, wealthy financial institutions, most of which, of course, are based in the United States. Therefore, the United States exercises excessive influence over this country's foreign policy. 
I want, in the short time that is available to me, to confine my remarks to the struggle of the people of Vietnam for independence and freedom. We know that for 30 years that nation struggled for its independence and freedom, that it fought first against the French, then the Japanese and then the Americans. Of course, it won that struggle despite great odds and at an enormous price. The bombing that was unleashed upon it far exceeded what had been unleashed on the whole of Europe in the Second World War. So the Vietnamese people have come out of a 30-year struggle and are trying to bring about the reconstruction of their nation. Most remarkable of all is the tolerance displayed by its leadership, by what in fact is a most compassionate government. If one could use that word, it is even a gentle government, because it is striving to reconstruct Vietnam. It holds no hate for its adversaries of the past. At the same time it is seeking to unify a country which, over the last three decades in particular, has been divided. 
During two of the three years since the war ended Vietnam had, insofar as food supply is concerned, two very bad seasons climatically. Strange to relate, areas of that country experienced what there would be considered a drought and, as a result, its crops were affected greatly. Recently, in the Mekong Delta in particular, bad flooding has occurred. Indeed the flooding has been so great that nine provinces have been affected adversely. When the Foreign Minister considers the granting of aid, I hope that he will have his Department give special consideration to the situation in Vietnam. Because of its enormous losses during the recent floods a call has been made by that country seeking world aid. 
Not only has Vietnam many special problems to overcome but also has it been confronted with the conflict on the border region with Kampuchea. I have not at any time been one to engage in scaremongering, but when recently I was in Vietnam I had discussions with people who were refugees from Kampuchea. I listened to their stories of the brutalities that had occurred. If the barbarity which occurred was onetenth of the magnitude alleged, that regime in Kampuchea must be a very cruel one indeed. The sad situation is, I believe, that an immature government has taken short cuts on the road to what it calls socialism and in doing so has brought great cruelty to the people of Kampuchea. In addition, it has also entered into military conflict with Vietnam. This again has placed a great burden on the Vietnamese people, engaged as they are in the reconstruction of their nation after 30 years of war. 
I know that where aid is concerned it is extremely difficult to stretch the bow. I know that the major enemy which the Government has to overcome is not the parliamentary Oppositionwhich joins the Foreign Minister in trying to step up the percentage of aid given and does not quibble about whether it is a percentage point lower than when it was in office- it is the same bureaucracy, the Treasury, that strives to cut back the amount granted. I do not know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs can with the help of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  keep the hands of the Treasury away from the granting of aid, but I would note that, because of Australia's involvement in the internal affairs of Vietnam, and the tens and hundreds of millions we spent in trying to interfere there, we have a moral obligation to fulfil. I believe that we should extend aid contribution to Vietnam. 
During my recent visit to that country Hoang Bich Son, the Vice Foreign Minister, told me personally of the good relationship that he had with Foreign Minister Peacock and the understanding that they seemed to have achieved. Also, I know that when Phan Yen, another Vice Foreign Minister, was here he reported that good relations had been built up between governments. It is important that we understand the difficult problems and hard conditions that do exist in Vietnam. It is not much good Government supporters claiming that Vietnam is a part of certain blocs. They were driven into the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance. Vietnam is a country which is striving to maintain its independence and freedom from all sides whether it be China or the Soviet Union on the one hand or the United States on the other. Even though it has entered Comecon, it has maintained its links with the International Bank. It has done that because it wants to maintain its freedom from having to rely on any one nation. 
The better the understanding that the members of the Parliament have of that and the more we can assist the Government in understanding the problems of reconstruction in Vietnam, and in recognising our moral obligation to try to assist that country back to a state of greater dignity and independence and to assist in its reconstruction the better it will be for this region of the world. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want tonight to discuss the matter of Toongabbie Creek. I want to support the remarks made last week by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  This Government criticised at Question Time the New South Wales Government for not making the Toongabbie Creek project a major priority in its water resources program. The fact is that this Government has proposed to make available $200m over a period of five years for water resources in both rural and urban areas. Yet if one examines how much money it has made available one will see that last year $12m of available funds was unspent. This year the Government has added another $5m to that amount. In other words $ 17m is now available for the program. Yet the Government professes that it will spend $200m over five years. All I can say is that at that rate the program will certainly take a low priority under this Government. 
The Government is trying to criticise the New South Wales Government for not giving the Toongabbie Creek a high priority. In the first place the Toongabbie Creek project was carried out due to the flooding that occurred and to the deaths that occurred in the area from flooding. 
The honourable member for Parramatta has interjected that 1 1 people have been killed. The situation is that when the Labor Party was in government the area improvement program was carried out in the western suburbs. Money was made available by the Labor Government of that day to carry out a survey. The survey was commended by the then honourable member for Mitchell, a conservative member who was at that time in Opposition. This Government since that time- after all it is now in its third year of office- has not made one penny available for water resources in the Toongabbie Creek area. To give honourable members some idea of the amount of money that is needed for water resources, sewerage and drainage throughout this country I point out that New South Wales, which has 52 applications, estimates that flood mitigation and drainage problems alone will cost $365m. That is without its sewerage problem. The Whitlam Labor Government in its last year made $1 13m available for the sewerage backlog program. This Government in its first year cut the expenditure to $53m and in its second year completely abolished it. 
I am a little weary of governments of hypocrisy such as this Government trying to bring forward a so-called $200m program over five years when in fact it made only $5m available this year in addition to the $12m of last year's allocation which was unspent. This Government's priorities are so low in that regard. It is about time that this Government started to step up the priority in regard to this expenditure. It is playing cheap politics and it is playing with people's lives. We need direct grants from the Australian Government to the local government authority to overcome these problems. The only way that many drainage problems in the western suburbs of Sydney and in other areas are going to be solved is by direct involvement of the Australian Government working in co-operation with local government. That was the situation under the Labor Government. If the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  looked after his water scheme in Tasmania he would be doing some service, but he has not even done that. 
-The criticism levelled by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  is reasonable because these amendments should have been introduced in August of this year when other amendments were dealt with.  His  criticism was that the Government was a bit sloppy, and that is a reasonable comment. I do not want to go into details of these amendments because my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  will be dealing particularly with the last amendment which refers to persons dishonourably discharged. During the Committee stage I do not want to dwell on what took place in the second reading debate in another place, but I do want to point out that paragraph (e) of our second reading amendment called for increased funds to be made available to restore the 50 per cent decline, in real terms, in funds over the last three years. 
I seems to me, from the total funds being made available this year by way of both revenue and grants, that it is obvious how badly servicemen are being treated. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  should be aware of this situation, being an ex-servicemen from Vietnam. For instance, last year alone there was a grant of $20m, plus the revenue, which made a total of about $90m. This year revenue has been cut back to $10m making a total, with revenue, of $78. 8m. When compared with last year alone, that is bad enough. The position is even worse when one considers what a Labor government made available in the 1974-75 Budget. It provided $130m, and in its last Budget it made available $ 122.5m. So one can see the priority given to this scheme under a Labor administration. It is a very fine scheme. 
I get a little weary when the Government starts talking about the priorities given to exservicemen and the job it has done for them. The money that was made available is on record. The $15,000 loan under a Labor administration in 1974-75 certainly could purchase a great deal more in the housing field than it can now. The report of the inquiry into the cost of housing which was tabled in the House of Representatives last week shows that the average cost of land and a dwelling in metropolitan Sydney is about $36,000. One can imagine how far this $15,000 would go now. We believe that a greater total amount should be made available for defence service homes and also that it is long overdue that the loan be increased. It was increased under a Labor administration. I think it is fair to criticise that aspect. I do not want to go into lengthy details. My colleagues and I dealt with these in the second reading debate. Probably the most positive aspect of the amendments in the Bill is that at least they take the de facto wife out of the dark ages. It has taken a hell of a long time for this conservative Government to catch up to that situation. I am at least grateful for any crumb that falls from this conservative Government's table. 
A lot of technical aspects needed to be cleared up to streamline the administration of the scheme. This legislation first came before this Parliament 60-odd years ago. The defence service homes scheme in the old days was called the war service homes scheme. I would prefer to call it the peace service homes scheme. Maybe that is a little too advanced for this militarist Government. Be that as it may, I think that over the years this scheme has served well. It should certainly be brought back to being a greater reward for servicemen. The loan is only a pittance. It would not provide even 50 per cent of the amount of money required to purchase land and dwelling in the western suburbs of Sydney where costs are probably lower than in some of the more exclusive parts of Sydney. I would imagine that a house in the electorate of the honourable member for St George could not be bought for less than $40,000. The price might be even higher. The average price might be $45,000. Therefore the loan of $15,000 would provide only one-third of the cost of land and dwelling in that electorate. I do not want to delay the Committee any longer because I know that my colleague from Hughes wants to say something. Even though I administered this legislation for six months the honourable member for Hughes administered it for longer than any other Minister on our side. 
I thank the House. This shows the callous attitude adopted by this sectional Government- I stress the term 'sectional Government'. The Government is making these cuts at a time when nearly 100,000 families are waiting for homes. It is extremely doubtful whether 9,000 homes will be constructed by the State housing authorities this year. I point out to the House that 9,000 dwellings is the lowest figure since 1950. That illustrates the seriousness of the situation. The Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement only came into being in 1947 and 9,500 dwellings would be the lowest number of homes built since 1950. 1 stress again that 100,000 family people have their names on the waiting lists of the housing commissions and 
Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement were $390m. This year they are $3 16m. That is serious enough, but if we examine the repayments by the States to the Commonwealth of advances we find that last year they totalled $27. 7m and this year they total $30.9m. Last year interest repayments totalled $134m; this year they total $147m. Therefore, net funds available last year were something like $228m. This year the figure is down to $137m. Again, if we take into consideration the amount of money made available for housing in 1974-75, which was the peak year of the Labor Government, the amount of money made available for housing last year, at constant prices, is brought down to $165m and the allocation for this year is brought down to some $92. 8m. This represents a 43 per cent decrease since 1974-75 in the allocation for housing, assessed at constant prices. To permit a better understanding of the cuts, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table, setting out these figures in detail, which I compiled. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197809284_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

over 28,000 of these are in New South Wales alone. 
The situation in New South Wales is even more critical than that would suggest. Last year gross advances were $128m; this year the advances are to be cut to $ 103.7m. If we deduct the advance repayments and interest repayments the net funds available for 1977-78 were $72.5m. This year the figure is down to $42.4m. Again, if we use the 1974-75 constant prices the allocation last year would be $52.4m and this year it would be reduced to $28m, representing a reduction of 45 per cent on the allocation last year. In 1974-75 the repayments of interest and principal by the New South Wales Government accounted for 30.5 per cent of the total allocation to the State. 

<graphic href="111131197809284_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

In this Budget, the proportion has risen to a massive 59 per cent. Again, to illustrate the situation in more detail, I seek leave to incorporate 

<graphic href="111131197809284_30_1.jpg"></graphic>

in  Hansard  a table dealing with the figures applicable to New South Wales in particular. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197809284_30_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. Not only has there been a fall in gross advances, but also the increase in the share of repayments has meant a massive drop in the funds made available to the States. In New South Wales, funds available are down 29 per cent in real terms on the funds made available last year and are down by about 67 per cent on the funds made available in 1974-75. The cutback in funds made available to the New South Wales Housing Commission- I stress this and I hope that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  will listen to this with some compassion- will mean a reduction of 1,100 dwellings in the number of commencements this year by the New South Wales Housing Commission. In other words, last year the Commission constructed 2,600, which was not a particularly good year, and this year there will be only 1,500 commencements. 
If we turn to consider the terminating building societies, to which limited funds have been made available, we see that the allocation for housing in this year's Budget will mean a cutback from 2,600 last year to 2,300 this year in the number of loans made available. In total these cuts will mean that about 1,230 fewer dwellings will be constructed this year than were constructed last year with public funding through both the New South Wales Housing Commission and the terminating building societies in New South Wales. This has occurred despite the unprecedented step by the New South Wales Government of putting $ 10m of its own loan moneys into housing in an attempt to offset the cuts in the Commonwealth payments for housing. What is most disturbing about these cuts is not only their depressing effect on the home building industry but also the callous disregard that the Commonwealth Government has shown for the 28,000 families in New South Wales now on the New South Wales Housing Commission waiting list. 
The case for making funds available for housing through the public sector is a very strong one. I hope that honourable members will listen to this logic. Firstly, the funds spent through the public sector have a very high gearing in terms of the impact they have on the home building industry. Secondly, such spending has immense social benefits because the moneys spent through the public sector help people at the bottom end of the income scale to buy or rent a homesomething which they are denied if they are forced to rely on the private sector. If I have time I will develop that argument in detail. There are ways of making such funds available which place only a minimum amount of strain on the Commonwealth Budget. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  recently outlined a scheme that would give a boost to the home building industry, with much of the stimulus coming through the public sector but at the same time costing the Commonwealth Budget only $107m and that would be spread over two Budget periods. I will not develop these arguments now because they have been well developed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Let me give details of the case for using the public sector to stimulate housing. About 70 per cent of the funds are spent through housing commissions. These funds are used to purchase land, to service land and to construct rental dwellings. The remaining 30 per cent of the funds finds its way to the home builders account. Most of that money is lent through the terminating building societies in the respective States. Fifty-seven per cent of loans through terminating building societies are for new dwellings. I stress that point. Fifty-three per cent of government loans are for new dwellings. These figures suggest that in total about 70 per cent to 75 per cent of funds distributed through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement find their way into the construction of new dwellings. We need to construct new dwellings to get the building industry under way. The bunding industry needs a stimulus. The figure of 70 per cent to 75 per cent is in stark contrast with the figure of 30 per cent of funds lent through the savings banks, 3 1 per cent of funds lent through the permanent building societies and 33 per cent of funds lent through the trading banks which find their way into new housing. That is a drastic difference. 
For every dollar spent through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, $2.50 would have to be lent through the savings banks to have the same impact on the level of activity in the home building industry. This is one of the reasons why, even if the savings banks made some progress in getting towards the prescribed asset ratio of 40 per cent which was announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget- the rate is still 53 per cent; it will take some time to get it down to 40 per cent- the leakage of loans into established housing reduces the effectiveness of the savings banks to give the necessary stimulus to new housing construction. 
We need an immediate stimulus of funds from the Commonwealth to the States both through the construction of new homes by the housing commissions and increased loans through the Home Builders Account and through the terminating building societies. This in turn will stimulate the private housing sector and have a multiplier effect on other associated industries such as those supplying Portland cement, fibrous plaster and related products, asbestos cement sheets and mouldings, bricks and tiles, other earthenware goods, porcelain and terracotta products, glass, sawn timbers, plywood and veneers, other processed wood wall and ceiling boards, aluminium building materials, plastic building materials, et cetera. Additional to these capital expenditure items a number of ancillary industries are involved in supplying furniture and furnishings, light fittings, white goods, cutlery and so on. 
An assertion has been made that what is good for housing is good for the Australian economy. I think that has to be stated over and over again. 
The Australian economy needs a public housing stimulus now because men are unemployed and much material is unused. The Government's own indicative planning council says that enough men and material are available to build 1 50,000 homes. Yet, because of the Government policies, we have built only 1 16,000. But above that we must consider an urgent social problem- people are unable to buy homes because they cannot save the necessary deposit. They cannot afford to pay commitments of 25 per cent of their salary. The average cost of land and dwelling in Sydney and Melbourne is about $36,000. A person would have to earn $270 a week to repay a loan of that size at 10 per cent interest rate over 25 years. That disqualifies a large section of our community. 
I was going to concentrate my remarks in this debate on the Department of Veterans' Affairs but I cannot discuss that matter until I have answered some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  The honourable member is young. Although he has had a good deal of experience in the Parliament what disturbs me is that he has shown very little compassion in the years that he has been a member of Parliament. He is a conservative man and a pious politician. No matter how long he remains in the Parliament, I do not think that he will ever develop any real compassion for people. He quoted from a report and said that the Government's feeling about people was of real significance. The sad fact is that if we look at page xi of the report we will find that it was completed in May 1975. Yet the report of the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty was tabled today, three years later. Such is the compassion of this Government of which the honourable member is a supporter. 
The honourable member for Dundas seemed to be greatly concerned that people receive unemployment benefit improperly. He stressed that point to some extent. Yet the same man never seems to express any concern about the illegal tax evasion- the legal crookedness- that exists within our community. He is not concerned about those who form family trusts to evade taxation. Nor is he really concerned about cuts in welfare programs. He talked about welfare programs but he did not analyse where there had been cuts in expenditure. In November 1972, under the McMahon Government, the single age pension was 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. During the three years of Labor administration it was lifted from 19 per cent to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Now it has fallen to about 22 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Government is not only stealing money from the pockets of pensioners but also increasing the pensions ever 12 months instead of every six months as they do now. The Government is stealing from the needy of our community. This pious young gentleman shows no real feeling or compassion at all. 
I turn now to the defence service homes scheme which comes within the portfolio of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann).  The scheme, which was originally for the benefit of ex-servicemen who had served in both theatres of war, was broadened to include other military personnel. It is a generous scheme in relation to interest repayments. The interest rate for the first $12,000 is 3% per cent. On the remaining $3,000 the interest rate is 714 per cent. The second increase in the amount of the loan was made in the first financial year of the Labor Administration. This Government seems to want  to restrict the finance available even under this scheme at a time when the Government's indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry recognises that it has sufficient men and material to produce at least 150,000 homes for the people of Australia. This year under this Government's administration the total number of homes constructed both in the private sector and in the public sector was 1 16,000. 
As I said earlier today, at least 100,000 families are on the Housing Commission waiting list. Ex-servicemen are waiting for defence service homes. Prior to this Budget, they had to wait 1 1 months after their application had been accepted. Following the budgetary decisions of this Government they will now have to wait 14 months. Last year $90m was made available under this scheme. This year that amount has been cut back to $78.8m. Because of budgetary restraints, ex-servicemen will have to pay more money to buy a home. I have gone to some lengths to compile a table. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197809284_75_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197809284_76_11.jpg"></graphic>

This table indicates that as I said earlier the Labor Government increased the loan from $12,000 to $15,000 in the 1972-73 Budget, the first year of its administration. At that time the average cost of a dwelling and land in New South Wales was $18,733. An ex-serviceman needed only about $3,000 above the loan of $15,000. What is the situation today? The maximum loan still remains at $15,000 even though a person has to wait 14 months to get it. The average cost of a dwelling and land in New South Wales in 1977-78 was $37,913. The loan is not even 50 per cent of that amount. After having borrowed $15,000, a person would have to borrow another $23,000. That is the contribution of this Government to the ex-servicemen of this country. In the 20 years since I have been in this Parliament, I have seen the hypocrisy of members of the Liberal and National Country parties who talk about wearing their badge with pride. What have they done for the exservicemen? They have stolen from them. They have sold out the ex-servicemen as they have sold out so many other people they are supposed to represent. 
What was the situation under the Labor administration? In the first year, 1973-74, we increased expenditure to $102m. The following year we increased expenditure to $ 1 30m and in the last year of our administration the total expenditure was $ 122.4m. But what amount is being provided this year? A total of $78. 8m is being made available. I do not know whether the people listening to this debate will read the statistics which are set out in the document I have had incorporated in  Hansard.  The document exposes completely the hypocrisy of this Government in its aim to assist those exservicemenparticularly the needy- who served this country. The Government could make a real contribution to the community not only by giving the exservicemen what they are entitled to but also by stimulating the building industry thereby getting rid of unemployment so that we can wipe away this scar in which the honourable member for Dundas seems to revel. The Government has the opportunity to take action. The matter is in the Government's hands. I believe that the defence services homes scheme is a weapon that the Government could use to assist to stimulate the building industry as a whole. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In 1974, this Parliament passed a most far reaching and thoughtful piece of legislation, the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. In my view it is one of the finest pieces of legislation ever passed by this Parliament. The Bill was hailed by both sides of the House, including members of the present Government, as spelling the end of many years of neglect and disregard by governments for the natural and urban environment of this country. For the first time, the Federal Government was obliged to consider and to take into account the environmental consequences of its decisions. One has only to look at the excellent work of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry and the Fraser Island Inquiry which were established by the Whitlam Labor Government. One has only to look at the public debate which followed their reports to see the importance of this legislation. 
But where is the environmental responsibility that the Liberals were so keen to identify with in 1974? Where is the support for the Environment Protection Act which was promised before the last two elections? This Government has breached the terms of the Environment Protection Act on two important occasions. One was the admission of the Concorde SST to Australian airports. The second, more recently, was the recent handover of a prime stretch of Queensland's coast at Yeppoon to the Japanese tycoon. In both cases the Government announced environmental clearances before a final environmental impact statement had been produced. In both cases members of the public who bothered to comment on the proposals were treated with contempt. 
This Government has not seen fit to establish one public environmental inquiry during the 2V4 years that it has been in office. It has ignored the genuine public concern and informed ecological arguments in arriving at decisions regarding the woodchip industry on the New South Wales south coast, the Concorde and, of course, Yeppoon. Now we find that  Sir Charles  Court has told the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Commonwealth must keep out of the West Australian bauxite issue. He said that for the Commonwealth to hold a public inquiry would be the last straw. 
Let us look at the proposals of Alcoa of Australia Ltd to expand bauxite mining in the Darling Range. There is no doubt that this project raises very serious environmental questions. It raises questions about the future quality of Perth's water supply and the link between a high salt intake and high blood pressure in school children. It has the potential to wipe out onequarter of the remaining Jarrah forests in the State which is very poor in forests for recreation and water catchment. It raises questions about the inter-relationship between forest clearing and the spread of die-back disease. Furthermore, bauxite mining already uses huge proportions of the West's limited energy resources. These are resources which could be used more wisely in other industries in ways which could create greater employment. 
All these issues and others have to be examined. Yet Premier Court has chosen to go ahead before environmental studies have been , done. He has refused to release to the public land use reports which are reportedly critical of the project. I challenge the Government to show a little more environmental responsibility than the Western Australian Premier. I challenge this Government to observe the spirit of the environment protection legislation which it was so keen to support in 1974. 1 challenge the Government to establish a public environmental inquiry into the Darling Range bauxite mining proposals. It would be difficult to find another development project in recent times which raised such serious threats to the Australian environment. Not to open up these issues to general public scrutiny would be grossly negligent. It is about time that this Government stopped taking Australia back to the dark ages. We do not want to return to the bulldozer mentality of which this Government was a part for so long. Therefore, I ask the Government to carry out the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act which was so well supported by both sides of the House in 1974. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Does the fact that overseas borrowings, both received and announced, have amounted to more than $ 1,000m so far this financial year mean that total overseas borrowings will exceed last year's total of about $ 1,800m? Further, will the debt servicing cost of Australia's overseas borrowings for the last financial year alone average about $350m a year for the first half of the 1980s and will this double with this year's borrowings? If so, are the Government's overseas borrowings merely transferring the debt servicing problems created by the private capital inflow of the 1960s and . early 1970s from the present to the 1980s? 
-This morning the Australian Broadcasting Commission news reported a most unfortunate incident at Goulburn Island in the Northern Territory. The  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council,  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu, arrived at the Island to a very hostile reception from a large portion of the Island's population. After about10 minutes on the Island,  Mr Yunupingu  was told by the community to get back into his aircraft and leave. I believe it is a very disturbing situation that an Aboriginal community should hold so much hostility and ill feeling towards a  chairman  of the land council which is supposed to represent its interests and carry out its wishes. This lack of confidence in the Northern Land Council is not restricted to Goulburn Island. The last few weeks have seen expressions of dissatisfaction from Milingimbi, Croker Island, Elcho Island, Borroloola and other communities. The divisions and bitterness which today surround the Northern Land Council have only one single cause: It is the attempts of the Fraser Government to manipulate and intimidate the Northern Land Council and the Aboriginal communities which it represents into accepting uranium mining on Aboriginal land. The blame for the unfortunate events at Goulburn Island lies fairly and squarely in the lap of this Government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)The  honourable member for Reid is speaking about the subject of Aboriginal affairs, as I understand it. 
-As I was - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The matter before the Chair at the moment is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Reid at present is dealing with a matter associated with the Department. I want to make it clear that these debates on the estimates for various departments are wide-ranging debates. These items of expenditure deal with different subjects - 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, my time is limited. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call the honourable member for Reid. 
The blame for these unfortunate events at Goulburn Island lies fairly and squarely in the lap of this Government. The Government's overriding concern is to get the Ranger agreement signed as soon as possible. It does not care what happens to the Northern Land Council in the process. It does not care if its tactics turn black people against each other, as was the case at Goulburn Island yesterday. It has ignored the well-informed warnings of  Dr Coombs  that hostility and possible violence will result if the traditional Aboriginal processes of decision making are not gone through before any agreement is signed. 
The Government's tactics have been to undermine the ability of the Northern Land Council to fight for Aboriginal interests. It has used threats to convince the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council that the Council's position is not secure unless the agreement is signed soon. It has used the white manager,  Mr Alex  Bishaw, a public servant from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, to manipulate at every stage of the Council's consideration of the Ranger agreement. He has used all the old bureaucratic tricks of restricting the flow of information and issuing 1 1th hour notices for meetings in order to keep Aboriginal communities in the dark. We have only to look at the remarks of one of the two Aboriginals who took the court action three weeks ago. When asked if he had seen the draft Ranger agreement, he said that he did not know he was allowed to see it. He said that he thought it was the Government 's business. This indicates the success of the bureaucratic intimidation of  Mr Bishaw.  It is about time that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is sitting at the table, took some action in respect of this  Mr Bishaw  and had an inquiry made into his activities. 

 Mr Bishaw 's intimidatory remarks made to the Northern Land Council meeting which considered the draft Ranger agreement are on the record. He is also on the record in the NorthernTerritory  News  of 28 September admitting that he lied to the Northern Land Council regarding a statement by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Bob  Hawke, in order to convince the Council that it would not get trade union support. It was only a little over two weeks ago that the Government 's efforts to rush a start to uranium mining foundered because of the courageous action of several Aboriginal communities whose members resisted the Government's bullying and demanded an opportunity to examine and discuss the Ranger agreement in their own language. But the Government has not let up. It is still trying to get the agreement signed without full consultation according to section 23(3) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. 
The tactics of the Government now are to exclude all communities except Oenpelli from the consultation program. Its hope is that it can snow what is a particularly frightened and repressed community.  Mr Bishaw  has tried to divide communities by telling the Oenpelli people that the people of Goulburn and Croker Islands, who have led the fight for more time to examine the draft agreement, just want to take away royalties from Oenpelli.  Mr Bishaw  has already completely pre-empted any consideration by the people of Oenpelli by announcing last Tuesday that the agreement would not now be signed within a month. He said this before the task of translating the agreement into the Oenpelli language, itself a lengthy process, had even begun. 
The Government's role in this matter became even clearer when Liberal  Senator Neville  Bonner turned up at the Northern Land Council meeting on Monday. No whites were allowed at that meeting but  Senator Bonner  was allowed to attend. He made the Goverment 's position clear when he said after the meeting that 'the Oenpelli people fully realise that uranium mining will eventually take place'. That is an intimidatory statement in itself. The Government's shabby performance has been ably assisted by many sections of the media which continually misrepresent the Aboriginal position as being a concern only for what they can get from mining royalties. I am reminded by a shoddy piece of journalism entitled 'The Uranium Debate: A Shift from Morals to Dollars ' by Peter Bowers in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 1 May this year. Nowhere have I seen an honest effort by  Mr Bowers  or any other members of the Press gallery who have made these allegations of misrepresentation to clarify the situation. None of them has clearly spelt out the Aboriginal evidence presented in the Fox report. I stress to those honourable members who are too lazy to understand the position that they should read page 9 of the second Fox report. The report clearly sets out that those people of the Northern Land Council and at 
Oenpelli are opposed to the mining of uranium on their land. 
Nowhere in the Press have I seen reports or analyses of the unprecedented mobilisation of Aboriginal communities in Arnhem Land over recent weeks. A rally of over 800 people was held on Elcho Island on 21 September to oppose uranium mining. This was a truly historic event for Northern Territory Aborigines. But there was barely a murmur from the national Press about it. Instead we had the false reporting that the Labor member for Arnhem Land,  Mr Bob  Collins, had initiated the court action which prevented the signing of the Ranger agreement. The Press in general did not correct that mistake. There was no substantial effort to report the facts. This action has been taken by representatives of two communities and is supported by many others. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a letter from an Aboriginal community representative which appeared in the  Northern Territory News  on 2 October. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - 
Is leave granted? 
-I had the agreement of the Minister in charge of the House and I seek leave to have the letter incorporated. 
My time is short. I will be cut out of my time. I showed it to the Minister. 
-The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  authorised me. If you want to challenge my word,  Mr Minister  - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


 Sir, I was one of the Aboriginal people who came to Darwin on behalf of my community to stop the Ranger Agreement being signed. 
I am upset the way the newspapers and radio keep saying that we have set back the mining and that white people got us to do it. 
If the Government, the mining companies and the business firms all made plans before they got our go-ahead then they should take the consequences of their rush. It's not our fault. 
This Ranger Agreement is complicated and we need time to talk about it properly. 
It was the Government and the miners who rushed the Northern Land Council and wouldn't give us enough time to think. 
We have important responsibilities for the land under our own law. 
We are not being selfish but we have equal rights so why is everyone trying to stomp on us, put us in corners with pressure and telling us to keep our mouths shut? This is discriminating against us. 
We were all unhappy that  Mr Viner  and other people rubbished those white people who we got to help us. 
Bob Collins is our Member of Parliament and only did what he was told by us. 
Our lawyers are there to help us. No one told us what to do. We can make up our own minds. 
No one wanted to have a court case. We wanted to stand together and our advisers and us tried hard to work things out quietly but then we had to go to court because we had no choice any more. 
Now we will work it out together. I hope the Government and the miners will leave as alone to think about it without rushing us again. 
Community Representative 
The Minister was just foxing to use up my time. It is a sad situation. The letter states in part: 
I am upset the way the newspapers and radio keep saying that we have set back the mining and that white people got us to do it. 
If the Government, the mining companies and the business firms all made plans before they got our go-ahead then they should take the consequence of their rush. It's not our fault. 
This Ranger Agreement is complicated and we need time to talk about it properly. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
2 ) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementations of procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Has at least one taxpayer written to the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation saying that as the Australian Atomic Energy Commission received more than $22m in the last financial year, its operation offers no prospect of any contribution to Australia's energy requirements in the foreseeable future and moreover, its activities pose a grave threat, both directly and indirectly to human health and survival, he or she conscientiously objected to making any contribution to the Commission and was therefore withholding his or her share of its funding. 
How many persons have objected to the use of their taxation contributions for nuclear research. 
Does he intend to extend to these conscientious objectors the same courtesy as his colleague the Minister for Education has promised to people objecting to the use of student union funds at The Australian National University. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation or to obtain leave to make a brief statement. 
I second the amendment and I wish to speak now. There is one certain thing which can be said about Maralinga: This Parliament and the Australian public have not been told the full story. Instead, a succession of Liberal-National Country Party Ministers have made misleading and contradictory statements to the Parliament and outside the Parliament about Maralinga. Public concern has been answered with a series of untruths and halftruths about the testing that took place at Maralinga and about the waste that now remains and the hazard within this country at present. There are many unanswered questions and unresolved problems associated with Maralinga. There are serious questions concerning the health of Australian citizens, especially Aboriginals, concerning Australia's sovereignty and whether the Australian Government always has been kept informed of events on Australian soil, concerning the hazards of waste which remains at Maralinga and the cost to Australian taxpayers of policing the nuclear waste for 300,000 years, the time it will take before it loses its toxicity. 
The Opposition believes that a full public inquiry must be held in order to answer these questions. It is time that the public was given all the facts about Maralinga. Answers to legitimate health and safety concerns are long overdue. It is clear that many problems associated with Maralinga have not been resolved. The Government's earlier slick assurances about nuclear wastes, nuclear safeguards and the health risks of radiation are even less convincing when we examine the record at Maralinga. It simply cannot or will not provide a straight-forward answer to the most basic questions. We must now be given the answers. Maralinga is a stark example of the bankruptcy of this Government's uranium policy. So many problems are still unresolved in relation to the whole nuclear business. 
Let us look at the statements which were made by successive Liberal Ministers. On 14 September 1972 in this House the Minister for Supply was asked a question by  Mr Barnard  concerning whether nuclear wastes had been brought from Britain for dumping at Maralinga. Later the same day the Minister produced a public statement and later that day he spoke in the adjournment debate in the House in which he said: 
All radioactive waste buried at three places in AustraliaMonte Bello Islands, Emu and Maralinga- resulted from experiments conducted at those places. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
If we now look at the answer given on 16 February 1977 by the Minister for Defence to a question on notice from E. G. Whitlam we find that he revealed that the waste from Christmas Island nuclear tests which resulted from washings of the British aircraft that flew to Edinburgh airfield in South Australia, were buried at Maralinga. This directly contradicts earlier statements by the then Minister for Supply. Why did that Minister not provide this information to the House in 1972? Was he aware of these facts? If not, why not? What is clear is that this Parliament was misled by the Minister who now serves as the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland).  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the four statements to which I have referred. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Radioactive Waste 
-I thank the House. We have had no explanation from the Government of this contradiction. The Minister for Defence says that there were no explosions after 1956 and the then 
Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development admitted that there were low yield atomic explosions through to 1 963. The public is left in the dark. The Government has had over a year to explain this contradiction, but in its usual arrogant manner it chose not to do so. Some hysteria has been created about the possibility of terrorists acquiring the plutonium which is buried at Maralinga. The Minister for Defence, not the Opposition, raised this matter in a Cabinet submission which mentioned a discrete mass of plutonium of about half a kilogram. But a statement issued yesterday by the British High Commission said that there were six separate containers of plutonium. It therefore appears that the Government had not been fully informed by the British authorities when the Cabinet submission was presented. 
It may be that the difficulties for terrorists of acquiring this material are very great- I make that clear- but this is not the major issue. I stress that in my view this is not the major issue. It is a smokescreen for the serious environmental questions which are raised by the existence of 800 tonnes of radioactive rubble, including 20 kilograms of plutonium, which is buried at Maralinga. In a letter to me on 3 February 1977 the Minister for Defence said that it was essentially a matter of long term environmental management. I seek leave to have that letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 3 Feb 1977 
I thank the House. This is where the Government's record is most disturbing. For a start, the Minister for Defence says that there are 20 kilograms of plutonium at Maralinga; but I am privately informed that actually 41 kilograms is buried at Maralinga. Nowhere has  the Government set out in a straightforward way what radioactive materials are buried there. We have never been told for how long these materials will remain toxic, for how long we will have to continue to monitor them and how much that will cost the Australian taxpayers. We know that plutonium is deadly for hundreds of thousands of years. We do not know where these materials could move in the ground water and in the food chains over these long periods of time. The glib answers of the Minister for Supply in 1972 were that the materials had a half-life of 15 to 20 years. We know now that that is nonsense and that the plutonium is there. He had plenty of opportunity to correct himself but he did not do so. 
In a letter to me on 3 February 1 977 the Minister for Defence made reassuring remarks about surveys of the Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee, but we know how reliable they were. That Committee was shown to be a group of nuclear hawks. It consistently supported French nuclear tests in the Pacific and said that they presented no health risk. That view has been totally discredited in this country. It is well known that the Ranger inquiry commissioners were less happy with the objectivity of the Committee's most prominent member, Professor  Sir Ernest  Titterton. The Minister for Defence also mentioned the 1968 report of the British Government's waste which remains at Maralinga. But where is that report? In signing a memorandum of agreement at that time the Austraiian Government sold out the Australian people's interest to the British Government. What protection has the Australian Government against the enormous cost of policing this plutonium over the years. The waste at Maralinga has never been made public for independent assessment. It is the extreme secrecy of the Liberal-National Country party governments and the gross negligence of the nuclear hawks which advise them which has left future generations of Australians with the legacy of Rum Jungle and now of Maralinga. 
On 9 August last year the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development announced a scientific study into the Maralinga wastes. Why did it take so long? Why was not this done in 1972 when this matter was first raised? There are serious health questions associated with Maralinga which have not yet been answered. I was contacted last year by a group of men who had been Commonwealth policemen at Maralinga in the 1950s. Four of their group of seven have died of cancer since working at Maralinga. This sample may not prove anything in real terms but it raises serious questions which must be further investigated. But the Government refuses to do this. The United States Government is now engaged in a study of the health of personnel previously involved in atomic tests. I asked the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on 1 1 April this year whether he would institute a similar inquiry but he refused to do so. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the question and answer. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Atomic Tests: Radiation  (Question No. 921) 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 April 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the United States Government's follow-up study on personnel who were involved in their past atomic testing programs. 
Will the Australian Government institute a similar inquiry amongst all persons who worked at Maralinga, South Australia, during the years 1 950 to 1 965 in order to ascertain what ill-effects they may have suffered. 
Yes. 
All personnel working at Maralinga were subject to stringent health procedures. Their activities in the field were strictly controlled and they were constantly monitored to ensure that they were not exposed to dangerous radiation. 
The majority of those who were conducting and monitoring the tests at Maralinga were UK personnel. Any follow-up studies on those persons would be a matter for the UK Government to decide upon. 
Because of the stringent monitoring procedures undertaken at the time and the fact that they were not exposed to dangerous radiation, there is no proposal to institute studies on Australians who were in support of the UK activities at Maralinga from the rear areas. 
-I thank the House. The Minister tries to brush the issue aside by saying that strict monitoring procedures were undertaken at the time. This is irrelevant. Cancers do not show up for many years after the cause. What efforts were made to monitor Aboriginals who were in the vicinity of Maralinga during and after the tests? We have heard nothing from the Government on these serious charges and questions raised by  Mr Connolly,  a business man of Perth, Western Australia in December 1976. The whole Maralinga story is one of negligence, dishonesty and secrecy on behalf of Liberal-National Country party governments. The public would know nothing of the serious unresolved problems associated with Maralinga if it were not for the courageous attitude of a few people who previously worked at Maralinga and some public servants. I must give credit to  Mr Brian  Toohey, a journalist from the  Australian Financial Review. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable members time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
How many square metres of office space were leased by the Australian Government during 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
In which cities was the majority of leased space located. 
What percentage was located in the Central Business Districts of those cities. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. My personal explanation is concerned with a statement made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  during Question Time. The Minister said that in pushing the Labor Party's policy on uranium I would sacrifice the situation of the Aboriginal people. 
The Minister again says: 'Hear, hear!' I have stressed and stressed again that the opposite is the situation. The situation is that one aspect of the Labor Party's policy, if the Minister would care to read it, deals with the unresolved problems of the Aboriginal people. The Minister should try to understand the environmental aspect of those problems. I might say that before I went to Oenpelli this Minister who represents the Government's policy on Aborigines had not even been to talk to the people of Oenpelli. I went there in June last year. Now he wants to rush - 
My personal attitude has been that the Northern Land Council and the Aboriginal people should make their own decision free of outside interference. I gave  Mr Muller  instructions to put forward that point of view to the leader and members of the Northern Land Council to whom we have sent telegrams of solidarity. We did this so that they could make their decision free of outside interference 1 I made my position clear when I spoke on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. At this stage I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a letter to the editor of the  Australian Financial Review.  That letter which was published in this mornings edition of that newspaper also adds to my position. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith)  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I want to speak tonight about the continued misrepresentation by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  of the events surrounding the actions of the Northern Land Council in regard to the Ranger agreement. In the last two days the Minister has continued his hysterical attempts to blame the Australian Labor Party for Aboriginal opposition to uranium mining.  His  remarks have been nothing short of desperate. He has only himself to blame for the dissatisfaction that there is with the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council within the Aboriginal community. He has only himself to blame for the threats made to the Council itself.  His  attempts to blame the Labor Party are ridiculous. They were criticised by the 
Aboriginal members of the Council during the court action which was taken recently. In fact, if one looks at point 9 of the court settlement on 22 September between the Northern Land Council and the Aboriginal representative one finds that the Council dissociated itself with all such imputations. The Minister's remarks have today been the subject of a bitter attack by the National Aboriginal and Islander Liberation Movement. 
The House adjourned at 11 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Government has provided a long term loan of $9m and a short term loan of $1.8m for the Mary Kathleen Uranium Project. 
Is it also a fact that Mary Kathleen made a loss of $20m over 2 years. 
Does the Government expect to receive any return on its investment in Mary Kathleen. 
Is it a fact that to pay each worker at Mary Kathleen a severance pay of $35,000 would be cheaper for the taxpayer than to continue to support the operation of Mary Kathleen. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 1 6 August 1 978: 
Has Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd repaid the short term loan of $1.8m provided by the Commonwealth Government early in 1977. 
What interest has been received by the Commonwealth on this loan. 
3 ) Is he able to say whether Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd has repaid a short term loan of $4.2m to Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd. 
Is he also able to say what interest has been paid on this loan by MKU to CRA. 
Did the Commonwealth receive any interest on the short term assistance of $2m provided to MKU in February 1978. 
Did the Commonwealth grant funds to MKU equivalent to the interest payments made by MKU to the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority for uranium borrowed in 1976; if so, what was the total amount of these payments. 
What has been the level of U308 production at the Mary Kathleen mine (a) in the years (i) 1976 and (ii) 1977 and (b) during the period 1 January to 30 June 1978. 
In view of the conclusion of the Willsteed report that the project is viable in the life of the present contracts only if overall average prices are lifted to about $US27/lbU308 have prices for 1978 and future uranium sales from Mary Kathleen been increased above $US25/lb U308. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Has the Government received any communication from the United States Government concerning proposals to establish a nuclear waste repository on an island in the Pacific. 
Is the Government aware of any such proposals; if so, which Pacific islands are considered possible sites for a repository. 
Have any discussions been held with the Government of Papua New Guinea or New Zealand concerning such a proposal. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Does  the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-I do. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said during his reply that I had falsely accused  Mr Alex  Bishaw of certain actions.  Mr Alex  Bishaw is a self-confessed liar. I stress that. He is an officer working in a statutory office under the authority of the Minister. He lied to the Northern Land Council. I quote from an article in the Northern Territory  News  of 28 September 1978. It states: 
Northern Land Council Manager,  Mr Alex  Bishaw, today issued a statement fully retracting a comment he attributed to ACTU  President, Mr Bob  Hawke, at a meeting of the NLC two weeks ago. 

 Mr Bishaw said: 'It is true that I recently repeated a statement that I had been led to believe had been said by  Mr Hawke  while he was in Darwin recently. 
This was to the effect that  Mr Hawke  had said that if the Northern Land Council did not sign the Ranger agreement the Government would " Pin its ears back " '. 
He was saying this to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Land Council to frighten them because of the Government's action. The article continues: 
This was said by me to support my advice to the council that if the council rejected the negotiated Ranger agreement they would not necessarily be supported by all unions. 
I said this in that context and because I had been led to believe those words were said by  Mr Hawke. 

 Mr Bishaw retracted that statement after  Mr Hawke  threatened to take libel action. I am saying clearly that  Mr Bishaw  is unfit to be an officer of the Northern Land Council. He lied to the Aboriginals of the Northern Land Council. That is one lie that I have already pinned down. He admits that he lied to the Northern Land Council. There is other evidence on tape that the Minister, if he were a Minister worthy of his responsibility, would investigate and then take action against this man. The Minister should not say that  I  have falsely charged him. The Minister also attacked a member of my personal staff.  I  have already dealt with that in another personal explanation. Clearly the Minister is wild because the Aboriginal people are standing up for their rights and at this stage will not allow his Government to mine uranium on their land. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable gentleman was hardly explaining where he had been misrepresented. 
-The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  seems to think that he has all the answers to the questions of the uranium industry; that unless uranium is exported the industries of the world will fail. Sad to relate, the major element that will defeat the uranium industry in the world will be that of its economics. More and more, the true costs of the nuclear industry are being exposed. For instance, only in the last few weeks has the waste at Maralinga been exposed. Honourable members opposite may laugh, but what will be the cost of policing that nuclear waste for the next 300,000 years? What are the real costs of enrichment and waste disposal to the nuclear power industry? These are the costs that, more and more, have to be taken into consideration. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! There is no point of order. 
Let me answer that scurrilous intervention. Let us be clear on this. This honourable gentleman from Bendigo asks about the Soviet Union. The truth is that more than half of all the enriched uranium in Western Europe is treated in the Soviet Union. When the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development wish to have uranium enriched in the Soviet Union everything seems to be all right, but when the honourable member for Bendigo wishes to indulge in a Red witch hunt he likes to make what he calls his personal score, making innuendoes against me. As far as I am concerned, the whole of the nuclear power industry in the Western world, which we can do something about, should be stopped. All citizens of the world should be able to protest against it, and I am sure that eventually world opinion will stop the nuclear power industries in even the communist world as well as in the noncommunist world. The whole question of nuclear waste is unresolved. It will affect the whole of humanity for evermore. 

 Government members interjecting- 

The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
Other honourable members have been heard in peace by the Committee but since I rose there has been a continual run of interjections. I shall give figures on some of the estimates, or the guesstimates, of the need for nuclear power. It was suggested back in 1970 that Organisation for Economic Co-opertion and Development countries alone would need 600,000 megawatts of nuclear generated electricity annually by 1985. By the time the first Fox report was presented in 1976 the estimate was down to 400,000 megawatts being needed by 1985. But in May 1977 the OECD estimates were down to 225,000 megawatts. This is a decline of 44 per cent over the previous year or 60 per cent over seven years. There was an exponential growth in the world economy in the late 1960s and early 1970s with a corresponding growth in the need for energy. Now because the world economy has flattened out there is generally not the need for greater energy in those countries. Order after order for nuclear generating plants is being cancelled in the United States. The orders are failing and in fact the nuclear component industry is under threat. The great issue that this Government has to answer - 

 Government members interjecting- 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  Honourable members on my right were heard in silence and the honourable member for Reid has the same right to be heard in silence. 
Let us look at the report of the Ranger inquiry, which the Whitlam Government set up. Finding 3 of the first Fox report states: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
That warning was given in the third finding of the Fox report. Every time I quote this finding and try to tell the Government of the interrelationship of urnaium mining with the nuclear power industry and nuclear weapons it does not want to hear about it. However, I will refer the Government back again to the third finding of the first Fox report. The trouble is that the Government does not know the answers to these unresolved problems. We of the Labor Party have said that these problems need to be resolved before we mine uranium. We have said that the problems of waste disposal and the proliferation of nuclear weapons are still unresolved. The whole question of the economics of the industry in Australia is not yet known. The question of the attitude of the Aboriginal people to uranium rnining is still unresolved. The environmental problem of the Kakadu National Park also is unresolved. We should not mine uranium until these issues are resolved. 
Nuclear waste disposal is such a problem that the United States of America at present has 74 million gallons of toxic liquid waste from its testing of nuclear weapons in the atmosphere with which it does not know what to do. That is the situation in the United States of America. Yet the Government says there is no problem. The United States of America once had three reprocessing plants. One was controlled and run by the Getty oil company in West Valley, New York State. Another was run by the General Electric company in Morris, Illinois and a third was run by the Allied-General company at Barnwell in South Carolina. These reprocessing plants were closed down by the Carter Administration because of the danger involved. Therefore at this stage there is no way at all, in the United States, of resolving the problem of nuclear waste. This Government first set out on a similar policy to that of the Carter administration. It said that it would not allow any of its uranium to be reprocessed. Initially it looked as though the Australian Government was going to support  President  Carter and his policy. However, gradually we find that the Government has given way on its policy of no reprocessing. On the one hand the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that the problem of nuclear waste has been solved with what is called vitrification. But to use this system of vitrification as a solution to the nuclear waste problem the waste first must be reprocessed. This process would produce not only unburnt uranium but also plutonium. Therefore this again would add to the spread of nuclear weapons. All I am saying is that the position of sanity is to support the Australian Labor Party's policy on uranium mining, which is that uranium should not be minded until all these problems have been solved, and indeed so many of the problems are still unresolved. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 August 1 978: 
1 ) Has the Utah Mining Company acquired rights to the El Sherana uranium mine in the Alligator Rivers Region of the Northern Territory. 
Does the company now propose to commence diamond drilling. 
If so, is the location of the proposed drilling within the Gimbat pastoral lease, the significance of which to the Kakadu National Park has been admitted by the Government. 
Has the Northern Territory Government requested that it be given control of the Gimbat and neighbouring Goodparla pastoral leases. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 August 1 978: 
1 ) Has the Government refused a request by the Australian Conservation Foundation and the Northern Territory Environment Council to send a representative to the Workshop on Environmental Studies in the Alligator Rivers Region being conducted by the Supervising Scientist this week. 
Have mining company representatives been invited to attend the seminar. 
Will the Alligator Rivers environmental monitoring program be conducted so as to prevent scrutiny by public environmental organisations. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) What is the present staffing level of the Office of the Supervising Scientist. 
How many research scientists are presently on the staff of the Office of the Supervising Scientists. 
What is the 30 June 1979 staff ceiling target for the same Office. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Has the Government adopted the recommendation concerning environmental monitoring of the Alligator Rivers Region contained on page 293 of the Second Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, that a group of  experts  from the relevant scientific fields specified in Chapter S be assembled as soon as possible to advise on the selection of those biological, chemical and physical observations likely to be of most practical value to the monitoring program. 
If such a group of experts has been assembled, what are the names, qualifications and fields of expertise of the members. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 September 1 978: 
1 ) What progress has been achieved in the development of a comprehensive meteorological, hydrological water quality model of the Magela system in the Alligator Rivers Region. 
Would the model as presently constituted permit accurate prediction of the conditions in which contaminants released at the Ranger site will be flushed beyond the northern end of the Magela plains. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978. 
1 ) Did the Ambassador-at-Large for Nuclear Affairs submit a report to the Government concerning safety aspects of the nuclear power plant which is under construction in the Bataan province of the Philippines. 
If so, will he table the report. 
) Can he say if there has been opposition to construction of the nuclear power plant by citizens of the Bataan province; if so, has he taken any steps to investigate whether human rights violations have occurred during the planning or construction of the plant. 
-I preface my question to the Prime Minister by reminding him of the statement he made in this House on 21 Septemberthat the Government had demonstrated its commitment to the Northern Land Council under the land rights legislation and that the Government's policies in relation to land rights would be maintained and continued. Is it a fact that under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act the Northern Land Council must be satisfied that traditional land owners understand the nature and purpose of the draft Ranger agreement and as a group consent to it? Is it also a fact that any Aboriginal community that may be affected by the signing of the agreement has been consulted and has had an opportunity to express its views to the Land Council before the Council decides whether to sign the agreement? Can the Prime Minister say which Aboriginal communities have been provided with details of the draft Ranger agreement in their own language or in a simplified English form? When were these details provided? 
-Over the last few weeks a number of charges and many innuendos have been made by the Government regarding the Australia Labor Party and Aboriginal opposition to urnium mining in the Northern Territory. These charges are not only false but also an insult to the Aboriginal people and their ability to conduct their own affairs. The suggestion that Aboriginal opposition and resistance to uranium mining is something which has just recently been stirred up by the Labor Party does not stand up to any examination. Not one substantial bit of evidence has been put forward to support this claim. 
Let us look at what has actually happened. It was a full 17 months ago that the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry commissioners reported that traditional Aboriginal land owners in the Ranger area were opposed to mining on their land. I stress to those honourable members in the chamber that this is clearly set out on page 9 of the second Fox report. Eight weeks ago a white Australian equalled by few in his experience in Aboriginal affairs,  Dr H.  C. Coombs, warned the Australian Government that a failure to permit traditional decision-making processes to proceed would result in grievance, hostility, and possibly violence. But the Government ignored this advice. It misrepresented the situation because it was so confident that it could bully and con Aboriginal people into signing a one-sided agreement. The Government's strategy has not worked but it has gone to great lengths to try to confuse the people and to make it work. i charge that it is this Government, and its Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  that has intimidated and interfered with the Northern Land Council, both directly and indirectly, through its man in the Northern Land Council, its white manager,  Mr Alex  Bishaw. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs said in the House on Tuesday that  Mr Bishaw  had provided balance in his advice to the Northern Land Council. Let us look at some of the advice which the Minister considers to be balanced. At the Red Lillies meeting of the Northern Land Council, which was persuaded on 14 September to ratify the Ranger agreement,  Mr Bishaw-  I quote from a transcript of his address- said: 
On Monday before coming out here I spoke to officers in the Government who sit in on Cabinet meetings when Ministers are being briefed on matters such as Ranger. 
The majority of the Cabinet favours in the event that you do not sign this agreement, the majority of the Cabinet favours not negotiation, not arbitration but simply changing the legislation. 
That was said by the white manager of the Northern Land Council talking to Aboriginal people to try to create fear amongst them. Does the Minister consider this to be balanced advice? He has denied that any member of his staff or Department said any such thing. Either  Mr Bishaw  presented a distorted picture to the Land Council meeting or the Minister is guilty of misleading the House, or intimidation. At the Red Lillies meeting, referring to changes in the legislation  Mr Bishaw  went on to say: 
The danger in that is they have done it six times already in the process of this negotiation. 
That is a mislading statement. He was equating the six uranium Acts with changes in the land rights legislation to weaken the Land Council. It is a deliberately confusing statement. Referring to the Ranger inquiry, he said: 
The public inquiry has said the Government should proceed to mine Ranger. 
This also is false. At no point in either of the Ranger inquiries was any such recommendation made. The Minister said in the House on Tuesday that  Mr Bishaw  believed the Land Council should be free of party politics. Let me quote another one of  Mr Bishaw  's statements to the Red Lillies meeting. He said: 
A Labor government set up the Ranger Inquiry. When they lost the election they turned against the findings of the inquiry. 
This also is false. It is a politically partisan statement. It is so false to suggest that the Ranger inquiry recommended that mining proceed and that the ALP turned on that recommendation. For all the Minister's support of  Mr Bishaw,  he has to recognise that  Mr Bishaw,  under the challenge of being sued by  Mr Bob  Hawke for libel, admitted that he lied to the Red Lillies meeting of the Northern Land Council. I quote form the Northern Territory  News  of 28 September.  Mr Bishaw  said: 
It is true that I recently repeated a statement that I had been led to believe had been said by  Mr Hawke  while he was in Darwin recently. 
This was to the effect that  Mr Hawke  had said that if the Northern Land Council did not sign the Ranger agreement the Government would 'Pin its ears back '. 
This was said by me to support my advice to the council that if the council rejected the negotiated Ranger agreement they would not necessarily be supported by all unions. 
I said this in that context and because I had been led to believe those words were said by  Mr Hawke. 
In speaking to  Mr Hawke  today, he assured me that he had not at any time made any such statement and I accept his assurance absolutely and retract my statement. 
We can only ask  Mr Bishaw  how many of his other statements he would stand by if he were challenged. This admission in itself is misleading. When  Mr Bishaw  was addressing the Northern Land Council he did not qualify his advice by saying that somebody else had told him that  Mr Hawke  had done such and such a thing. He said it directly. One has to listen only to the tapes to know that the man is a liar of the worst order. I quote from another part of his evidence regarding trade unions which reads: 
The bulk of telegrams that have been received are from trade unions not affiliated with the most powerful trade union group in Australia- the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
This is a further lie. ACTU affiliated unions throughout the country have telegrammed support to the Northern Land Council. Of course,  Mr Bishaw  has always filed this sort of document out of sight. He has refused consistently to pass such information on to Aboriginal communities. I call on the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to listen to the tapes of  Mr Bishaw  's address and to make them available to an independent inquiry to judge who is guilty of manipulation and intimidation. If the Government wants to act the transcripts will be available. 
It is of no use the Minister saying that  Mr Bishaw  is not a public servant or that it is not his responsibility to see that Aboriginal communities are consulted in their own language. He has a responsibility as the Minister administering the land rights legislation to see that the terms of that legislation are observed. He cannot escape that responsibility. The land rights legislation requires consultation with the traditional land owners and other Aboriginal communities before any agreement can be signed. For that to occur those people must be provided with information about the draft Ranger agreement. That information should be in a reasonable form and if possible in the Aborigines' own language and not the complex legal language which was reported in this week's  National Times  newspaper. These communities must be given time to understand and discuss the proposals. The Minister cannot escape from the responsibility to see that this takes place. He endorsed these procedures on 22 September and said that while they proceeded an arbitrator would not be appointed. It is time he stopped pressuring the Council and allowed Aboriginal communities to go through the procedures which are spelt out in the Aboriginal land rights legislation. 
In the few brief moments I have left I wish to put on record some of the lies which have been used in the smear campaign against the Australian Labor Party. In another place  Senator Bonner  claimed that  Mr Bob  Collins handed out to the Press a 2 1 -point plan for consultation after the Northern Land Council meeting on Monday, 2 October. This is also a lie. It was handed out by  Mr Dick  Malwagu of Goulburn Island who prepared the document with the help of his lawyers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The estimates being debated are for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. Under the last two Fraser Ministries- I am talking now of the Ministry from 1975 to 1977 and the Ministry since that time- no department has taken more drastic cuts or been butchered more than this Department. The former Department of Environment and Conservation, the former Department of Urban and Regional Development, and in some respects the former Department of Tourism and Recreation were joined together to form this Department. The sad situation is that it has a very low priority from this Government, and I am not casting any reflection on the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  when 1 say that he is one of the junior Ministers in a Ministry of 27. The Department has no muscle. It has no authority at all on economic matters. The former Department of Urban and Regional Development was a major policy department and had an enormous say in economic matters and resource allocation. 
One has to understand the philosophy of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to understand why this Department has taken such a drastic beating. If one looks at the actual funding between 1975-76 and 1978-79, one sees that expenditure on growth centres has been cut by 73 per cent, on urban rehabilitation by 76 per cent, and on flood mitigation by 68 per cent. The area improvement programs have been eliminated completely and the expenditure on land commissions has been cut by nearly 80 per cent, on other urban development by nearly 80 per cent, on the development of Aboriginal community amenities by 9 1 per cent, on protection of the environment by nearly 40 per cent, and on sewerage and garbage assistance by 8 1 per cent. Those are the percentage figures. If one looks at the total figures for urban and regional development and the environment one finds that the expenditure in money terms in 1975-76 was $408m. This year the expenditure will be $108m. Those figures do not relate to real money terms because with inflationary pressures that $108m would be worth about half that amount today. If one considers this matter as a percentage of Budget outlays, in 1975-76 allocations to the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the Department of Environment and Conservation represented 7.4 per cent of Budget outlays. On the estimates this year, that figure will come down to 4 per cent. 
That is the sorry record of this Government in the field of urban and regional development. There has been a cut in public works programs. There has been a cut in housing. There has been a cut in employment. It is a part of this Government's economic policy to squeeze the public sector and to create a pool of unemployment to try to bring down inflation. To illustrate those points more graphically and so that people who read  Hansard  will be able to understand them, I seek leave to have tables incorporated in Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810194_69_9.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810194_70_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810194_71_11.jpg"></graphic>

If we are to provide a stimulus to the economy, if we are to get things moving again, it is important that we have selective government expenditure. It is important that we spend money on urban programs. It is important that we try to catch up with the sewerage backlog because that represents labour-intensive work. If we spend money in these industries there is a multiplying effect which stimulates employment within the economy. The Opposition states quite clearly that both men and materials are available and this Government should take the initiative to provide selective stimulus to the economy in order to get things under way. As I have said, when the Government starts to spend money in these sectors there is a flow-on effect. On the question of housing, if one looks at what governments have spent on public housing one finds that in 1974-75 the Labor Government allocated 2. 1 per cent of the Budget expenditure to public housing. What is the situation this year? It is estimated that the Government will spend about 1.1 per cent this year. Last year the Government made available $390m for public housing and this year that amount has been cut to $3 16m. If one looks at other allocations for housing one finds that defence service homes expenditure is down by $ 10.7m over last year and housing expenditure in the Territories is down by $5. 3m. As to the homes savings grants scheme, which was the Government's answer for young people who wanted to get homes, last year $35m was made available and this year the allocation has been cut back to $20m. A Cabinet submission was made last year, prior to the discussion of the Budget, that an amount of $76m would be needed if the Government was to meet all the applications under the home savings grants scheme. Instead it made only $20m available, which means that the majority of people who are waiting for the loan and have been told that they will get it on 1 July next year will find then that 

<graphic href="111131197810194_71_11.jpg"></graphic>

the money is not available because there are too many applicants. 
This Government stands condemned more because of the drastic cuts it has made to these programs than because of anything else. If we look at the question of local government, which also is covered by this Department, we find that in the last year of the Labor Government the money made available to local government as a percentage of the previous year's income tax returns was 2.89 per cent, but this year the Government has made available only 1.52 per cent of tax revenue. It promised that it would build up that figure to 2 per cent. Again, this is an area that needs money because it will be spent in labour-intensive industries and will provide an immediate stimulus to the unemployment sector of our community. 
As far as the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development is concerned, if the Government involved itself right across the board in the problems of local government and in the problems of the States, particularly in the public works sector, it would have an enormous influence. I believe that we will overcome the problems of both our capital cities and our provincial cities only if there is a real spirit of co-operation between the three levels of government, working together with people's organisations and with the private sector. That is the only way in which we are going to solve our urban problems and we have to do it by working in a co-operative fashion. The sad situation is that this Government has withdrawn completely from urban and regional development matters and has left it to the States and local government to solve the problems. The Government itself has not become involved. The States have been given the responsibility but they have not been given the money. This is indicated by the figures to which I have referred. The sad situation is that the major cutbacks by this Government have had an enormous influence on the growth of unemployment in this country. I believe that the Government stands condemned for the Estimates for this Department. 
-I rise to support the call made by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  for the Government to make more money available to overcome the housing shortage situation and stimulate the housing industry. We know that activity in the housing industry is at a 10-year low, that there are unemployed tradesmen and that surplus material is lying idle. Therefore, I believe that the views expressed by a back bencher on the Government side of the chamber, criticising the Government for not making available sufficient funding for housing, should be supported. Also, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  in speaking tonight on  PM,  again criticised the Government for not making more money available in the public works and housing sectors. He also is to be commended. A revolt is coming among Government supporters who seek greater expenditure on housing and public works so that the economy can be stimulated and the present unemployment situation can be dealt with. But I point out to the honourable member for Bendigo that in speaking of the needed money being made available through the terminating building societies he indicates that he does not understand that that money is made available to them by way of the Government through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. The amount that was made available under that agreement last year for this purpose was $390m. This year it has been cut back to $3 16m. It is distributed under a formula whereby 70 per cent is allocated to the housing commissions and the other 30 per cent is allocated through the terminating building societies. 
Let us examine in greater depth the actual amounts that the States receive for housing. Even as far back as 1974-75 the total amount they received represented 2.1 per cent of the Government's overall budget expenditure. This year the appropriation under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement represents only 1.1 per cent of total Budget expenditure. The actual sum made available to the States for housing in 1974-75 was $385m. There was provision for repayment of advances in the amount of $ 1 9m and an interest repayment of $88m, leaving a net amount of $278m. For 1978-79, $3 16m has been made available. Of this sum, $3 lm represents repayment of advances and $147m represents interest repayment, leaving a net payment to the States of only $137m. That compares with a net of $278m in 1974-75. One can appreciate the dire straits in which the housing industry finds itself. I believe that what the honourable member for Bendigo has said- that the Government should make more money available- is very important indeed. 
I wish now to discuss the figures in more detail. The Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  said in his Budget speech that the Government hoped to stimulate the housing sector through the advances made by way of the savings banks. The ratio was to be changed from 45 per cent to 40 per cent. The truth is that at present it stands at 53 per cent. Even if the Government gets it down, if things improve, to 40 per cent, one must also consider the amount that is actually being loaned for new housing- and I emphasise that money for new housing is needed to stimulate the economy. Last month only about 30 per cent of all loans made available through the savings banks related to new housing. In the case of the permanent building societies the figure was 3 1 per cent. For the savings banks it was actually 33 per cent. On the latest figures they have fallen even further. Last month only 28 per cent of all loans allocated through the savings banks were for new housing. Therefore, even if the ratio were reduced it would not stimulate the construction of new houses. 
On the other hand, if we look at the proposition that has been put forward by the honourable member for Bendigo and consider making the money available through the public sector, through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, we find again that of the 70 per cent that goes to the State housing commissions at least 85 per cent goes into new housing, and 15 per cent into land. The money that goes through the terminating building societies - 
Again, 57 per cent of all loans that are made through the terminating building societies go into new housing. Therefore, at least 75 per cent of all Government money that is spent through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement is devoted to new housing. That would mean that for every dollar spent in the public sector through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, one would have to spend $2.50 in the private sector. Therefore, one would not achieve the same stimulus. 
The honourable member for Bendigo also spoke about the need for money to be made available for new loans. He talked about people earning up to $250 a week finding it difficult to get loans, or to meet the required monthly repayments on a housing loan. It is even worse than that. In the western suburbs of Sydney a normal home costs about $35,000. Even if one had a $5,000 deposit, the repayment on a 25-year loan of $30,000 at an interest rate of 10 per cent would be $272 a month. If the weekly repayment is to represent only 25 per cent of the weekly income it means that people earning less than 135 per cent of average weekly earnings would be disqualified. It is important that the Government introduce housing schemes which will allow people to get their foot on the first rung of the ladder to purchase their first home. The only way in which that can be done, to my knowledge, is by way of a deferred mortgage repayment scheme. Very few people default on their housing loans. Therefore, we have to have more confidence in people and we have to formulate a housing policy whereby in the early stages people do not pay as much in repayments as they do in later years. I believe that under the deferred mortgage payment scheme, with government guarantees, more people can be housed. Otherwise these people will be forced to put their names on the housing commission waiting lists. Already 100,000 families are on those lists and the number is growing faster and faster each year. Because of the economic conditions prevailing, more and more people are going to be forced on to the housing commission waiting lists. As I said before, this Government is cutting back on expenditure on public housing instead of increasing it so as to give a stimulus to the housing industry. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
Is it a fact that the June 1979 staff ceiling for his Department, including the Australian Heritage Commission, is 500 and that this represents a reduction of nearly 23 per cent on the 30 June 1978 staff level compared with an overall proposed public service reduction of around 2.3 per cent. 
Is it also a fact that the June 1 979 staff ceiling target for his Department has been reduced by 100 from the provisional staff ceiling announced on 2 June 1978. 
What are the functions and operations which will be reduced or eliminated as a consequence of these staff ceiling reductions. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Did he say on 2 1 August 1 978 that no activity beyond the permitted survey had been undertaken by the Pancontinental Mining Company in relation to the Arnhem Highway extension; if so, was this statement based solely on assurances provided by the company. 
If the statement was not based solely on assurances provided by the company, will he specify what action he took to verify the company 's assurances. 
Will he assure the House that no clearing has taken place beyond the centre survey line. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. In view of the statement by the Deputy Premier of South Australia that information made available to his Government regarding radioactive materials at Maralinga did not appear to be of such a nature that it should remain classified, will the Government now request the British Government to declassify all aspects of the Pearce report other than those details which would disclose security arrangements or the location of material which could constitute a public hazard? Does the Minister agree that the public can have little confidence in the Government's assurances of safety while it refuses to disclose full details of the waste and contamination remaining at Maralinga? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control Tor the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
If no arrangements Tor recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of, procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements are made in his Department and statutory authorities under his control for the recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
2 ) If no arrangements for recycling presently exist, will he implement, or investigate the implementation of procedures for the recycling of waste materials. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) In view of his statement to the House on Thursday, 1 June 1978, concerning the marketing of uranium in which he said that at present only formal development approval has been granted to the Ranger Project, what form has development approval for the Ranger Project taken. 
Has the Government specifically rejected the request of the Northern Land Council that if uranium mining must go ahead, that the smaller Nabarlek mine proceed first so that traditional Aboriginal land owners can access the effects of mining on their lands. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the likely failure of the internal settlement in Rhodesia, which is due to be achieved by 31 December 1978? Is he also aware of the serious implications this might have for Australia in terms of refugees? It is estimated that at least 100,000 whites may wish to leave Rhodesia, and already 60,000 are in the process of making application to come to Australia. In view of the impact on race relations and the labour market of such an influx into Australia, will the Minister discuss with Commonwealth and other governments the possibility of early action on an international basis to achieve international refugee arrangements to cope with this expected exodus, as a unilateral response by Australia would be undesirable? 
-Last Friday, the State Housing Ministers met with the Federal Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  (Mr Groom)  in Adelaide to try to overcome the serious crisis that has developed in the housing industry in Australia and, in particular, to discuss the seriousness of the crisis in the public housing sector. The housing industry as a whole is at the lowest it has been for 12 years. For instance, the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry has stated that enough men and material are available to build 150,000 houses a year. This year, only 113,000 houses have been built. In the public sector, there were 10,888 commencements last year. That was a dramatic drop from the number of commencements- 16,148- in the public sector in 1974-75 under the Labor Government. This year the State Ministers estimate that there will be no more than 6,000 commencements in the public housing sector although nearly 100,000 families are on housing commission waiting lists. The Ministers agreed to seek further finance from the Commonwealth to alleviate the plight of the public housing sector.The Federal Minister had to leave the meeting early. As soon as he left the meeting, he issued a lengthy Press statement which had been prepared in Canberra, before he attended the meeting. The statement he issued repudiated everything he had agreed to with the Ministers at the meeting that day. After the State Ministers had completed their meeting, they became aware of the Federal Minister's Press Statement. They became so angry that the re-convened the meeting and drafted a telegram to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The telegram is in these words: 
I also would like to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table showing housing commencements and completions by State housing authorities from 1974-75 to 1977-78. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811216_31_1.jpg"></graphic>

One will see that in 1974-75 under the Labor Government 16,148 houses were commenced; last year under this Government 10,888 houses were commenced. As I suggested earlier, in fact about 6,000 houses will be commenced this year. This Government is caught in a very serious predicament; it is in a crisis situation in the housing industry. Already I have talked about this year being the all time low in 12 years in the housing industry. The Prime Minister has promised a reduction of 2 per cent in interest rates. This was an election promise, but in truth it was an election gimmick. He knew the serious situation that would arise at the time of making that commitment. The dollar is under pressure and he knew that it would come under pressure. There is currently a deficit in the current account of the balance of payments of about $3,500m because the Government cannot get the capital inflow that it needs. It is already borrowing in excess of $2,000m this year. 
Interest rates overseas generally are increasing. Reduced interest rates here may exacerbate 
Australian liquidity and worsen the balance of payments. Since late 1977 interest rates in the United States of America, the United Kingdom and the European Economic Community have moved up sharply relative to interest rates in Australia and those in strong balance of payments countries, such as Germany and Japan. If there is a broadly based downward movement in private sector interest rates in Australia it could tend to reduce the net inflow of capital from the traditional major sources, such as the United States of America, the United Kingdom and the Eurodollar market. At the same time declining interest rates will encourage a speculative outflow of capital from Australia overseas. Yet this Government is strongly committed to increasing private capital inflow into Australia. Such are the contradictions of Australia's dependent role in the international capitalist economy and such are the contradictions of conservative economic strategy in these times. 
The Government budgeted for a target growth rate of 6 per cent to 8 per cent in the money supply for 1978-79. Currently the growth in the money supply is miming at about IS per cent. In the second half of this financial year there will need to be a squeeze on the availability of credit to achieve the money supply target of the Budget. The conjunction of a lowered interest rate and tight credit will not help the building industry at all; rather it will lead to a further depletion of capital that is available for new housing. During Question Time this morning the Prime Minister tried to stress that the Government's policy to reduce the prescribed asset ratio for savings banks from 45 per cent to 40 per cent will in fact stimulate the housing sector. Again this is false. Let us look at the facts. At present the minimum ratio is still above 50 per cent- it is about 52 per cent. This has occurred despite the reduction in the official minimum ratio from 50 per cent to 45 per cent in May 1977 and a further reduction to 40 per cent which was announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget this year. 
There are several reasons why this reduction will not give the stimulus to the building industry that is anticipated by this Government. The savings banks will want to hold on to their Commonwealth Government securities with the prospect of capital gains and the suggestion that interest rates will fall. There is no developed market to allow the savings banks to sell their semi-government securities. This means that savings banks are locked in and will hold these securities until maturity. Therefore the savings banks will prefer to redirect the growth of deposits towards meeting the new ratio rather than to reduce the level of their holdings of government securities to meet this new ratio. Increased loans will not particularly find their way into new dwelling construction. At present only 30 per cent of housing loans from savings banks are being used to finance new dwellings. 
Let me quickly look at the question of the stimulus to the housing sector because of the unemployment situation. The deterioration of the building and construction industry is now evident. Commencements and completions are at a twelve year low. In November 1975 when the Government took office employment in the building and construction industry was 381,300 persons; in August 1978 the number of persons employed was 348,000- a fall of over 9 per cent, or 32,000 people. Between August 1977 and August 1978 there was a decline of 8,200 people in employment in that industry. Therefore we know how serious the situation is. Apprentices are not being absorbed into the industry. If there is any stimulus at all to the housing sector there will not be the skilled tradesmen to take over the development. The Minister and the Government stand condemned on this issue. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-At the outset I protest against a cognate debate involving the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill (No. 2), the statement by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  on the Ranger agreement and also the statement on the Kakadu National Park by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  The restriction of the debate on these matters shows the real hypocrisy of the Government. The enforcement of a cognate debate on this occasion is a further restriction on our freedom. Each matter in itself is very important. The Government has always restricted debate on these important issues. 
The latest amendment to the Atomic Energy Act reveals more clearly than ever before that the Government's single-minded strategy to lock Australia into the international nuclear fuel cycle and to repress the opposition of any citizen who threatens that strategy. It demonstrates more clearly that the Fraser Government does not care a damn about the very serious hazards associated with uranium mining, the lifestyle of the Aboriginal people in Arnhem Land or the delicate environment of the Alligator Rivers region. Most significantly, it demonstrates that the Government's strategy is failing and that prospective buyers of uranium are worried about the policy of the Labor Party and the very deepseated opposition to uranium development in the Australian community. They know that Labor will be in government by 1 980. That is the whole basis of their fear. The Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  in his second reading speech was blatant in his admission that the Atomic Energy Act is totally inappropriate for the commencement of mining. He said: 
While the Act was designed to allow rnining, detailed provisions to cover rnining on a commercial basis were never included. 
I ask members of the Government and Government supporters to read pages 248 to 252 of the second Fox report. That report clearly sets out the Ranger commissioners' opposition to the use of the Atomic Energy Act. The Government is quick to intrude and to introduce amendments in response to the wishes of rnining interests. We can only ask how many more amendments to this Bill we can expect. The Government shows no sign of amending the repressive, Cold War provisions of Part IV of the Atomic Energy Act. The inescapable conclusion is that the Government intends to use these repressive powers. It intends to intimidate people opposed to uranium mining. It intends to deny basic civil rights and hard won industrial rights to meet the interests of the corporate rnining sector. That is the reason for patching up the Atomic Energy Act to apply to mining at Ranger. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said that it has to be clearly understood that the  mining  of uranium is different from any other aspect of mining. The Labor Party opposes this Bill. We oppose it because it is a vehicle to mine uranium. We will continue to oppose uranium mining while the serious economic, social, biological, genetic, environmental and technical problems associated with the development of nuclear power remain unresolved. We oppose this Bill because the Atomic Energy Act, as the Fox report pointed out, is totally inappropriate for this purpose. This Bill denies free speech. It denies the right to strike. It makes an outlaw of any worker, union or Australian citizen who does not fully comply with the mining and export of uranium. We oppose this Bill because it strengthens the hand of the developer to resist environmental regulations. Clauses 4 and S of the Bill weaken the ability of the Government to introduce more restrictive controls if unacceptable environmental damage occurs. 
The Ranger inquiry specifically recommended that environmental controls be regularly reviewed and strengthened if necessary. The Government has rejected that recommendation. It has sold out to the mining interests. We are opposed to this Bill because it is another desperate attempt to lock Australia into the international nuclear fuel cycle which is controlled by the largest transnational corporations in this universe. It is an attempt to sell Austraiian sovereignty and to take the basic decisions out of the hands of the Austraiian people and the Australian Government. Clauses 4 and S of the Bill are an attempt to prevent a future Labor Government from revoking the authority to mine at Ranger. I remind the House of recommendation 6 of the first Ranger report. Might 
I say that at that time the Government committed itself to that recommendation. This is what recommendation 6 says: 
A decision to mine and sell uranium should not be made unless the Commonwealth Government ensures that the Commonwealth can at any time, on the basis of considerations of the nature discussed in the Report, immediately terminate those activities, permanently, indefinitely or for a specified period. 
The Labor Party endorses that recommendation. The Labor Party will act in accordance with that recommendation when elected to power in 1980 and will repudiate any uranium contracts entered into by the Fraser Government, unless all the unsolved problems have been solved. All of us in this House know that these problems are so serious that they cannot be solved. How can one solve the problem of the threat of the spread of nuclear weapons? To those people who want to make a fast buck, I again give the answer Recommendation 3 of the first Ranger report. What did it say? It said: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
This phoney Government really wants to make a fast buck, and it does not care about the spread of nuclear weapons or about the future of the human race. I remind the Deputy Prime Minister- the Minister responsible for this legislation- of his statement on 25 August 1977. He said: 
The Government will therefore always be in a position to move immediately to terminate uranium development permanently, indefinitely, or for a specific period as recommended by the Ranger inquiry. 
That was the Leader of the National Country Party, the Deputy Prime Minister. Does he now renege on or disagree with that statement of 25 August 1977? Let there be no doubt that the Labor Party's policy is firm. It is a grass roots policy. That is its real strength. We will not and cannot be frustrated by legal trickery of the Fraser Government or the mining companies. 
These amendments to the Atomic Energy Act do not prevent a Labor government from implementing Labor's policy. Furthermore, it will not be legally possible for the Fraser Government to achieve this end. A Labor government when elected in 1980 will have a range of powers available, including the export powers and also the strength of the people- the electors who will elect us to government. We will use those powers to implement our policy. It is a popular policy amongst the people of Australia. We will seek popular support for implementing that policy. We have given warning not only to themining companies but also to the financial institutions throughout the world. Our policy is directed at the jugular vein of the financial institutions, and they know it. It is not only me stating that this is the situation; it has been stated by men such as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and other leading members of the Labor Party. It is our policy. We are united behind that policy and we stand firmly by it. 
The Government's panic changes to the Atomic Energy Act are a response to the concern of the potential uranium investors. It is not only Labor's policy and the imminence of a Labor government which have worried them. They are worried a great deal by this situation. They know that their dream of a uranium bonanza is rapidly fading as people all over the world are questioning the unsolved problems and saying no to nuclear power. They know that the nuclear industry is being forced to account for the hidden and sometimes unknown costs of uranium enrichment, waste disposal and the decommissioning of nuclear reactors. They know that the nuclear industry will not pay those costs. 
Let us look at the bonanza predictions which have been made for Australian uranium. A few years ago we were told in a blaze of publicityand I stress this- that Japan would invade Australia if we did not supply uranium. The Deputy Prime Minister said that unless we made our uranium available to Japan it would invade us to get it. What is the real situation? Japan has revised its nuclear capacity for1985 from 60 gigawatts to 49 gigawatts and then to 35 gigawatts. We know now that it will be down to something like 23 gigawatts by 1985. That is 8 per cent of Japan's estimated energy requirements at that time. It almost had enough uranium already contracted to supply 60 gigawatts. Japan will not be needing significant amounts of new Australian uranium until the late 1980s, if at all. The trend in Japan is against nuclear power. 
The West Germans delivered the same message when  President  Scheel was here several weeks ago. The leader of the trade union movement in West Germany told the leader of the trade union movement in Australia,  Mr Bob  Hawke, that the trade union movement in West Germany was reassessing its attitude to nuclear energy. We are also treated to great predictions of uranium sales to Iran. Of course, the main reason the Shah wanted it was for his nuclear weapons program, not for nuclear energy. Now the Iranian people are demanding a greater share of the country's wealth. The last government was forced to cut back drastically on its nuclear energy plans. 
Even the Australian Mining Industry Council is starting to admit that there will be no uranium bonanza in this country or elsewhere. In a recent report it said: 
At this stage the probabilities are that: 
1 ) Both capital and operating costs of the mines are likely to be at least double those projected by Fox- 
That means the Fox report- 
the sharp decline in world demand, coupled with a large number of major uranium discoveries abroad, have resulted in a serious over-estimation of both the volume of export sales and the price. 
The Government's argument that the world desperately needs our uranium has been totally discredited by Herman Kahn, a natural, normal ally of this Government. Last week he told a parliamentary group of which I was a member that there is no world energy crisis; that the world has extensive natural gas reserves. That answers the question put forward by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume). 
The trend throughout the world is away from nuclear power. This was starkly demonstrated in Austria recently when the majority of people voted against future nuclear energy. We have to keep in mind that when they voted against it they had an investment in a nuclear power station of over $500m. Yet in a referendum the people of Austria rejected nuclear power because they did not know the unknown, the problem of how to store nuclear waste and other nuclear material in the world. The Labor Party's policy recognises the problems that people throughout the world are raising. Labor in government in 1980 will close down any new uranium mine that may have been commenced, unless the unsolved problems have been solved. We reject this Bill and we reject the Government's efforts to force its uranium policy on the Australian people. 
I turn now to the gimmickry, the skulduggery, the sleight of hand and the oppression of this Government in negotiating the Ranger agreement. The Labor Party does not accept this new Ranger agreement. It is opposed to Labor policy, and we argue also that it is opposed to an Act of this Parliament. It does not accept that the Aboriginal interests have been met. We believe that the agreement was produced in violation of section 23(3) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. We believe that the agreement flies in the face of traditional Aboriginal laws. I remind the House of the words of  Dr H.  C. Coombs when he said: 
Decisions in Aboriginal society in matters outside those clearly provided for by Aboriginal law and tradition are normally made by consensus following protracted discussions within and between families, clans and other groups concerned. In the absence of such consensus, authority to make commitments on behalf of the group or groups concerned is not, indeed cannot, be given. If any person or organisation purports to make such a commitment no individual member of the group will feel any moral obligation to abide by it or to act in conformity with it. If therefore the Government proceeds to act on the basis of an agreement made under duress, by the Northern Land Council or by an arbitrator, without it being subjected to the processes required to develop a consensus, the Government and its partners in the ventures are likely to encounter situations in which individual Aborigines or groups of Aborigines who feel their rights are being infringed will, in all good conscience, act in conflict with the terms of that agreement Such situations can be productive of grievance, hostility, and, potentially, violence and will damage further the already eroded confidence of Aborigines and their friends among white Australians in the Government's expressed concern for Aboriginal welfare and undertakings to protect their interests. 
But the Government in its rush to meet the greedy wishes of the mining companies was too impatient to wait for traditional Aboriginal consensus decision making. Let there be no doubt that the Government used trickery, bullying and outright dishonesty to get a few signatures at the bottom of the agreement. The Minister said that a full meeting of the Northern Land Council agreed to accept the Ranger agreement and sign the documents if traditional owners gave their consent. However,  Mr Leo  Finlay who was at the Bamyili meeting and who is a respected and senior member of the Northern Land Council, said that the Council decided to accept the agreement if there was consultation with the communities as had been previously determined.  Mr Finlay  made it quite clear that NLC members voted on the basis that consultation would proceed, that lawyers would go to the communities to explain what is in a complex agreement. 
The Council was tricked, and I stress those words. The Minister also said that at the Oenpelli meeting the following day the traditional owners gave their consent before the agreement was signed.  Mr Leo  Finlay has said that the agreement was not discussed, that those traditional owners who were present were never asked if they agreed to sign the agreement. Neither the Minister nor the Government has replied to  Mr Finlay's  statement. It should be clearly understood in this House that there has been trickery, connivance and pressure by this Government on the Aboriginal people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The statement by the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  is very disappointing. It is disappointing not only to me and to the Opposition in general but also especially disappointing to the needy members of the defence forces. It is disappointing to the members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure whose recommendations have been largely rejected and diluted. I know how disappointing this statement must be for the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and particularly the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  who worked so hard on these recommendations. 
I say firstly that the Minister's statement shows up the Government's hypocrisy and its crude lack of concern for people in need. It shows up particularly the lack of understanding of the Minister for Construction for the problems of needy members of the defence forces. The Government's rejection of the substantive recommendations of the Committee needs to be seen in the broader context of the recent and severe downturn in the building industry generally. At a time when ample tradesmen and resources are available this Government is cutting back on defence service homes. The Government could make money available particularly to the needy. 
I refer now to the activity within the Defence Service Homes Scheme. The number of homes provided by a Labor Government under the Scheme in 1974-75 was 9,380. The number provided by this Government in 1977-78 was only 6,1 15- a drop of 35 per cent. The decrease will be even greater this year than it was last year. In 1 974-75 the Labor Government spent $ 1 30m on the Defence Services Homes Scheme. In 1977-78 this Government spent only $90.3m and under this year's Budget the Government expects to spend only $78.8m- a cut of $5 1.2m, or a reduction of 40 per cent in money terms, on the 1974-75 expenditure. If the expenditure were calculated on constant prices at the 1974-75 level the decrease would be much greater. 
At the same time the cost of buying a block of land and a home has increased from $25,456 on average in 1974-75 to $37,900 in 1977-78-an increase of some 50 per cent in only four years. The amount of money available under this Scheme for each loan has not been increased from the $15,000 level set in 1974-75 under a Labor Government. At that time the Scheme provided only 60 per cent of the value of a block of land and a house; now it provides only 40 per cent. One can see that this Scheme is only for the wealthy. The average cost of a house is $37,000 so the $ 1 5,000 will not go very far. 
Let me also remind the House of the regressive amendment that the Government has made to the legislation and the inadequate amount of money that is made available under this Scheme. As a result of the Government's action the waiting period for loans for eligible applicants has increased from 1 1 months last year to 14 months this year. The period of service necessary to qualify for a loan also has been extended from three years to six years- the additional proviso is that the ordinary defence service personnel now must serve more than six years. After serving six years they have to sign on again in order to qualify for the loan. This means that the normal rank and file serviceman has to serve something like 9 years to qualify for the loan. On the other hand an officer in the Army has to serve only six years. That is blatant discrimination by this Government, but such discrimination is not unusual. This is a sectional government, a government of discrimination. 
The amendment introduced by this Government to the Defence Service Homes Scheme also includes the penny-pinching imposition of a $75 loan application fee. Already the wealthly have better access to the scheme than do the financially needy. 
Honourable members who interject have to understand, and the honourble member for Lilley can set this out, that the Committee recommended against the $75 charge being imposed. The application charge will make the scheme more inequitable by discouraging the needy from making application. That discouragement comes on top of the inadequacy of the size of the loan-$ 1 5,000, with $ 12,000 at  VA  per cent interest and a further maximum of $3,000 at 7V4 per cent over 32 years- in relation to the price of the house in the western suburbs of Sydney, for example. The honourble member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  should know that in his electorate it is not possible to get land and a dwelling for less than $35,000. 1 agree with the Committee, which was representative of both sides of the House. It took its job seriously and did a lot of hard work, and found that there should be no application fee for those who receive grants. More broadly, I accept that the defence service housing scheme is not working equitably or efficiently. On the point of efficiency, I agree with the Committee's proposal for the appointment of a suitably qualified person from outside the Public Service to assess the relative effectiveness of the programs. 
The Minister has even acknowledged that such an appointment could have a beneficial effect on attraction and retention rates in the armed services. He acknowledged that service housing is a major source of dissatisfaction, but he rejected the proposal because it would be too costly. The whole point has been missed by the Minister and by the Government. In order to make the scheme more effective an outside program evaluator is necessary, and the Committee set that out very clearly when it said: 
Since significant sums of money are spent either directly or indirectly on the attraction and retention objectives it is very necessary to assess the relative effectiveness of the various programs in use. 
That is not the only purpose of the evaluation. I want to stress the need to ensure that the needy and not the wealthy get help from such a scheme. I have asked before in this House whether privates and colonels should be entitled to the same benefits. I ask now whether there should be some criteria of need for assessing priorities for those on the waiting list. Here again, I do not mean giving preference to wartime service personnel over peacetime service personnel. I am talking about those people most in need. That matter was dealt with in the Committee's report. I am disappointed too that the Government persists with the demarcation between peacetime and wartime service. I know that the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  has suspended that proposal because of lack of funds, but again, it is in the Act and that is one of the discriminations. The work carried out by the Committee, and it has presented a very detailed report, should have been given more understanding by the Minister and by the Government, but they have not done that. They have not shown much understanding. 
I will not say any more because I know the time is short. Two members of the Committee want to express some criticisms, I am sure, of the Government for at least not giving their recommendations more serious consideration. Therefore I can only condemn the Government generally for its whole approach to defence service homes. These homes and housing in general have received a very low priority from this Government. The Government knows that this is a time when resources of both men and material are available. It could provide money to make defence service home loans more readily available and to do away with the 14-month waiting period. If it does not do away with the 14-month waiting period, at least it should start to deal with those on the waiting list on the basis of need and not allow the colonels and those on high incomes to use this scheme to buy houses worth $80,000, $90,000 and even $100,000. Those people should not be allowed on the waiting list or at least they should be put well down the list. These loans should be dealt with more on the basis of need. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Is it a fact that the International Commission for Radiological Protection and the United States Environmental Protection Agency employ quite different criteria in the setting of radiation protection standards. 
If so, what are the major differences in the approaches of the I.C.R.P. and the United States E.P.A. in setting radiation standards. 
Do the approaches of the I.C.R.P. and the United States E.P.A. result in different safety standards for (a) radon gas in uranium mines, (b) omission of radioactive contaminants into water bodies and (c) emission of radioactive contaminants into the air. 
Which approach will be used by the Government in the regulation of uranium rnining in the Alligator Rivers Region. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) When did negotiations commence between the Commonwealth Government and the Northern Land Council concerning the Ranger Uranium Project. 
What was the date and location of each round of negotiations. 
What were the names of (a) the participants and (b) observers on behalf of (i) the Commonwealth Government and (ii) the Northern Land Council at each round of negotiations. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
When were any washings from British service aircraft which participated in nuclear tests at Christmas Island (a) transported to Maralinga and (b) buried at Maralinga. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) What works, including fencing, excavation and concrete capping, have taken place at the radioactive waste burial sites at Maralinga since the completion of Operation Brumby. 
When were these works conducted. 
What were the purposes of these works. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) What was the total expenditure of the Commonwealth before 30 June 1978 in relation to the radioactive waste and contamination resulting from British weapons tests at (a) Maralinga, (b) Monte Bello and (c) Emu. 
What was the expenditure of the Commonwealth before 30 June 1978 for (a) security and (b) monitoring and environmental surveys at (i) Maralinga (ii) Monte Bello and (iii) Emu. 
What is the estimated cost of security at (a) Maralinga (b) Monte Bello and (c) Emu between 1978 and 2000. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 24 October 1 978: 
Is it a fact that under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act the Northern Land Council must be satisfied that traditional land owners understand the nature and purpose of the draft Ranger Agreement and as a group consent to it, and that any Aboriginal community which may be affected by the signing of the agreement has been consulted and has had an opportunity to express its views to the Land Council before the Council decides whether to sign the agreement. 
Which Aboriginal communities have been provided with details of the draft Ranger Agreement in their own language or in a simplified English form and when were these details provided. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) Which airlines use Aero Shell Compound 7 or similar glycol/alcohol mixture for aircraft defrosting, at which Australian airports is it used and when did its use commence in each case. 
Have any airlines ceased using these compounds for this purpose; if so, when and for what reasons was their use terminated. 
In what form and manner are these compounds applied. 
Have there been any changes in their application during the last 5 years; if so, what are the reasons for the changes. 
How many workers have directly applied these compounds in the defrosting of aircraft. 
What protective measures are taken in the application of these compounds. 
Have there been any changes in these measures during the last 5 years; if so, when and for what reasons. 
Which authority is responsible for regulating and monitoring the health aspects of this activity. 
Have there been any incidents of ill health amongst air transport workers which may have been associated with use of these compounds; if so, what are the details of these incidents. 
10) Is he able to say in which other countries is Aero Shell Compound 7 used for aircraft defrosting in a manner and form similar to its application in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the health risks encountered by United States personnel during the United States atomic weapons testing program were greater than those encountered by British and Australian personnel at Emu, Monte Bello and Maralinga. 
Is he also able to say whether the monitoring procedures undertaken by the U.S. Government during its weapons testing program were less stringent than those undertaken at Emu, Monte Bello and Maralinga; if so, in what way did the procedures differ. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement made on the ABC program  This Day Tonight  on 14 October 1978, by a radio operator living in the Monte Bello Islands that he wasn't aware until recently that any radioactivity remained on the island and had often handled materials remaining from the British nuclear weapons tests which were conducted on the island. 
If so, what steps have been taken, or are proposed to be taken, to prevent public exposure to radiation at Monte Bello, Emu and Maralinga. 

 Mi Killen- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware that two men employed to man a transmission station on the Monte Bello Islands were interviewed by the ABC and the interview broadcast on  Four Corners  on 14 October 1978. The camp set up by the company employing the men is approximately two miles from the nearer of the two points above which the land-based nuclear devices were exploded Le., the ground zeros. The remains of British stores and plant used to construct test facilities are still to be found on the islands. 
The islands were declared radiologically safe by the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee in 1968, except for the two areas in the immediate vicinity of the ground zeros. Even these areas are safe for short-term visits. When it sought permission to establish the camp, which was granted, the company was also advised of these areas and told that entry to them could not be permitted. 
Access to the Monte Bello Islands, Emu and Maralinga is controlled by the Commonwealth. In the particular case of Monte Bello permission to visit must be obtained from the Naval Officer Commanding, Western Australia. Permission is not granted for access to the areas surrounding the ground zeros. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources the following question, on notice, on 27 September 1978: 
Was the Government advised by Westinghouse Corporation that it had received construction permits for the Bataan Nuclear Power Plant Project from the Philippines Atomic Energy Commission when only conditional work authorisations had been granted. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
What was the percentage change in the staff level for (a) the overall public service and (b) each department for each year since 1 July 1975. 
What is the percentage difference between the approved staff ceiling for 30 June 1979, and the 1 July 1978 staff level for (a) the overall public service and (b) each department 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
With reference to  Senator Carrick  's answer to  Senator Mulvihill  's question without notice in the Senate of 19 September 1978, regarding the establishment of a nuclear waste repository in the Pacific, in what respect is a regional repository for spent nuclear fuel a different concept from a nuclear waste repository. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission assessed the possible consequences of accidental releases of radioactive gases or materials into the atmosphere or water at the Lucas Heights research establishment, NSW. 
Which suburbs of Sydney and surrounding areas would be affected by such an accidental release. 
What is the estimated cost of lives lost, injury and property damage of the worst possible accident at Lucas Heights. 
Has the Commission or any other body prepared any reports on the possible consequences of accidents at the Lucas Heights research establishment. If so, will these reports be made public. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
What measures are taken by (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each State to monitor and collect data regarding the salt content of drinking water supplies in Australian cities and rural centres. 
What are the mean levels of (a) total dissolved solids and (b) sodium in the drinking water supplies of (i) Sydney, (ii) Melbourne, (iii) Brisbane, (iv) Adelaide, (v) Perth, (vi) Hobart, (vii) Darwin and (viii) Canberra. 
What standards for (a) total dissolved salts and (b) sodium in drinking water supplies are accepted by (i) the Commonwealth and (ii) each State. 
What criteria are used to determine the standards. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Is he able to say what is (a) the number or nuclear power plants and (b) the nuclear electricity generating capacity of plants (i) in operation, (ii) under construction, (iii) planned or on order and (iv) planned or on order and subsequently cancelled or deferred during the last5 years in (A) the Soviet Union, (B) Eastern Europe, (C) Cuba and (D) the People's Republic of China. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Is he able to say what is (a) the number of nuclear power plants and (b) the nuclear electricity generating capacity of plants (i) in operation, (ii) under construction, (iii) planned or on order and (iv) planned or on order and subsequently cancelled or deferred during the last 5 years in (A) Europe, (B) the United States of America and (C) other western countries. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Is he able to say what is (a) the number of nuclear power plants and (b) the nuclear electricity generating capacity in plants (i) in operation, (ii) under construction, (iii) planned or on order and (iv) planned or on order and subsequently cancelled or deferred during the last5 years in third world countries. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say which nuclear installations in Europe, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Japan are presently reprocessing spent oxide nuclear fuel derived from light water reactors on a commercial scale. 
Is he also able to say what volume of (a) fuel which was reprocessed and (b) reprocessed fuel was vitrified, at each of these plants during (i) 1977, (ii) 1976 and (iii) 1975. 
Is he able to say whether there are any proposals to vitrify spent oxide nuclear fuel derived from light water reactors on (a) a commercial or (b) a pilot scale without reprocessing in Europe, the United States of America, Japan or the United Kingdom. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say what is the mass of (a) spent oxide nuclear fuel derived from electricity producing light water reactors and (b) spent natural uranium metal fuel derived from electricity producing gas graphite reactors, which was or is expected to be (i) reprocessed and (ii) vitrified during (A) 1976, (B) 1977, (C) 1978 and (D) 1979 at the Nuclear Fuel Reprocessing plant at (AA) Marcoule, France and (BB) La Hague, France. 
What is the mass of (a) spent oxide nuclear fuel derived from electricity producing light water reactors and (b) spent natural uranium metal fuel derived from electricity producing gas graphite reactors which was or is expected to be produced in France during (i) 1976, (ii) 1977, (iii) 1978 and(iv) 1979. 
What measures have been taken or are proposed for the permanent disposal of any vitrified nuclear waste which has been produced in France. 
What is the average activity of radioactive decay of (a) spent oxide nuclear fuel derived from electricity producing light water reactors and (b) spent natural uranium metal fuel derived from electricity producing gas graphite reactors. 
How many natural uranium gas graphite nuclear power stations are under construction, planned or on order in Europe, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Japan. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
What are the health effects of (a) acute and (b) chronic exposure to ethylene glycol. 
What are the standards for occupational exposure to ethylene glycol in an aerosol form. 
Does the addition of boiling water to ethylene glycol compounds for the purposes of application in an aerosol form increase the risk of their inhalation; if so, what-are the recommended practices with regard to its application in this form. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Premier of Western Australia, reported in the  Canberra Times  of 30 August 1 978, that he would be prepared to ha ve nuclear waste dumped in Western Australia. 
If so, has the Commonwealth Government received any proposals from the Government of Western Australia for the establishment of a nuclear waste repository in Western Australia. 
Have any discussions taken place between the Commonwealth and Western Australian Governments concerning the possible establishment of a nuclear waste repository in Western Australia. 
What approval of the Commonwealth Government would be required for the establishment of a nuclear waste repository in a State. 
Is there any conflict between the reported statement of the Premier of Western Australia and Federal Government policy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Is Aero-Shell Compound 7 or a similar glycol/alcohol mixture used for aircraft defrosting at any RAAF bases; if so, at which bases is it used and when did its use commence in each case. 
Have any bases ceased using these compounds for this purpose; if so, when, and for what reasons was their use terminated. 
In what form and manner are these compounds applied. 
Have there been any changes in their application during the last 5 years; if so, what are the reasons for the changes. 
How many personnel have directly applied these compounds in the defrosting of aircraft. 
What protective measures are taken in the application of these compounds. 
Have there been any changes in these measures during the last 5 years; if so, when and for what reasons were they made. 
Which authority is responsible for regulating and monitoring health aspects of this activity. 
Have there been any incidents of ill health amongst personnel who may have been associated with use of these compounds; if so, what are the details of these incidents. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the studies of Calabrese and Tuthill at the University of Massachussetts, USA, which link elevated blood pressure in high school children with an elevated intake of sodium in drinking water. 
If so, what steps has he taken to investigate the implications of the results for the health of Australian communities which rely on drinking water supplies which contain high levels of dissolved salt. 
Have levels of sodium equivalent to those which were linked to the occurrence of high blood pressure in the studies referred to in part (1) been reported in Perth's drinking water. 
What difficulties result from the levels of salt in Perth 's drinking water for people with hypertension or cardiovascular disease who, on the basis of medical advice, adopt salt restrictive diets. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement today on the state of the nation. It dealt mostly with the economy. The economy is of vital importance to the people of this country. But today we are faced with an international crisis on a par with the Cuban crisis of 1962. The gravity of this crisis demands our attention now. I believe that the attitude of the Government to date has been appalling. The China- Vietnam conflict can threaten millions of lives not only in this region but also in other parts of the world. The Prime Minister has spoken of the volatility of the international situation. He has spoken of the need for Australia to exercise an influence in reducing global tensions, especially in. our region. No one in this House would disagree with that statement as far as it goes. But the statement made today by the Prime Minister of Australia at a very critical time of dangerous conflict between major countries in our region does not go far enough. 
The reality behind the rhetoric is that Australia has to date gone too far in this conflict. Australia's position has been too crude, too rash, too dangerous and too uncaring. The Fraser Government has not shown prudence in the course of the present conflict. The Menzies, Holt, Gorton and McMahon governments did not show prudence in the historical period that led up to the present conflict. Those governments did not understand the human suffering to which they contributed in the past. The Fraser Government does not understand the suffering of the people of China, the people of Vietnam and the people of Kampuchea today. It does not understand the potential human suffering of the people of our region and of the world if the present conflict escalates to a global nuclear war. 
It is important to examine the worsening state of the Australian economy under the Fraser Government. We should not be distracted from the increasing hardships being forced on to the low and middle income earners and the unemployed by the deliberate policies of this Government. But at this critical time we need to examine the deterioration of international relations in our region. We need to face up to the human suffering that is now occurring and is likely to occur. The major threat to peace underpins anything else that we might try to achieve. It is necessary for me to say now, before going into detail, that the Australian Government's recent statements and actions concerning the crisis in Indo-China have been mere echoes of the statements made by the United States Government. The nature of Australia's overtures to the present Chinese leadership have been motivated by opportunism in the search of lucrative markets for the big private corporations. 
It is necessary for me to say, because this Government does not reveal it, that the nature of Australia's economic relations with the countries in our region largely determines the shape of the Australian economy. The companies in Australia which can grow big enough at the expense of the smaller firms to specialise their production for export in tandem with the same big companies operating in other countries in our regional production Une are, in a way, responsible for our present economic crisis. Most of those companies are foreign controlled. Many are transnational companies. Many introduce labour displacing and labour degrading technology. Many pollute our environment. Many send a large bulk of their profits overseas. Many manipulate our tariff walls and engage in transfer pricing arrangements with their subsidiaries in other countries. Many play off workers in one country against workers in another country. We have to realise that it is not just Australia which trades with Singapore or the Philippines. It is IBM which trades with IBM, Unilever which trades with Unilever and General Motors which trades with General Motors while the worker in Singapore, the Philippines and Australia compete with each other. 
The problem of unemployment, the worsening balance of payments and the increasing polarisation in our society are caught in the nature of corporate industrial development in our region. As many of those corporations are owned in America, Britain, Japan and West Germany the future of Australia's economic development is largely determined overseas. Australia's changing economic structure then is not irrelevant to the Australian Government's support of the foreign and defence policies of the United States which itself represents the interests of big American corporations in the region. It is in this light that we need to examine the role that the Australian Government has played in relation to events in Indo-China. I am concerned that the complexity of the issues surrounding the recent conflicts in Vietnam and Kampuchea have not been properly addressed in this House. I am concerned that lines will be too crudely drawn without an adequate grasp of the history of the conflicts. I am concerned that the Prime Minister's statement about those conflicts in this House has been empty. 
We need to recall the enormous struggles of the Chinese people over many years against occupying foreign exploiting nations and their struggles over many years to feed their massive population, develop mass literacy and progress towards industrial and agricultural development. They have made great achievements. Of course we should give praise to the Chinese people. I have had a long friendship with the people of China. I visited China in 1960 and in 1976. 1 saw at first hand the tremendous gains the people had made in that country. But now I must say that I am disturbed at the recent developments under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping. We need to recall the enormous struggles of the Vietnamese people over many years first against 
France, then Japan, then France again and then of course later the United States and our own Australian troops. We need to be reminded of the massive destruction brought on that country's cultivated land, its factories, schools and bridges in a 30-year struggle that occurred there. 
Let me be more specific. In North Vietnam the six largest cities were bombed and there was terrible destruction in that country. In the south, apart from the enormous loss of human lives there were one and a half million war casualties, more than 800,000 children left as orphans, half a million invalids, 500,000 prostitutes- whom the United States forces helped to create- and 3 million people illiterate. The Vietnamese have suffered over the 30 years of wars. Even since 1975 the recent monsoons have inundated the main rice production areas of the Mekong Delta. The task of re-uniting the war based economy in the north with the shell of a neo-colony in the south is immense. 
South Vietnam was largely dependent on American economic aid. Most of this aid came in the form of consumer goods. As a result the standard of living of the upper and middle classes in the southern cities was far higher than that normally found in most underdeveloped countries, especially those at war. In 1975 all American aid ceased. Vietnam was left with a problem of supporting the southern population previously dependent on enormous economic aid from the United States and imported consumer goods. The ability of the Vietnam Government to absorb those problems is limited by the lack of assistance it received from other countries except of course the Soviet Union and some socialist countries. France, Sweden and Japan were the main contributors from the Western world. No other countries gave any substantial aid. Australia withdrew its reconstruction aid as some petty rebuke over Kampuchea. For all the huge sums spent by the United States in the war against the Vietnamese people- it was spending $35,000m a year on war- the United States has not met its commitments in peace. It has given no economic assistance to the reconstruction and reparation of that country in spite of  President  Nixon's commitment in his letter to Premier Pham Van Dong to make $6,000m reparation available. 
Vietnam has been driven into a position in which it has to rely more and more on the Soviet camp for its economic aid. As honourable members know Vietnam was driven to join the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance to maintain economic aid and at the same time to maintain its independence. It also joined the International Bank. Even though the Americans tried to stop any aid going to Vietnam, against the American protests, Vietnam was given $90m from the International Bank. This situation locks Vietnam into an international relationship it does not necessarily want and restricts its ability to remain independent. Current levels of assistance are insufficient to allow Vietnam properly to cope with its problems. 
I am not saying any of this to condone or support the role of Vietnam in the recent events in Kampuchea. I am clearly of the view that every nation has the right to determine its own affairs by its people internally and should not receive external pressures of military forces. I am saying this merely to point out how Vietnam's options have been gradually shut off. Australia's action in withdrawing aid closed off another door for the Vietnamese. Such an action effectively serves to aggravate the already explosive situation. 
I believe that Vietnam is striving to remain a genuinely independent nation. That is what it fought for over 30 years. We should not act with this level of stupidity to drive Vietnam away from that independent position. It could become the Yugoslavia of Asia if it were given enlightened support of the people of the Western world. But now I fear for the future of the Vietnamese people. Vietnam has been excluded from integration into the world's financial system and forced into Comecon. It had no option but to sign a friendship treaty with the Soviet Union. We have some evidence of the sharpening of the differences within the Vietnamese leadership as the links with the Soviet Union are bound tighter and tighter. If that happens it is because of our own acts of stupidity in the past. I am asking rational people in Australia's interests to see that Vietnam remains an independent country and that we do not drive it into any bloc. We should do our utmost in this direction. The antagonisms during 1978 deepened as the links of struggle were drawn across the rivalries of the Chinese and the Russians. In July Vietnam openly broke with Peking and accused the Chinese of stirring up trouble amongst the ethnic Chinese in Vietnam. Antagonism in Kampuchea, and in the Vietnam border dispute, again was blamed on the Chinese. Conflicts on the China-Vietnam border again were stirred up over many questions, over the indigenous Chinese people in Vietnam whom we call the Hua people. The conflicts in Indo-China are complex. They are dangerous. We can only hinder a resolution if we isolate the countries genuinely striving for independence. Our role is to support an independent Vietnam and an independent Kampuchea. We should put our principles, we should put the welfare of the people in our region ahead of the demands of corporate trade. 
I believe that we should take five major steps: Firstly, we should call for an immediate withdrawal of all Chinese forces from Vietnam and call on United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to avoid any action or statement that could provoke a further escalation or inhibit the resolution of the conflict. Secondly, we should call for the demilitarisation of the Vietnam-China border under international supervision. Thirdly, we should propose that the independence and sovereignty of Kampuchea should be guaranteed by international agreement and that the Kampuchean people be left to resolve their internal problems free of interference from China, Vietnam or any other outside forces. Fourthly, we should support the Vietnamese Government's proposals for the resolution of all Indo-China border disputes by internationally supervised negotiations. Fifthly, we should restore reconstruction aid to Vietnam on a more adequate scale and undertake similar aid programs to Kampuchea and Laos. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
Has his Department or senior departmental officers expressed the view that to leave the material buried at Maralinga which may contain potentially recoverable plutonium in its present state and location is not an acceptable option; if so, what are the reasons for this view. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that an examination by Australian and British officials of records relating to the burial of radioactive material at Maralinga revealed the existence of 6 relevant documents. 
If so, what is the title of each document. 
Which of these documents has been provided to (a) the South Australian Government and (b) the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council. 
What was the date on which each document was provided to these bodies. 
Which of the documents is classified by (a) the Australian Government and (b) the British Government. 
Will he provide reasons in each case for the classification of these documents. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that an examination by Australian and British officials of records relating to the burial of radioactive material at Maralinga revealed anomalies in the available information; if so, what were these anomalies. 
Is it a fact that only one burial pit was examined during the visit of British and Australian officials to Maralinga. 
Did the examination of the Maralinga site reveal any errors or omissions in the nature of burial sites or the contained materials; if so, what were these errors or omissions. 
-The Chinese invasion of Vietnam is now in its second tragic week. The signs are that a protracted war could escalate to immense international proportions. This House, and through it the Australian people, have inadequately and belatedly been informed by the Government of developments in this war. This House is still being subjected to empty rhetoric on this issue. This Government has no foreign policy of integrity. It has no foreign policy of substance. This House is being asked to condone this Government's endorsement of the United States of America foreign policy on the Indo-China region. This was the policy that caused the beginning of the present problem. It is a policy designed to serve the interests of the big private corporations in the region. It is a policy that historically has shown contempt for the people of China, contempt for the people of Vietnam, contempt for the people of Kampuchea and the people of Laos. It is now a hypocritical foreign policy. As the United States attempts to woo the present Chinese leadership for big markets for the big corporations, it is a most audacious act on the part of the United States to send its ambassador to China at a critical time when the Chinese have invaded the people in Vietnam. 
This issue is now being used by this Government in the House in an attempt to justify increased military hardware purchases. This hypocritical Government is cynically using this dangerous issue for corporate advantage with the rhetoric of peace and the machinery of war. This Government should admit that it was wrong to intervene with the United States in a war in Vietnam during the 1960s. It was wrong to oppose the independence of Vietnam then and it was wrong to withdraw the reconstruction aid that was being provided to Vietnam, even though that aid was a miserable pittance compared with what it should have been. It was wrong to try to isolate the Vietnamese people in the present struggle. It is wrong to support a new collusion between the United States of America and the Government of China in an attempt to muzzle an independent Vietnam. It is wrong to spend more money on the machinery of war if peace and security in the region is what we seek to achieve. 
Last week, five days after the Chinese invasion of Vietnam, at a time of a serious threat of a global nuclear war, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a superficial statement on general instability in the region. It was an empty statement. It failed to show an understanding of the nature of the conflict. It failed to show concern for the people in the region. Today, 10 days after the Chinese invasion of Vietnam, when the possibility of international escalation of the war is heightening, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has made another empty statement.  His  statement lacks substance. Nowhere has it detailed the nature and scale of the current conflicts. Nowhere has it identified the implications of these conflicts. Nowhere has it shown concern for the people of the region. 
Instead it reveals a primary concern for the resources of the region. Instead it suggests a mischievous interpretation of the conflicts, an interpretation that ignores history, an interpretation that denies the struggle of the Vietnamese and Kampuchean people to maintain independence, an interpretation that excuses the America atrocities and consequent responsibilities in the region, an interpretation that alleges the innocence of the United States and the innocence of Australia, an interpretation that reduces the conflict to a rivalry between the communists super powers. Let us remember who invaded Vietnam with bombs, guns and troops in the 1960s and let us remember the legacy that the American invaders left there. Let us remember the 30 years during which the Vietnamese have fought off foreign invaders, whether French, Japanese, American or Australian. Let us remember that the Chinese people fought in a similar struggle to seek their independence. So did the Kampuchean people and so did the people of Laos. 
If the Minister for Foreign Affairs now says that he understands the conflict in terms of Vietnam and Kampuchea acting as clients of other nations, he has not understood what that 30 years of war for Vietnamese independence was all about. That is the enormously sad truth about the statement the Minister made today. He alleges that no one else contributed to the problems but the warring states themselves. He claims wrongly that no one sought to isolate Vietnam or to make it difficult for her to enter fully into the life of the region. I ask the House and the Minister the following questions: Why did the United States refuse to make reparation for the devastation it created? Why did the United States refuse reconstruction aid? Why did the United States oppose Vietnam's entry to the United Nations? Why did the United States oppose Vietnam's access to the reconstruction loans of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund? Why did the United States refuse to allow American companies to trade with Vietnam after the end of hostilities? Why was it that Vietnam received only a minute amount of aid from the Western nations? The only real aid came from Sweden. Other aid of a lesser extent came from Japan and France. Why did Australia withdraw the pittance of aid it had made available at this time of the critical struggle by the Vietnamese people for independence? I might say that that aid was made available first by a Labor government and only continued by the present Government. 
We have to keep in mind that this aid was given after a struggle of 30 years of war and that even after the peace of 1975 the Vietnamese people had two bad seasons when the crops failed due to drought conditions. Then, in 1978, they had in nine provinces the worst flooding that country had had for many decades. Why did Australia work with the United States to force Vietnam into COMECON-the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance- and into a close dependence on the Soviet Union against Vietnam's wishes against its independence and against its integration into the region? 
In May 1977, Pham Van Dong went through Europe in search of aid and, with the exception of France, all the nations refused to give aid until such time as there was a normalisation of relationships with the United States. In April 1977, Hanoi made it clear that it wanted Western capital and technology to assist in the massive reconstruction task. In its search, Vietnam was struggling to avoid being locked into economic dependence on the Soviet Union. Vietnam was attempting to free itself from the powerless, triangular balancing between China and the Soviet Union. How can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say in this House that the countries in the region were 'positive and forthcoming in their dealings with Vietnam'? The countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations gave no aid. Along with the Prime Minister of Australia and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  they attacked the Vietnamese Government for what they called 'profiteering' from refugees. Those crude outbursts showed that the Prime Minister and the Minister did not understand the internal pressures on Vietnam in the process of reconstruction, reunification and reconciliation of that country. 
In the north, the problems were different. There were external provocations by the Chinese to exploit the internal difficulties and to encourage the ethnic Chinese to leave. There were rumourmongers. There was the psychology of fear, which infiltrators had spread among the Hua people, that there would be an invasion of Vietnam by China and that if the Hua people remained in Vietnam they would be treated as traitors. At that time 160,000 Hua people, who are Vietnamese people of Chinese descent, migrated north to China. Those people were the key people in the key jobs in the north and that was the basis of the disruption of the economy of the north. Those refugee movements imposed strains on the northern borders, aggravated by further internal divisions among the mountain people. 
It is necessary to understand the history of the struggle between Vietnam and Kampuchea. During the war, the peoples of the two countries fought alongside one another. After the war in 1975 struggles broke out along the Kampuchean and Thai borders. Negotiations proceeded between the Vietnamese and Kampuchean people. The periods of hostility on the Vietnamese and Kampuchean borders parallel the rise and fall of Pol Pot in Kampuchea and Deng Xiaoping in China. I was told during my visit to Vietnam in July 1978 that the Chinese were encouraging a heightening of the conflict with Vietnam. At that time I had strong reservations about that view. In fact in my own mind I rejected it. Today I am more receptive to that argument. 
Of course, that is not to condone Vietnam's way of responding to its difficulties with the Kampucheans. It is not to excuse any Vietnamese incursions into Kampuchean territory or any continued presence of Vietnamese troops in Kampuchea. The Vietnamese should get out of Kampuchea and the Chinese should get out of Vietnam. The people of Kampuchea and the people of Vietnam should be able to make their decisions themselves without external pressures. But it is of no use to confuse Vietnamese involvement in Kampuchea with the Chinese involvement in Vietnam. They are events of a different order with very different international implications. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has sadistically boasted that he predicted the present conflict. But why did Australia not even try to overcome the Vietnamese border problems at that time? Australia had diplomats in Hanoi. Those Australian representatives had seen what was happening, particularly on the border with Kampuchea. They had visited Kampuchean refugee camps and spoken with those refugees. I know this because I have discussed the matter with the Ambassador and other representatives in Vietnam. They knew the problems. They had seen the refugee movements. They saw the tensions increase. They were aware of the border conflicts. They had heard the charges. They should have foreseen these present problems. They knew how hard the Vietnamese were working for a true independence. The Australian Government was informed of what was occurring at that time but no action was then taken by this Government. The Minister's speech shows no understanding of the complex problems which were occurring at that time in Vietnam, in Kampuchea and in the region generally. 
At that time when the seeds of the present war were being sown the Australian Government did nothing. Yet now, when it is too late, it condemns what has been occurring. The Minister for Foreign Affairs almost excuses the Chinese invasion of Vietnam as part of its containment strategy against the Soviet Union. He also dismisses the incursion by Vietnam into Kampuchea as the act of a client of the Soviet Union against Kampuchea as a client of China. This is a simplistic, dangerous and false interpretation. It leads to a position where Australia can now justify its withdrawal of aid from Vietnam because it is defined as a Soviet puppet. It can forget Kampuchea because it is, or rather was, a puppet of China. If honourable members want to argue about that, I might say that some people can argue that Australia is a puppet of the United States. At least the Vietnamese do not make Cam Ranh Bay available to the Soviet Union. We make our soil available to the United States for foreign military bases. The implications of that decision are to isolate totally the people of Vietnam and, therefore, condemn them to the fate of super power rivalry. 
Australia's responsible role in the region at this time would be to support the independence of Vietnam, Kampuchea and Laos. A responsible Australian response at this stage would be to provide aid to the Vietnamese people just as the French have made their aid available. I believe that a greater magnitude of aid should be made available by the Australian Government because of our past involvement, because of the past conflict and because of the hundreds of millions of dollars which we have spent on that country. Therefore, I am seeking that aid to Vietnam be expanded. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Dobie)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Does he affirm his statement of 25 August 1977, that the Government will always be in a position to move immediately to terminate uranium development, permanently, indefinitely or for a special period as recommended by the Ranger Inquiry; if so, will he outline the mechanism whereby the Government could immediately terminate uranium development for an indefinite period. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report of the International Atomic Energy Agency entitled 'Special Safeguards Implementation Report'. 
If so, has this report been made public by the IAEA or any member government: if not, is he able to give the reason. 
Will lie make the report public: if not, why not. 
Is it a fact that the report indicates that a country's agreement to subject its nuclear activities to IAEA safeguards does not necessarily assure that adequate material control and accounting measures are applied in all cases: if so, what measures has the IAEA taken to rectify these deficiencies in IAEA safeguards. 
Is it a fact that the report highlighted deficiencies in a number of countries, which were not identified, in the implementation of IAEA safeguards. 
Has Australia concluded a bilateral safeguards agreement or commenced negotiating such an agreement with any of these countries. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is he aware that in seasonally adjusted terms the number of new housing commencements has fallen in the September quarter 1978 by seven per cent below the June quarter number and by 12.2 per cent below the September quarter number in 1 977? Is he also aware that money supply is currently running at 1 1 per cent, which is well above the Government's Budget target of six per cent to eight per cent? Will a tightening of liquidity show a real impact on the housing sector? Will it further aggravate the decline in the building industry? Will such a further decline have repercussions across the rest of the economy? 
-Australia's manufacturing industry is in a crisis. Since 1974 more than 200,000 jobs have been lost in the manufacturing sector. Many of those jobs have been lost as a result of reduced production in Australia as a consequence of increased imports of finished goods and component parts. Many jobs have been lost as a result of increased merger activities within industries which have led to an increasing concentration of production in the hands of a relatively few very large and mostly foreigncontrolled corporations. Many jobs have been lost as a result of the kind of technology used by these firms in their production plants that are moving towards a greater degree of specialisation. Many jobs have been lost because these international firms have diversified their investments out of manufacturing into the mining and tertiary sectors. Many jobs have been lost because these international firms- and in some cases even Australian-owned firms such as the Repco company- have moved part of or all their production overseas to countries such as the Philippines where workers receive an average of $2 a day, where governments offer large incentives such as the Bataang free trade zone, where imported components are tariff free, where the state pays the cost of infrastructure and where trade union organisations are effectively prohibited. Many of the manufacturing jobs lost in Australia have been in labour intensive industries, such as the clothing, textiles, footwear and furniture industries where around 75,000 jobs have been lost since 1974. A further 47,000 jobs have been lost in the industrial machinery and equipment and household appliance industries. In the highly capital intensive manufacturing industries, such as the chemical production industries, around 10,000 jobs have been lost and in the motor vehicle and parts industries about 25,000 jobs have been lost. 
This loss of jobs in manufacturing industries is the core of Australia's worsening unemployment crisis. It is a crisis caused largely by investment decisions of large corporations here in Australia but especially overseas. It is a crisis that has now been used by these corporations to strengthen their international control of production, to weaken the control of organised labour and to increase the corporations' profitability on a global scale regardless of the devastating impact on the various nations and their work forces. We see no clearer example of the emerging global control of production by a few firms and a new international division of labour than in the vehicle industry. We see no clearer example of the ability of transnational corporations to play off governments and workers in one country against those in another country and we see no clearer example of government collusion with the interests of these transnational corporations to implement their devastating global plans than the Fraser Government's hasty subservience to the demands of the General Motors Corporation for the public subsidy of its production of a world car. We see no clearer example of corporate blackmail of a national government. We see no clearer example of a government willing to sell out the workers of this country, to sell out Australian component parts manufacturers and to sell out the national interests to the advantage of the General Motors Corporation. 
The General Motors Corporation is one of the largest transnational corporations in the world. Its sales volume in 1977 was more than half Australia's total gross domestic product. Its potential power to destabilise the national economy of countries such as Australia, Chile or Thailand is considerable. That destabilisation potential is apparent in the ability of General Motors internationally to make transfer pricing arrangements across its subsidies in 33 countries, to take high profits in tax havens and to declare low profits or even losses in countries where company taxes are slightly higher. That destabilisation power is apparent in the huge deficit in the current account of the balance of payments which in Australia in 1977-78 was in the red by $2,500m, of which $1,1 lim was made up of profits sent overseas by foreign parent companies. 
The international complementation plan put forward by the General Motors Corporation in Australia has been hastily agreed to by the Fraser Government without adequate information to assess its short-term and long-term impact on the vehicle and related industries and the Australian economy generally, without appropriate consultation with the trade unions and the businessmen in industry and without the extraction of any guarantees from that company for the future. It represents the driving of a wedge between sections of the whole manufacturing sector in Australia. It signals a further loss of jobs in manufacturing. It signals reduced national power to control production. It signals a deterioration of the ability of workers to participate in their industries as the decision power gets transferred to Detroit. It signals a further decline in the importance of research, design and development activities in Australia and a greater dependence on imported technological know-how. The General Motors Corporation's complementation plan is an attempt to exploit the current unemployment crisis in this country. It is an attempt to capitalise on the vulnerability of the depressed vehicle industry. Employment in the motor vehicle and parts industries has dropped from a peak of 103,000 in 1974 to 80,000 in 1978. This downturn has been particularly noticeable in South Australia where there has been a 25 per cent loss of jobs in the manufacturing industries over the 1971-78 period. 
We have recently seen ICI Australia Ltd play off one State against another in its deals to get the highest possible subsidies from a State government. Now we see the General Motors Corporation playing off nation against nation- in this case West Germany against Australia- for the best bargains. What will be the social and economic costs of this deal? It is to our amazement and to the Government's shame that that question cannot be answered. To clinch a deal with the General Motors Corporation without such knowledge is a most irresponsible act on the part of this Government. To have failed to consider alternatives to General Motors' plan for motor vehicle production in Australia is a sign of the incompetence of this Government. 
The size of the passenger vehicle market in Australia has been recently estimated at about 560,000 units. That size allows the industry to be restructured along more efficient lines. That volume allows Australia to maintain full motor vehicle component manufacturing. That volume allows the Government to plan a more rational organisation of the industry involving the merger into large consortia of relatively small-scale manufacturers currently experiencing difficulties. The rationalisation of the industry along these lines would imply keeping control of total vehicle production in Australia. With the spin-off of supporting employment in the related industries, such rationalisation would mean that in the future Australian industry would be in a position to design and build alternative vehicle products in view of changing energy and environmental requirements. If control of production is lost, Australia becomes increasingly dependent on decisions made elsewhere, decisions made only on the basis of what is profitable and not based on social and environmental needs. 
The history of General Motors in Australia is the story of the great rip-off. Not one United States dollar was invested in the Holden project but millions of dollars were sent back as profits to the United States. The Australian Government over the years has treated General Motors very favourably- reducing its company tax requirements, providing it with huge subsidies on plant and equipment and servicing it with infrastructure. We are now seeing that organisation being given further generous treatment and this time at the obvious expense of workers in the vehicle industry and the Australian people generally. 
Let us look at the impact of the General Motors complementation deal. The wholesale percentage cost of a car is made up as follows: Imported components, 15 percent; declared car company profits, 15 percent; in plant labour, 20 per cent; in house production, 15 per cent; machinery costs, tooling and imported materials, 1 5 per cent; and local content, including New Zealand manufacture, 20 per cent. If the socalled 85 per cent of non-imported content is reduced by five per cent, that means a five per cent cut in the 20 per cent local content component. The five per cent reduction is in fact a 25 per cent cut in the business of local parts manufacturers. On that basis, we are faced with the prospect of a loss of around 20,000 jobs in the vehicle industry over the next three years. The Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights 
Union has estimated that over a 10-year period there will be around 40,000 jobs lost in the manufacturing industry. It is clear that what is a gain to General Motors is a loss to the Australian workers. It is clear that General Motors does not care about the consequences for Australia and it is clear that the Fraser Government does not care for the people of Australia but only for the profits of big corporations which this Government really represents. 
I want to make a final point in this debate. The way this Government has made its decision without information, without consultation and without planning signifies a shift away from planning of industrial development to laissez-faire ad hockery. That approach spells disaster for Australia. It invites more blackmail and more back door dealing. It means the national Government has yielded to the transnational corporations its powers for determining Australia's future. 
I note that I have only a limited amount of time in which to complete my remarks. On behalf of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a report of a special meeting of the Automotive Industry Advisory Council which that honourable member attended on behalf of my party. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY ADVISORY COUNCIL 
Special meeting: held in Canberra 19 February- day before Parliament resumed (although the list of those attending gives the meeting date as 12 February- presumably it was deferred). The meeting was chaired by the Minister for Industry and Commerce and attended by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, two Liberal backbenchers (Messrs Edwards and Dean), myself- representing the Opposition and the Shadow Minister for Manufacturing Industry (Chris Hurford), the Secretary of the Department of Industry and Commerce and two of his officers,  Mr Laurie  Carmichael of the AMWSU,  Mr Len  Townsend, Federal Secretary of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia,  Mr Ron  Luckman, Assistant Secretary of the ETU, representatives of manufacturers, components makers, the Federation of Automotive Products Manufactures. 
The minister began by stressing that the discussion was to be regarded as confidential- and this raises the dilemma which any participant in such meetings is faced with. If there is a discrepancy between what you are told in confidence at such a meeting and what is subsequently announced by those who impose the rule of confidentiality, does one have a moral obligation to stand up and point out the discrepancy or is one obliged to be a consenting adult and go along, in silence, with what one believes to be misleading. 
Lynch stressed that the big question facing the Australian car industry was not the GMH complementation plan but the future of the industry after 1984- and the problems which arose from Australia being a very small market ( 1 per cent of the world) in a time of changing technology- and that despite 57 per cent protection and a guaranteed 80/20 share of the domestic market Australia's motor industry was still unhealthy. He also said that we would not be considerV.g the GMH plan in any detail- only the broad, general principle of complementation and that he hoped the meeting would be over by lunchtime. (We began just after 10.00 a.m.). He also said that no decisions had been made on the GMH plan and that there had been no Cabinet discussion. 
Lynch: 'I do not want the meeting to be devoted to a definitive analysis of the GM plan'. 
The GM representative stressed his company's belief that complementation would generate jobs and help ensure the survival of the industry but that it would be 'wrong to get down to the detailed issues yet'. 
-I thank the House. I think that the debate on this industry is most important. The implications are so far reaching that it is disturbing that so little information has been given to members of this House. The honourable member for Lalor attended the special meeting of the Automotive Industry Advisory Council and reported to our caucus that information which was sought from General Motors could not be given to him or trade union representatives. As I have said, it is disturbing that so little information has been given. The proposal is a political deal. It is a sell out of the Australian workers in the interests of the corporate sector which is the real enemy of the Australian people as a whole and which in the long term we have to defeat. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Hurford's  amendment) stand part of the question. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
What sum has been made available by the Commonwealth to each State under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement in each financial year since 1970-7 1 . 
What sum was made available to (a) the State Housing Commission and (b) the Home Builders Account in each case. 
How many dwellings were constructed with these Commonwealth funds in each case. 
How many loans were made through the Builders Account and what was the average value of loans in each case. 
What percentage of funds channelled through the Home Builders Account went to the construction of new dwellings. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
What proportion of dwellings constructed in each State under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement was: 
a ) fitted with a solar water heating system and 
insulated, during each of the last five years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
1 ) When and in which newspapers were advertisements placed seeking public comment on the Western Mining Corporation 's Yeelirrie environmental impact statement 
Where, at what cost and on which date were copies of the statement available to members of the public. 
3 ) What was the closing date for submissions. 
How many submissions were received (a) by the closing date and (b) after the closing date. 
-I preface my question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs by quoting from an article in the Johannesburg  Star  of 13 January 1979: 
The Australian Government is considering a plan to accept up to 10,000 Rhodesian refugees if the transitional government collapses. 
The article goes on to state: 
Australian immigration officials confirmed this week that it has doubled to four its immigration staff in Pretoria to handle the growing number of applications by white Rhodesians to come to Australia. 
Will the Minister inform the House as to the accuracy of that report and will he describe the nature of the plan referred to? Given that the liberation movement in Zimbabwe has stated repeatedly that whites will be welcome to stay in that country and that they have important functions to perform in an independent Zimbabwe if they genuinely accept the principle of majority rule, I ask: On what grounds would the whites considered under the contingency plan be classified as refugees? Is the Minister prepared to accept white Rhodesians who are not willing to accept majority rule? If so, what would be the implications for race relations in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Which aspects of the mining, milling and transport of uranium does the Government propose to regulate through mandatory codes of practice. 
What are the specific codes of practice which the Government proposes to institute. 
When does the Minister expect to have formulated each proposed code of practice. 
Will proposed codes of practice be made available for public comment; if so, what will be the period of time, after proposed codes are available to the public, in which submissions will be accepted. 
5 ) Will the proposed codes of practice and any comments from interested persons be subject to independent assessment; if so, will the results of any assessment be made public. 
Does the Government propose to approve by order, under the  Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Act  1978, the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores as it is presently constituted; if not, in what aspects will it be amended. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the former head of the South African Department of Information,  Dr Rhoodie,  has made wide allegations of bribery of government members and officials in some Western nations and of the use of members and officials for propaganda purposes? Can the Prime Minister give a guarantee that no Australian Government member or official has received funds from the South African Embassy or any South African Government front organisations? If the Prime Minister cannot give such a guarantee, what action is he prepared to take to enable him to do so? 

 -Mr Speaker, your comments are disturbing in this regard: The amendments before the House which have been circulated to date are in some way restrictive or anti-abortion. It seems to me from the remarks you have made that because this debate is restricted no honourable member who wants to support a woman's right to decide whether she will have an abortion will have an opportunity of entering this debate.  Mr Speaker,  I am disturbed by the rulings and the guidance you have given. 
-I hope,  Mr Speaker  - 
-I hope that you will adopt a better course of action. 
-I said what I did,  Mr Speaker,  because you indicated that those honourable members who have indicated that they wish to move an amendment will catch your eye and probably will get the call before other honourable members who wish to speak. If that procedure is to be followed I think that very few other honourable members will get the opportunity to speak in this debate because it is a restricted debate. 
I oppose the Lusher motion. This motion, if it is passed, means a restriction on the availability of medical services to women. It means a restriction on the availability of abortion services to women on low incomes. The motion has been proposed because the Medibank rebate for the termination of pregnancy offends the moral and religious convictions of a minority group in the Australian community. Those people are entitled to their convictions, but they are asking the Government of a secular state to legislate in such a way as to universalise their convictions.. The Royal Commission on Human Relationships reported that there was no consensus on abortion in Australia. The Commission reviewed several opinion surveys, which showed that a majority of people supported the legal right to abortion in some circumstances. A survey of 1,000 women who had obtained abortions at the Preterm Foundation Clinic in Sydney in 1975 showed that 55 per cent of women nominated their religion as Protestant and 3 1 per cent as Catholic; that is, among Christians, attitudes to abortion are not clear-cut. Of course, Australia's population also contains Christian religious followers and non-religious people. On what grounds then, can the state move to universalise the beliefs of one group? Let us also be clear that some of the people behind this well-orchestrated anti-abortion campaign, both in Australia and overseas, are prepared to go to any lengths- to violent lengths- to get their own way. This House should be aware of the fires that have occurred at  Dr Bertram  Wainer 's clinic in Melbourne and of the intimidation of some doctors, nurses and patients at women's health clinics. Overseas there have been cases of petrol bombs exploding in the faces of women answering the door at abortion clinics. I am not claiming that a movement should be tarred by the brush of its fanatical fringe, but we should not overlook the fact that some groups use a religious front for other motives. 
This motion does not seek to change the law in relation to abortion. It attempts to restrict the medical benefits available to women who have abortions. As such, it is a medical issue. The withdrawal of the Medibank rebate would reduce access to abortion, especially low risk abortion, particularly for women on low incomes. As such, it is a class issue. The motion is in violation of the principle of the universal health care system to which the Australian Labor Party is committed by policy. The present Government has already eroded Medibank. This motion seeks to erode it further in a discriminatory way. The Royal Commission on Human Relationships concluded: 
. That restrictive laws have not in fact prevented the performance of abortions. What they do is to impede the scrutiny of abortion services by driving them underground. 
This motion, if passed, will not lead, to a reduction in abortion. The removal of Medibank benefits for women seeking abortions will mean that more and more women from lower income groups, or those who are just plain afraid to get money from their husbands or families, will be compelled to take greater risks with cheaper and more dangerous abortions. There is evidence to support the view that back-door abortions are unsafe and that they cause a higher death rate among women having abortions. The Commission concluded that the death rate was even higher in public hospitals than in private clinics as a result of: 
The use of older, less safe methods, the lack of experienced medical practitioners and counsellors, the uncertainty of medical attitudes, delays and requirements for hospitalisation . . . 
The effects of this motion, if passed, will be to place a greater and immediate burden on public hospitals which are ill-prepared to cope, and will increase the number of back-yard, high risk abortions. 
The situation is that almost 60 per cent of women seeking abortions do so for financial reasons. The available evidence suggests that in times of economic stress the abortion rate increases. By removing the medical benefits for abortion, women on low incomes will suffer most. There are already enough restrictions on these women. They do not have the resources and are denied the information necessary to use the complex health system. They have to put up with pressure and abuse from family, friends, even hospital staff and others. The Royal Commission on Human Relationships stated: 
. underprivileged women are much more exposed to traumatic experiences and to dangerous delays when seeking an abortion than middle-class women who have both the sophistication and the finance to be selective. 
Women seeking abortions fall into two main groups. The first group comprises young, single women, frequently without a stable partner. The second group comprises married women with families which cannot be enlarged. For the first group the task of raising a child is onerous and lonely. The risk of a forced marriage and the fear of an unwanted child is a tragic burden. For the second group, the disruption to personal and financial relations in the family is a major concern. 
At the pre-term clime, 1 1 per cent of women having abortions were students. Sixty per cent of the women had attended four or fewer years of high school. Fifty seven per cent were women employed as unskilled factory workers, operative, women with trade skills and clerical workers. Sixty two per cent were below the age of 25 years. These are the women who will be placed most at risk if this motion is passed. These are the women who are disadvantaged by lack of information about contraception and lack of child care. These are the women who are most heavily oppressed by sexism, by fear and by guilt that this society loads on them. This motion, and the people behind it, do nothing to reduce these disadvantages. In fact, these are often the people most vocal in opposition to sex education in schools and extended child care. 
Women pay equally with men for medical benefit coverage. Yet a surgical procedure that affects women only, which is prescribed by doctors, and charged for, is to be deleted. There have been no moral or religious criteria applied to the fees charged by doctors nor to the inclusion of various items in the Medibank scheme. The schedule merely reflects medical practice. The fact that abortion is available to women does not force women to have abortions. The only act of force is found in this motion. The restricted availability of abortions forces women to be unable to exercise the choice of avoiding a situation where an unwanted child is brought into being. It forces women into a specific position of oppression in this society in that they are denied their rights to control their own bodies. No women enjoy having an abortion. The Medibank rebate for abortion does not encourage women to have abortions. The person who suffers in the abortion is the woman and only the woman. Few women take the decision to have an abortion lightly. Theirs is a responsible choice, weighed up in the light of circumstances. Their right to make that choice has to be respected. The security to allow them to exercise that choice must be provided. As a comment on the chauvinism of this House there is not a man here who will suffer from the passage of this motion. But outside this House, countless women will suffer, especially working class women and women on low incomes. 
Women have a variety of responsible reasons for wanting an abortion such as the inability to manage financially; inability to cope emotionally; completion of a family or a recent child; no wish to be forced into a marriage; avoidance of family strife or parental awareness; ill health; worry about the deformity of a child; and rape or incest. In 40 per cent of cases the reason for becoming pregnant was the failure of contraceptive measures. That in itself reflects a broader set of problems facing women. Women are doubly disadvantaged. They suffer oppression on the basis of sex and exploitation on the basis of class. It is true that in many areas women are excluded. Too often decisions concerning women are made by men and too often these decisions reflect a lack of understanding of the real situation of women. For the most part women are treated unfairly in a domestic role where they are not only responsible for bearing a child but also for rearing the child and caring for the home. 
In the area of sexuality, the woman is burdened with almost the entire responsibility for birth control. Existing contraceptive methods are not reliable or are dangerous to the woman's health. Clearly many women from a variety of backgrounds and for a variety of reasons obtain abortions. There will continue to be many women who believe that they must have the right to have an abortion. It should be their right and only their right. It is our responsibility, as elected representatives, to ensure that those women can have safe abortions. It is our responsibility to ensure financial and psychological security for those women. It is our responsibility to ensure that they are spared the risks and humiliation of back-yard barbarism. It is our responsibility to provide safe and supportive medical services for all women who seek abortions, regardless of their capacity to pay. 
What gives this House of men the right to take away from women, and to take away from families under economic pressure, a civilised provision to which they have every right? That is, the right to have an abortion if they so desire. Surely we have passed the stage where men hypocritically think that women should pay a penalty for their promiscuity. Surely we have reached the stage where we see non-coercive sexual intercourse as not only an act of reproduction but also as a normal act of basic human relationship and human affection. If we are not hypocritical and if we are not narrow-minded, surely we can see this motion only as an attack on women in general and an attack on women with low incomes in particular. We can only reject this offensive and this medically and socially irresponsible motion. I ask the House to defeat the motion. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 November 1 978: 
How many dwellings are unsewered in (a) each State capital city and (b) the population centres containing more than 20,000 persons of each State and Territory. 
How many dwellings were sewered in each State capital city during each of the last 5 years. 
What is the estimated cost of eliminating the backlog in the supply of sewerage services in (a) State capital cities and (b) all population centres containing more than 20,000 persons. 
How many years will it take to eliminate this backlog. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Can he say: 
which areas of (i) Sydney and (ii) Melbourne remain unsewered and 
what is the population of these areas. 
If so, what is the cost of providing sewerage services to presently unsewered areas of: 
Sydney and 
Melbourne. 
When is it expected that the backlog in provision of sewerage services in: 
Sydney and 
Melbourne will be eliminated. 
Which Sydney beaches are polluted by sewerage outfall. 
What is the level of pollution at each of these beaches and how has it changed over the last 10 years. 
What is the level of pollution resulting from sewerage effluent in: 
a ) the Yarra River and 
Port Phillip Bay and how have these levels changed over the last 1 0 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, on notice, on 28 February 1 979: 
1 ) What are the maximum permissible levels of lead in petrol sold in each State and Territory in Australia. 
In each case, what changes in these levels have occurred in the last 10 years or are scheduled for future introduction. 
Is the Minister able to provide similar details in respect of (a) the United States of America, (b) Japan, (c) West Germany, (d) the United Kingdom, (e) France, (f) Sweden and (g) Canada. 
I want to answer only one aspect of the speech of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  because the minutes are very precious. He raised again the so-called red bogy. The situation is that most of the uranium used by Western Europe is enriched in the Soviet Union, so I am sick to death of all the talk about a red bogy. The uranium used by countries which honourable members opposite regard as allies and with which they want us to trade could be enriched in the Soviet Union. 
The Harrisburg incident has demonstrated to the world the dangers of at least one aspect of the development of nuclear energy. It has demonstated the confusion, the incompetence and the ignorance of nuclear scientists. It has demonstrated that the nuclear reactors are not safe and that we cannot put our trust in nuclear scientists and nuclear technology. The Harrisburg accident occurred in the very area- the possibility of a loss of a coolant- that had been the central focus of reactor safety technology. Loss of coolant and the  subsquent  core melt-down is the major accident nuclear power plants should be specifically designed to prevent. The decomposition of the cooling water in contact with the damaged nuclear fuel rods that produced a hydrogen bubble was an event for which there was no contingency plan. In fact, the bubble confused the scientists. This hydrogen bubble has created for the people of Pennsylvania the most serious possible reactor disaster- breach of containment around the reactor and the release of radioactive elements. 
What other things could happen for which there are no contingency plans? What other accidents have to happen before scientists wake up that they do not have all the solutions? If one of the central technologies of reactor safety has failed, what other technologies are unsafe? What other parts of reactors are unsafe? What other processes in the total nuclear fuel cycle are unsafe? The ordinary people can see now that the nuclear scientists cannot be trusted. Ordinary people can now see that the nuclear energy industry is dangerous- the most dangerous enterprise taken on in human history. 
The Harrisburg incident demonstrates the truth of the former General Electrics engineer,  Dr Dale  Bridenbaugh, who visited Australia in 1976. I spent many days with that gentleman. This is what he said: 
Nuclear power has become a technological monster and it is not clear who, if anyone, is in control. I am no longer convinced of the technical safety of nuclear power, and I fear the high risk of political and human factors that will ultimately lead to the misuse of its by-products. 
Bridenbaugh said that the control systems in nuclear reactors are 'susceptible to malfunctions', and that 'hundreds of near accidents' occurred in operating rooms every month and it was only a matter of time before a disaster occurred. This was said by Bridenbaugh, who spent 23 years with General Electrics. In fact while he was with General Electrics he warned that company of the dangers. The facts are that the Harrisburg accident is not the only accident that has occurred at a nuclear power plant. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a list of major accidents that have occurred in the nuclear power industry over the last 1 4 to 1 5 years. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I stress that the accidents listed are only the major accidents. Those accidents cause concern, but we have to see them in the context of the dangers built into the total nuclear fuel cycle. The greatest danger is at the end of the cycle. According to the Fox report, nuclear weapons and the generation of electricity by nuclear power stations cannot be separated. They are interconnected in their relationship to uranium rnining through the whole nuclear fuel cycle. The third recommendation of the first Fox report at page 185 states: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
Many other dangers are associated with the mining of uranium, with the transport of radioactive substances and the disposal of waste materials. There are no effective solutions, no safe solutions, to the problems in these areas. There is no guarantee that uranium will not be used by some extremist elements, whether they be governments or individuals. That has to be said. The United States of America alone has 75 million gallons of toxic waste which it does not know how to store. The richest nation in the world has 75 million gallons of toxic waste from nuclear testing. There is no control over the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We know that India has obtained the bomb by stealth. We know that South Africa has obtained the bomb by stealth, and we know that Israel has obtained the bomb by stealth. This is a warning to the Government and the Parliament. In the past the decisons have been made by governments and senior officials. The people have not been consulted, but now the people are involving themselves in the struggle against the nuclear industry. The warning has already been heeded in some parts of the world. In California in the United States a nuclear power station now may not be built. After the Harrisburg incident we may be sure that State after State in the United States will refuse permission for the construction of nuclear power stations. In Austria the people decided not to use a nuclear power station on which $500m had been spent. I refer also to recent events in Switzerland which were given only little publicity in the Press. Switzerland relies on oil mainly from Iran. What happened during the recent crisis in Iran? Even at the time of that enormous crisis, the people of Switzerland agreed by a narrow majority of 40,000 votes in a referendum to continue with a nuclear power program. We know that decision will soon be reversed. We know that because we are aware of the commitment of the people's struggle against nuclear power generation. 
We know that in France, in Germany, in Spain and in many other countries across the world people are standing up and protesting against the nuclear industry. Why? They are becoming concerned about the unresolved problems- the inter-relationship with the spread of nuclear weapons, the threat to future generations from nuclear waste. The Australian Labor Party in stating its policy has said: 'There are too many unresolved problems. Until those problems are solved there will be no uranium mining'. We have said quite clearly to the mining companies and the financial institutions: 'If you enter into contracts to mine and export uranium, when the Labor Party comes to power in 1 980 it will repudiate those contracts'. That is our position and that is where we stand. 
I believe that a broad based movement against nuclear energy is growing. Enormous concern is being expressed, particularly amongst young people and women. Why is it that the pregnant women in Harrisburg had to be evacuated first? They are the people with compassion and concern for the future generations. We cannot gamble with the wellbeing of future generations. Therefore I believe that the Labor Party's policy, which is a sane policy, and the matter of public importance put forward by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  should be supported by all members of this House. It is a reasonable proposition which says we do not believe the Government should enter into any commitment to open new uranium mining or enter into any contracts until these unresolved problems have been solved. That is our position. We are asking members of this Parliament to act as rational men- there are no women here. Maybe if there were we would have a better understanding of this important issue. I ask the House to support the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Blaxland. 
-Has the Minister for Health examined the national black health program submitted by the National Aboriginal and Islander Health Organisation? If so, does he agree it is a realistic proposal? If he has not examined the proposal, will he, and will he give sympathetic consideration to it? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
Is he able to state what facilities associated with the production of nuclear energy and the production and processing of nuclear materials exist in South Africa. 
If so, which of these facilities are subject to international safeguards and in each case what is the nature of the safeguards arrangements. 
Is he also able to state which countries have supplied nuclear materials or technology to South Africa, and in each case what is the nature of the materials and technology supplied and what safeguards apply to their supply. 
What resolutions of the General Assembly or Security Council of the United Nations apply to the transfer of nuclear materials or technology between South Africa and member countries. 
Has the Government made any assessment, or is it aware of any assessment of any other government, of the nuclear weapons capability of South Africa; if so, what are the results of any assessment. 
What attitude has the Australian Government adopted regarding the transfer of nuclear material or technology between (a) South Africa and Australia and (b) South Africa and any other country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, on notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) Can the Minister say what are the levels of hydrocarbons, oxidants, carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen in the air of (a) each State capital city, (b) Canberra, (c) Darwin, (d) Geelong, (e) Newcastle, (f) Wollongong and (g) Townsville. 
How many times in each of the last 10 years have the levels of hydrocarbons, oxidants, carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen exceeded World Health Organisation standards for (a) long-term and (b) short-term measurements in each of these cities. 
What was the frequency of atmospheric temperature inversion in each of the cities referred to in part ( 1 ) in each of the last 10 years. 
What are the standards for short and long-term measurements of hydro-carbons, oxidants, carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen adopted by (a) Japan, (b) the United States, (c) the European Economic Community, (d) Canada, (e) Australia and (f) the WHO. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, on notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1 ) What pesticides are used to control cattle ticks. 
In what manner are they applied. 
What safety precautions are recommended for their application. 
Has the Government assessed the possible effects of use of these pesticides on human health; if so, what were the results of this assessment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, on notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that  Mr J.  T. Snelson of his Department is the Commonwealth Pesticides Co-ordinator. 
If so, what are the responsibilities of  Mr Snelson  and do they include advising the Government on health and environmental aspects of the use of pesticides and other agricultural chemicals. 
Who were the previous employers of  Mr Snelson  and what are the qualifications of those employers. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) What steps are taken by the Government to monitor local and regional variations in the incidence of cancer, binh abnormalities and genetic disorders. 
Does (a) his Depanment, (b) any State Depanment of Health or (c) any other State or Federal Government authority keep records, on a locality basis, of the incidence of cancer, binh abnormalities and genetic disorders. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) How many Commonwealth policemen were stationed at Maralinga and its immediate surrounds over the period of the British weapons testing program. 
How many of these policemen have (a) since contracted cancer or leukaemia and (b) died of these diseases. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  put: 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 
-I intend to confine my remarks to the matter of public importance which was before the House today, that is, the failure of the Government to provide an effectively administered system of public funds for urban development by State governments. 
I was speaking on the second reading of the previous Bill about the corruption of the Hamer Government in Victoria. 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
In view of the concern over the alarming rate of loss of coastal wetlands expressed by the Australian Heritage Commission in its 1977-78 Annual Report what action will be taken by the Government to secure the protection of remaining areas of coastal wetlands. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1 979: 
1 ) Did he state on the ABC program  AM on  19 February 1979 regarding the Government's decision to withdraw aid to Vietnam that all major donors were reviewing their aid programs, some had decided to suspend their aid and some had decided not to suspend their aid at this juncture-but to give no further aid when the current program ran out. 
If so, can he say (a) which countries provided aid to Vietnam prior to 25 December 1978 and (b) which of those countries have subsequently (i) suspended aid to Vietnam and (ii) decided to cease providing aid to Vietnam at the completion of current programs: 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that since the disbandonment of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development a number of unattached previous officers of that Department have applied for positions in his Department. 
) Is it also a fact that those officers have been subject to a double interview screening, whereas applicants from elsewhere in the Public Service are only required to attend one interview; if so, will he state the reason for this apparent discrimination. 
-Tonight I want to protest briefly about the trees of Canberra. I think that most honourable members here have some feeling and sensitivity for the beauty of the landscape of Canberra, particularly at this time of the year for those trees that originated in the northern hemisphere. I feel that bureaucracy at its worst is occurring in this case in Canberra. At present approximately 160 trees are proposed to be removed to make way for a new road and increased parking space in the area bounded by Walpole Crescent, King George Terrace, the Administrative Offices, King Edward Terrace, Bowen Place and Kings Avenue. The cost of the proposed works will be about $1.8m at a time when the supply of money is extremely restricted. The main purpose of these road works is to ensure that the symmetry of the triangle when viewed from the new parliament house on Capital Hill will be preserved. Of course, the new parliament house will not be completed until sometime in 1988. Included in the road works and alterations are parking spaces much more extensive than the present ones. This is to cope with projected traffic increases following completion of the High Court and National Gallery. It seems that cars are more important than trees. 
Today I made an inspection of the trees that were to be removed. I understand that the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has in fact recommended that these trees be removed. All I can say to honourable members is that the Committee could not have sighted some of the trees or I am quite sure that it would not have agreed to their removal. One has to recognise that probably in the long term the job has to be done in certain cases, but I think there can be a great deal of modification. The matter that concerns me- after all, I was the Minister in charge of the National Capital Development Commission from 1972 to 1975- is that I would have expected the officers of the Commission from the Commissioner down to be far more sensitive in removing some of the trees. Some of the trees were going to be removed just for parking space, not to make room for the road. 
I suggest that honourable members should go and have a look at these trees. They are magnificent Cedrus atlanticas that have been developing for something like 55 years. They are just on the left of King George Terrace, just before the trade group building; in other words, just before you cross over Kings Avenue. I now understand that the NCDC has agreed to keep these trees, but what I am concerned about in the first place is that had there not been a protest against their removal, the Commission's lack of sensitivity would have meant that these beautiful trees would have been removed. There are other trees that the NCDC have not agreed to allow to remain, and they are the Sequoia sempervirens. The Sequoia, as honourable members know, is one of the oldest trees known to man and is also one of the tallest trees. In the first place, one could argue that Sequoias should not have been planted in Canberra, but they are there and some are about 50 feet in height. They are part of the historical development of Canberra. There is a group of them in King George Terrace near Walpole Crescent. 
My last brief remark is that I believe that in Walpole Crescent there are what I think are Zelcovas, members of the elm family. They are beautiful trees which take a long time to develop. It seems to me that they as well should be preserved. First of all, I am making a criticism of the NCDC and its lack of sensitivity in destroying trees in some places. Works can be carried out, but if the Commission carried them out in a sensitive way, the beauty that has taken a long time to develop would not be destroyed, and it should not be destroyed. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
Is he able to state how many nuclear power stations were (a) ordered, (b) cancelled and (c) deferred during 1978 in (i) Japan, (ii) the United States of America, (iii) the United Kingdom, (iv) France, (v) West Germany, (vi) Canada, (vii) Italy and (viii) OECD countries, and in each case what was the generating capacity. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
) Is he able to state how many nuclear power stations were (a) ordered, (b) cancelled and (c) deferred in third world countries during each year since1970 and in each case what was the generating capacity. 
Is he also able to state in each case what was the type of nuclear power station ordered and with which company was the order placed. 
-This is the first time that a major debate has arisen on nuclear industry in this House since the Harrisburg incident. A matter of public importance was moved by the Australian Labor Party at the time of the Harrisburg crisis but this is the first time this issue has been raised. The government of the day determines how debates are carried out in this House. 
If one examines when the debates on nuclear industry are carried out in this House one finds that they take place on a Wednesday evening. Every debate has been put on on a Wednesday evening, when this chamber is off the air and when it is late at night. The Government knows that most newspapers have been put to bed; it knows that they will not get the news out and therefore both the media and the system as a whole are trying to stifle debate on the whole matter of nuclear industry. 
If one looks at the situation, one will see that not many honourable members on the Government side are clamouring to speak in this debate. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  are regular speakers in support of the Government on this topic. Why do we not see the young lions of the LiberalNational Country Party Government debating this important matter which has such an impact on the future of this planet of the human race? The honourable member for Hotham said that we are not concerned about the living standard of the people of the world. In saying that he is referring particularly to those in the underdeveloped parts of the world. Page 56 of the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry deals with the underdeveloped nations of the world. It deals not with hysteria but with fact. What does the report say? It says: 
The evidence also points to the conclusion that  . . nuclear power is unlikely to contribute on a large scale to the energy needs of the less affluent countries. Nor does it appear that the further development of nuclear power in economically advanced countries will make any significant difference to the ability or the willingness of those countries to assist less affluent countries. 
I support the motion put by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant). 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) What (a) are the agespecific rates of incidence of the major forms of cancer in Australia and ( b ) changes have occurred in the incidence of these diseases over the last 30 years. 
Has there been any significant increase in the incidence of any form of cancer over the last 30 years; if so, what is the suspected cause of such an increase. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. On 8 May the Minister claimed in the House that his Government had placed more people in reach of home ownership and brought about a recovery in the building and construction industry. Is he aware that the number of new dwellings commenced in December 1978 was 2,600 which was 13.2 per cent below the level at December 1977 and which was a 13-year low? Is he also aware that between December 1977 and December 1978 there has been a 50 per cent reduction in the number of new public housing commencements? Is he aware - 
I direct my remarks through you,  Mr Speaker,  to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair).  Because substantial time has been taken up in this debate this morning, will the Leader of the House extend the Grievance Day debate to 1 p.m.? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I shall confine my remarks to the migration of refugees from IndoChina to Australia. It is a very complex and delicate issue. The development among the Australian people of tolerant understanding of the situation has not been helped by the antiVietnamese propaganda of the Australian news media. It also has not been helped by the narrow attitude and callous actions of this Government, which merely wants to make political capital out of the refugee situation. Honourable members have to understand the historical background to the present refugee problems. They have to examine the impact that these movements of people are having on the stability of the South East Asian region, and especially the internal effects of the migration on the Vietnamese reconstruction and reconciliation effort. We have to look closely at the effects that this migration is having on political and social life in Australia. 
Frankly, I do not think honourable members really try to understand what 30 years of war has done to Vietnam. Vietnam had to stand up against the most powerful nation in the world- a nation which was spending $35 billion a year and which spent over $ 150,000m in trying to crush that nation. Vietnam is now faced with the complex problem of trying to unify a nation that has been divided for more than 20 years. It has been subjected to pressure from the Chinese to the north and the Kampucheans to the west and south-west. Vietnam has also to contend with the natural calamities that have occurred in that country since 1975. The problems are complex and difficult. It is a harsh life in Vietnam today. Most of the refugees who are coming to Australia want to live a peaceful life; they do not want to get involved in politics. However, there are political elements among the Vietnamese refugees in this country. The leader of that group, particularly in New South Wales, is a former colonel of the Thieu regime,  Colonel Vo  Dai Ton. He demonstrated in New South Wales recently for the purpose of attempting to build a National Restoration of Vietnam. On 2 May 1979 I wrote a letter in reply to what I thought was a biased report about that demonstration in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  I seek leave to incorporate that letter in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 2 May 1979 
The Editor 
Sydney Morning Herald Jones Street Broadway NSW 

 Sir, 

Your article entitled 'soldier in tears calls Vietnamese to battle' (Sydney Morning Herald, 30 April 1979) presents a dangerously distorted view of the Greater Overseas Alliance for the National Restoration of Vietnam and its NSW Chairman Vo Dai Ton. 
Members of that organisation have, in fact, been involved in violent acts of intimidation against Vietnamese people in Australia. Their aim, as reported in the Herald on Thursday April 26, is to discredit and bring down the Vietnamese government. 
Vo Dai Ton, a former colonel and Deputy Minister of Information in the Thieu regime was described in your article as having tears in his eyes and calling for a band of Vietnamese refugees to go back and 'liberate' Vietnam. I am quite surprised at your article which appears to people wishing to make a rational assessment of the role of this group as an implicit endorsement of the existence and activities of this dangerous organisation. This is in some contrast to your article of 1 May 1 978 in which you showed the links between the Greater Overseas Alliance and extreme right-wing Australian groups that seek to create instability in the society here. It is difficult to understand a change of attitude on the part of your paper following the events of Friday 20 April 1979 at which extremist Vietnamese refugees used knives and knuckle dusters to create a riot outside a benefit concert for aid to Vietnam at the Sydney Trades Hall. 
The members and supporters of the Alliance who wore headbands inscribed with the words 'national shame' apparently do not consider their support of the Thieu regime and its atrocities to be shameful. The Thieu regime was a creation of American policy in Indo China that led to unprecedented devastation in Vietnam. About 2 million people were killed in the American war of aggression. Ten million people were displaced and half a million were turned to prostitution and drugs. The heavy bombing of the north and the south created large scale destruction of crops and defoliation that led to the floods of 1978 that have caused major difficulties for the Vietnamese government in trying to reconstruct and reconcile the war-torn society. 
I ask rational people to consider whether this group of extremist refugees is capable of achieving what the American military failed to achieve with the expenditure of $35 billion a year. 
Those Vietnamese who have come to Australia with the intention of making a new life here and who have a positive interest in the life and culture of Vietnam have much to contribute to Australian society. 
Are we to condone a resurgence of violence by groups who seek to continue their political warfare in Australia and create divisions that will inflame the latent racism in our community? 
Yours faithfully, 
TOM UREN, M.P. 
I tried to write a balanced letter in reply to the biased attitude of the  Sydney Morning Herald.  Previously it had given a very rational report about the linking of this extreme element of this refugee group with the extreme right wing of the Liberal Party of New South 
Wales, but for some reason there has been a switch in the approach of the  Sydney Morning Herald.  For some reason it has imposed political censorship and does not intend to publish my letter. I have incorporated the letter in  Hansard  so that the situation can be understood quite clearly. We have to stop the violence that is occurring. Recently a meeting was held at the Sydney Trades Hall to raise funds for the reconstruction of Vietnam and Vietnamese people, led by this element, took violent action. They used knives and stabbed an Australian trade union official. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! It is now 1 o'clock. In accordance with Standing Order 106, the debate is interrupted. I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, on notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) What are the presently accepted standards for (a) hydrocarbons, (b) oxides of nitrogen and (c) carbon monoxide in motor vehicle emissions in (i) Australia, (ii) the United States, (iii) the European Economic Community, (iv) Japan and (v) Canada. 
In each case (a) what changes have occurred in these standards over the last 10 years and (b) what future changes in these standards are scheduled. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice, on 28 March 1 979: 
1 ) How many persons in the Australian Capital Territory have been (a) given notice to vacate Government-owned dwellings or (b) evicted from Government-owned dwellings in each month since January1976. 
How many of these persons were unemployed at the time. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 29 March1979: 
) What Australian companies conduct business in South Africa. 
What Australian Members of Parliament have directorships, share-holdings or other business links with South African Companies. 
What was the value of (a) Australian exports to South Africa and (b) South African imports to Australia during each year from1972-73 to 1978-79, inclusive. 
What are the freight costs for both the imports and exports referred to in part ( 3 ), by mode. 
5 ) What is the value of direct South African investment in Australia, by industry, for each year from 1972-73 to 1 978-79, inclusive. 
What is the value of Australian investment in South Africa in the 3 categories of direct investment, portfolio investment, and other private investment, for each of the same years. 
Has the Export Finance Insurance Corporation been active in promoting Australian exports to South Africa. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 7 March1979: 
Did he state on 10 April 1978 that the Government had agreed that the Uranium Advisory Council should include representation from a national voluntary environmental organisation. 
If so, which organisation is represented on the Uranium Advisory Council and by whom is it represented. 
I do not want to delay the House because I know that we are taking up the time set aside for General Business. But I say to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that this is not a matter of tit-for-tat. There is no doubt about it that from time to time when the Australian Labor Party was in government, it guillotined legislation through the House. It is a matter of government. All we are asking for is a rational discussion. Through you,  Mr Speaker,  I say to the Leader of the House that there are pieces of legislation and ministerial statements on the Notice Paper which will take time to debate. In particular, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill will take some time to debate in this House and therefore a lengthy period will have to be set aside for debate. 
The ministerial statement on defence review has not been debated in depth at all. Certainly a great deal of time would be needed to debate it. The structural adjustment paper, commonly known as the Crawford report, is probably the most important paper on manufacturing industry to be brought before this House. It will have an enormous impact on the future employment of the Australian work force. If the House were to go into recess without a lengthy debate on that very important paper, it would be a travesty of justice. I know that the Leader of the House has a timetable problem, but as pointed out by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is Opposition manager of business, there is room for criticism. What I am concerned about is that the House will go into recess without discussing these very important matters. 
I move: 
That this House is of the opinion that: 
1 ) the Land Commission program as it operates in New South Wales and South Australia is an effective method of attacking speculation in urban land, preventing land booms re-emerging as interest rates fall and encouraging good and just planning through the provision of land for home seekers at a fair price, and 
the dealings in land currently under investigation in Victoria and other transactions in land carried on in secret by people holding high office lead to the unjust profiteering which public intervention in the urban land market through adequately supported Land Commissions can prevent. 
Nine years ago, on 19 March 1970, in this House- it appears on page 637 of  Hansard  of that day- I called upon the Commonwealth Government to co-operate with the State and local government authorities to defeat land speculators and usurers who were exploiting young people seeking homes. Under Liberal and National Country Party governments at the Federal and State levels the corrupt exploitation of home seekers by land speculators and usurers has increased rather than abated over the last nine years. The whole orientation of Libera] and National Country Party governments is to encourage the spivs and speculators to promote an unrestrained system that allows the greedy to make money out of the hardship of others. That is the logic of free enterprise and free trade. That is the logic of the system they promote and support with the force of law- the freedom to exploit. I repeat what I said in 1970 about what the exploiters of the people of Australia were doing by way of inflating land prices. I said: 
Now they are the greatest financial corporations in Australia backed by the great free enterprise banks, all of whose directors and managers appear prominently in  Who 's Who' and the New Year honours list. 
The sad, sick situation is that these people are given the Queen's honours for exploiting. Shareholders invest their money and speculate in property. They allow people to go into debt for many years- 15 years, 20 years and even more by having to pay usurers rate of interest. That is the level of the great burden involved. I said in 1970 and I repeat it now, for the lesson, that most land transactions were financed by three major corporations- the Australian Guarantee Corporation Limited, Associated Securities Limited and the Finance Corporation of Australia. The first was largely owned in 1969 by the Bank of New South Wales Ltd with 42.9 per cent of shares. Now, because the business was lucrative, the bank has increased its shares to 76.6 per cent. The second corporation was largely owned in 1969 by the Royal Bank of Scotland and the British Wagon Co. which held 30 per cent of shares and the South Pacific Insurance Group which held 8 per cent of shares. In 1976 the Bank of Scotland sold its major stake in Associated Securities Limited to Ansett Airlines of Australia which gained 48.4 per cent of shares. Of course, we all know of the position in relation to that corporation. We know of the prominent people involved in it. Men such as the former Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, were involved. That indicates the sickness of the whole system. 
On 8 February 1979 ASL went into receivership as a result of the troubles associated with its property investments. The Finance Corporation of Australia, wholly owned by the Bank of Adelaide Ltd in 1969 and 1979, ran into difficulties through its property investment. It was bought out, together with the Bank of Adelaide, by the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Since 1970 two of those three major property speculators have had their fingers burnt. But so are the little people having their fingers burnt. What concerns me now is who will bear the cost of the speculators' greed. What worries me is not just the tragic legacy that they have left in terms of distorted urban areas and inflated land prices; it is that the few big financial institutions in this country with immense economic power, amassed from the working people, are restructuring their operations in a way that profits the few and further exploits the many across the board. 
We have to take a hard look at the financial institutions which are the cornerstone of the present economy. We have to see the changes taking place in their operations and the effects that their investment decisions will have on the future development of the Australian economy and society in the context of the global changes occurring at the hands of the international financiers. Eight of the top 10 enterprises in Australia, ranked by assets, are financial institutions controlling assets totalling $54,455m. That is twice the total Budget revenue of the Federal Government. The Government of the land is supposed to have the power to determine issues. It is impossible to know who really owns and controls these massive funds. The Australian New Zealand Banking Group that took over the Bank of Adelaide is foreign controlled. Its top 20 shareholders include Barclay's Bank International Ltd- 5.7 per cent- and the Bank of Scotland through various nominee companies. 
The extent of nominee shareholders in the finance sector clouds our ability to understand the degree of interlocking between the banks themselves, other financial institutions, mining corporations and other enterprises. 
The National Bank has among its top 10 shareholders five nominee companies of other banks which hold 20 per cent of the issued capital. The directors of the Australian New Zealand Bank are represented across a wide diversity of firms, including EZ Industries, Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Elder Smith Goldsborough Mort Ltd, L. M. Ericsson Pty Ltd, Volvo Australia Pty Ltd, Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd, Berger Paints Pty Ltd and Dalgety Australia Ltd. In the non-bank financial institutions foreign ownership of the finance companies was 48.3 per cent in 1973. Foreign ownership of general insurance business was 46 per cent and foreign ownership of life insurance business was 37 per cent. Already foreign investment has great control of this country. It was said that there are two ways in which a country can be conquered. One is by military means and the other is by economic means. Clearly, this country is being conquered by economic means every day.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in Queensland, the State in which you live, 85 per cent of the minerals are foreign owned and controlled. Day by day the sad situation worsens. 
Over the past nine years the composition of the finance sector has changed, with the fastest rate of growth occurring in the finance companies, merchant banks, building societies and credit unions. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two tables showing the size of the relative shifts and the amount of capital held by the five largest finance companies. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905244_16_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905244_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. We are now seeing attempts to restructure the finance sector to allow even more foreign penetration and a shift of funds to serve the needs of industry. The call is out to reduce funds available for housing and to set government authorities loose on the private finance market in competition with the private companies which are largely integrated into the patterns of ownership and control of the financial institutions. The result will be that the needs of the people in housing and other services will be neglected while the companies syphon off the funds for their private activities. The barrier will be let down to allow foreign capital to achieve even higher levels of control over the direction of the Australian economy. It is in that context that we have to examine the power of the finance companies, the largest five of which account for 46 per cent of total finance company capital. Apart from those finance companies which have suffered as a result of their property speculation, the big five are operating very profitably. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table prepared by the Parliamentary Research Service showing the porportion of assets and profitability contributed by these five finance companies to their parent banks. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905244_17_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905244_18_4.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The table shows that whilst the Australian Guarantee Corporation held only 10 per cent of the total assets of the Bank of New South Wales it contributed 32.5 per cent of the Bank's profits in 1978. The picture is the same in respect of the financial institution offshoots of every bank or fringe banking institutions as we now call them. Every bank except the Commonwealth Bank of Australia is in a similar situation. The figures in this table reflect the experience of the young borrower who approaches the Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd and is told to go to General Credits Ltd where instead of paying bank rates of interest at about 10½ per cent an interest rate of between 14 per cent and 20 per cent is imposed. 
At the more general level the situation in the community at the moment is that the banks and building societies have heavily pruned their lending to home buyers except those with large savings accrued over a long period. A manager of a Commonwealth Bank in the western suburbs of Sydney told me that the present restrictions are the most severe for the last 40 years. The majority of people are being forced to go to corporations such as Citicorp Australia Ltd and other finance companies to hock themselves for 15 years or more on high interest payments. In spite of the official figures that suggest high rates of housing loan approvals from banks and building societies, the reality is that it is a relative affluent few who can obtain funds from those sources to buy homes that cost about $50,000 and upwards. The average cost of a home in Sydney is now $47,700. There are a hundred thousand families on the waiting list for public housing who cannot afford 20 per cent yearly increases in private rents and who either have to join the 60,000 or more people permanently living in mobile or makeshift homes or seek finance on the high interest rate market and shackle themselves to the drudgery, burden and pressure of paying high interest over a period of 1 5 to 20 years. It is no wonder there is so much nervous tension among a lot of people in our community. 
The escalating house and land prices are in part a result of these kinds of operations. They are a consequence of usury. They are also a result of the deliberate policies of this Government that has cut back on the provision of public housing, a Government that has savagely cut total public housing spending in the 1977-78 Budget by $42m and by a further $143m in 1978-79. That represents a total cut of 30 per cent over two years compared with the 1976-77 spending levels. It represents an irresponsible neglect of urgent social needs. In the forthcoming Budget, we will see a further reduction in spending on housing particularly in the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement in which only last year there was a cut of $70m but in real terms it was much more. The finance companies that are growing rapidly are largely those that have kept out of real estate and have been moving into leasing and consumer durables finance. But the finance companies that did speculate in land have left their mark. As a result of the activities of land speculators, planning authorities in each State have found it extremely difficult to plan for desirable patterns of growth. They have been unable to prevent urban sprawl and to limit the amount of high rise office space, 25 per cent of which is unused in the over-centralised central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne. The plans drawn up by the authorities have been abused by the property speculators seeking a fast buck. The patterns of property investment have influenced the planners' decisions. The standard of living of the people who live in our cities has been doubly damaged, firstly, by inflated land prices and, secondly, by improperly planned cities. The people not only pay through the nose to the usurers but also suffer congested and inadequately serviced living environments. Now that land speculation is no longer the fortune maker, the financial institutions are turning to encourage and profit from the capital and energy intensive industries that will further destroy the physical environment, restrict the supply of jobs and create further hardships for the majority of people. 
The direction in which the Government is prepared to allow the economy to move, powered bythe restructuring of the financial institutions, is against the interests of the majority of people in Australia. It will particularly intensify the problems in our cities. What was required in 1970- and what Labor in government began to implement from 1972 to 1975- is direct public intervention in the supply of jobs, housing and land. If the interests of people on low and middle incomes are to be served, direct and aggressive government intervention, aimed at providing for the needs of the people, is required. It is required urgently more and more every day. As Minister for Urban and Regional Development between 1972 and 1975,I, on behalf of the then Federal Labor Government, sought to establish in cooperation with the States, land commissions that could effectively operate to stabilise land prices, to plan the use of residential and industrial land and to preserve areas of land that required our protection because they were part of our national heritage. In government we set out to try to look after the sentative environment that was being destroyed by the bulldozer mentality. Our position was based on the philosophy expressed in the 1973 report of the Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenures. The  Chairman  of that Committee was  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell. Another prominent member fo the Commission was Professor Russell Mathews, a great public servant- a great servant of Australia. Another member was  Mr Dusseldorp,  a major private enterprise, rational and progressive businessman in this country. That Commission said: 
Land is a finite resource to be used for the benefit of the community rather than an object of speculative individual interest . . . Because development rights ensue from government action, it is the community generally and not individual land holders who should reap the benefits accruing from such rights. 
Are hot those words so true and correct? In 1970 I said: 
This crisis, this chaos, this law of the jungle, this exploitation of the many by the few can and must be solved by planning. 
We warned them of the consequences of speculation and we gave notice that as a government we would intervene in the supply of land and in control over the use and pricing of land. I now say to those finance companies, and other speculators which may shift their attention to the making of profits at the expense of the Australian people through investment in uranium mining, aluminium smelters and other hazardous industries that will affect the future of our cities and the way of life of our people; you will get your fingers burned again. We will intervene in the supply of those resources that belong to the Australian people. Why was it that the Finance Corporation of Australia- which is now in financial difficulties- a wholly owned finance arm of the Bank of Adelaide, speculated in land in every State of Australia except South Australia? It was because the operations of the South Australian Land Commission, which was set up by the South Australian Labor Government in cooperation with the Federal Labor Government, did not allow room for such speculation. Why was it that FCA was not able to go on leading the country astray with over-valued estimates of its property assets? It was because the New South Wales Government refused to allow it a prospectus. There are many other apects I would like to mention but time does not permit, but already the sick story of the Finance Corporation of Australia Ltd and that of Associated Securities Ltd has been told in detail. Government intervention in co-operation with the States, local government and the private sector is needed to develop and set up land commissions as statutory authorities to make sure that land is brought to the people a t a fair price. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is there a seconder to the motion? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Which synthetic chemicals or other substances presently in use in Australia are being investigated as a possible cause of birth defects, genetic disorders, cancer or other diseases amongst exposed populations by (a) the National Health and Medical Research Council, (b) the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Occupational Health and Safety Administration or Food and Drug Administration and (c) any Australian university or medical institution. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Has there been any significant increase, on a national basis, in the incidence of any forms of genetic disorders, or birth abnormalities over the last 30 years; if so, (a) for which conditions has an increase been observed, (b) what is the extent of the increase and (c) what are the suspected causes. 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware that between March 1978 and March 1979 employment in the constructon industry fell by 9,500? Is he also aware that between June 1975 and March 1979 construction industry employment fell by 66,700 and that there are now 3 1,700 persons surveyed as unemployed whose last jobs were in the construction industry? Is the Minister aware that Government public works spending contributes to two-thirds of non-residential construction activity? Does he agree that further cut-backs in public works and public housing spending by this Government will increase unemployment? 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  set out the Government's case as to why the Government should support the corporate sector. In my contribution, I intend to set out the reasons why we should not support the corporate sector- the wealthy few- at the cost of the many. Last night the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced the latest set of cuts in public sector expenditure and the latest set of increased taxation burdens on the majority of the working people. He said. 
The corporate sector is having a welcome return to confidence in Australia 's long term economic potential. 
Let us be very clear what that means and let us understand why the Treasurer has announced the imposition of further burdens on the majority of the Australian people. In 1975-76, the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd declared a profit of $63.8m. By 1977-78 that profit had increased to $84.6m. Comalco Ltd increased its profit of $26.3m in 1975-76 to $45. lm in 1977-78. ICI Australia Ltd increased its profit of $2 1.5m in 1975-76 to $48.5m in 1977-78. So now we know where the real profits are going. 
This list could be extended, but there can be no doubt that under this Government there has been an enormous transfer of wealth to the corporate sector. The fact is that the corporate sector is doing well, and I base my assertion on the profits that the various companies have chosen to declare. My assertion is not based on the real profits that they made internationally. It is the big corporations that are making excessive profits in this country. About 200,000 companies operating in Australia make out a taxation return each year yet fewer than 400 companies- less than one-fifth of one per cent of all companiesshare more than 50 per cent of all company profits. Those who benefit from these profits are not the majority of the Australian people whose resources are exploited or the workers who produce the goods and services. In 1960, 5 per cent of all shareholders in Australia's largest public companies held 55 per cent of all shares. By 1974, only 3.5 per cent of shareholders controlled 54 per cent of ordinary shares. Within the last few years, we have seen an even further contraction of that percentage. This has given rise to the situation whereby the wealthiest 10 per cent of the population owns almost 60 per cent of the total wealth of Australia. It is a very small but a very wealthy elite which is profiting  from  this situation while the majority are the ones paying the real costs. Ninety-two per cent of dividend income from company profits goes to only 10 per cent of the Australian population. 
The Department of the Treasury has estimated that the current amount of tax avoidance amongst this group totals almost $3,000m a year. In 1977-78, $1.1 billion of company profits was sent by firms operating in Australia to their overseas parent companies. I repeat: In one year alone $l,100m in company profits went out of this country to parent companies overseas. This has contributed to the increasing balance of payments difficulties and the crisis that has arisen with regard to the deficit in the balance of the current account. The situation is worsening every year. That is the crisis that this Government has to face. It is the real question with which we have to deal, but with which this Government is not dealing. This Government, through its present policies is exacerbating the situation. Within Australia in 1969-70 companies paid 37 per cent of their gross profits in tax. But last year they paid only 30 per cent. Company taxes have in fact declined as a proportion of total tax paid from 16.6 per cent in 1970-71 to 1 1.7 per cent in 1976-77. 
If we look back even further, we see that in 1968-69 company tax made up 29.5 per cent of total income tax receipts. But by 1978-79,  company tax  made up only 1 9.8 per cent of total income tax receipts. In 1 977-78 those companies were handed back, through various concessions given by this Government, a full one-third of their tax pay-out. Direct assistance to companies by way of tax concessions rose from $2 80m in 1974 to over $900m in 1978. Over the same period, company tax paid increased by only 45 per cent while personal income tax increased by more than 72 per cent. Workers contributing to the pay-as-you-earn taxation system contributed 41 per cent of the tax revenue collected in 1 975-76. They now contribute 45 per cent. 
At the same time as this Government has given massive handouts to companies in the form of industry assistance totalling around $5,000m, it has reduced savagely social welfare spending in the last three Budgets. At the same time as these transfers of public funds to private companies have been made, the big international corporations overseas have been making bigger profits but paying less tax. The 20 largest industrial companies in Great Britain made $6,9 17m in 1977 but paid only $232m or 3.3 per cent in tax. Twelve of them paid no tax at all. The biggest profit maker, British Petroleum, paid no tax and neither did Rio Tinto Zinc which owns 76 per cent of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia. 
What does this mean? What does the Treasurer's callous mini-Budget mean? It means that this Government is so willing to boost the profits of the corporate sector that it is prepared to impose huge burdens on the Australian people. It is prepared to let these big profit makers reduce their tax payments and send large sums of money out of the country. It is prepared to cut back ruthlessly on social welfare spending such as health, education, housing and protection of the environment, to make room for greater handouts to the corporate sector. It is prepared to ruin the national economy for the sake of foreign corporations, because the Fraser Government in its own mind is really committed to this minority group. The Government believes that the corporate sector will be the salvation of this country. That is this Government's belief because it believes in sectional leaders and it represents the corporate sector. That is this Government's mentality. The Fraser Government now faces a situation whereby its deficit forecasts have blown out, not because it has tried to provide services to the Australian people- in fact it has not; it has cut back on them- but because it has been redistributing public funds, and funds that do not exist, to serve private profit. 
I warn the Government that it has moved too quickly to transfer funds to the corporate sector. As a result it has lost control of the economy. It has also lost control of its Budget deficit. The Government has now been forced to pull back some of those incentives to private industry such as the stock valuation adjustment allowance because it cannot afford to keep up its massive handouts to the private sector. Therefore it has decided to squeeze the Australian people even more by imposing higher tax burdens on them. Of course, in this mini-Budget we again saw an increase in taxation. We again saw an increase in taxes on health. We saw a further burden being imposed with regard to housing. We saw real wages being reduced. We saw the cutting back even further of social welfare spending. I have mentioned just a few of these cut-backs, but they do have extremely wide implications. To give further support to my arguments, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a set of tables prepared by the Industries Assistance Commission showing the kinds of concessions and subsidies given to these private companies. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905292_75_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905292_76_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905292_77_2.jpg"></graphic>

Source:  Review of the Continuing Expenditure Policies of the Previous Government,  Report of the Task Force appointed by the Prime Minister, the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, Q.C., M.P. June 1 973. 
Source: Australian Post Office,  Financial Statistical Bulletin,  1971-72. 
The Government decided to discontinue the Petroleum Products Prices Stabilisation Scheme from 1 August 1974. The amount shown for 1974-75 represents final payments on outstanding claims. An amendment to the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act 1965 has re-established this subsidy. 
The Petroleum Search Subsidy Scheme expired on 30 June 1974. The amounts shown for 1974-75 and 1975-76 represent payments made for approved exploration programs completed before the expiry date. 
Total of 'Developmental' and 'Essential' rural services. Subsidies for 'Essential' rural services ceased on 30 June 1974 and 'Developmental' service subsidies were phased out by 30 June 1977. 
1. Expenditure on the provision of coastal navigation services less revenue obtained from light dues. 
Commission estimate of interest forgone based on rates for government long term bonds. 
Following proposals of the 1973-74 Budget, these assistance measures were withdrawn or reduced. 
The Australia Council's programs of support for the arts are included in this item. The Council operates with the co-operation of boards responsible for theatre, music, literature, aboriginal arts, crafts and visual arts. Assistance is mainly in the form of direct grants to offset costs. 
Special concessions for primary producers included in these figures were withdrawn during 1 973-74. Special concessions for mining companies were reduced in the 1 974-75 Budget. Double depreciation applied to certain plant and equipment installed in the period 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1976. Normal depreciation applies in respect of plant first used or installed after 30 June 1976. The large increase in 1977-78 expenditure results primarily from the introduction of the trading stock valuation adjustments provisions. 
The investment allowance, a special deduction equal to 20 per cent of the cost of certain plant, was withdrawn in respect of expenditure on or after 22 August 1973 unless incurred under a contract entered into before that date. The new investment allowance which applies to plant purchased on or after 1 January 1 976 is a deduction generally equal to 40 per cent of the cost of the new plant and applies to a wider range of plant, including leased plant. In the period 1 July 1978 to 30 June 1985, a 20 per cent investment allowance applies. 
Moneys paid on shares in mining companies after 7 May 1973 are not deductible. 
Concessional rates apply to some overdrafts, term loans, farm development and Commonwealth Development Bank loans. 
Training of workers includes trade union and apprenticeship training, NEAT and the Education Program for Unemployed Youth. 
Includes concessional advances to the States for War Service Land Settlement (less repayments) and grants to the States for soil conservation. 
Source:  Report of the Auditor-General upon the Treasurer's Statement of Receipts and Expenditure and upon other Accounts,  1972-73 to 1976-77. 
Source: Department of the Treasury,  Appropriation Bills Nos. 1 and 2,  1973-74 to 1977-78. 
Includes contributions to research in the meat, poultry, chicken meat, dried fruits, dairy, wheat, tobacco, pig, barley, wine, fishing and wool industries. 24 The charge of 0.6 cents per lb on all beef exports introduced in 1973-74 to recoup the Commonwealth's expenditure incurred in this campaign was suspended from 1 
March 1976. From 1 July 1976 recoupment is by way of a livestock slaughter levy. 
Source: Reserve Bank of Australia,  Annual Report,  various years. 
Incorporated in the Export Development Grants Scheme from 30 June 1 974. 
Commission estimate of interest forgone, based on the difference between government long term bond rates and Reserve Bank rates. Source: Reserve Bank of Australia,  Statistical Bulletin,  various years. 
Australia Post estimate of losses incurred within the Registered Publications service, which reflect the extent of the subsidy to publishers of registered newspapers and periodicals. 
This item is advances net of repayments and is a form of interest-free loan- the true cost is the interest forgone. 
Covers the activities of the Australian Film Commission in encouraging the making, promotion, distribution and exhibition of Australian films (including television programs). 
1 .  For technical reasons, the net subsidy equivalent of the assistance afforded the manufacturing sector is not the sum of the net subsidy equivalents of the assistance provided to individual industries in the sector. However, an indication of the significance of tariff assistance for manufacturing industries, is that in 1975-76 the basic metal products industries received a net subsidy equivalent of $258m and chemical, petroleum and coal products $24 1 m. 
In general, the necessary data for the calculation of assistance due to quantitative restrictions are not available. However data on quantitative restrictions in the manufacturing sector is provided in Table 2.1.11 and Appendix 2.2. 
The policy of giving preference in Government purchases to Australian manufacturers has resulted in an estimated additional cost to the Government in excess of $3.3m over the period October 1 976 to June 1 978. 
Following proposals of the 1975-76 Budget, these assistance measures were reduced. 
Department of the Treasury,  Export Incentive Grants and Payroll Tax Export Incentive Rebates,  press releases. 
The sales tax exemptions are estimated as 15 per cent of value of sales. Source: ABS,  Manufacturing Commodities: Principal Articles Produced,  various years. 
This item includes expenditure on the Trade Commissioner Service, matching grants to primary product marketing boards and trade publicity fairs, displays and trade promotion visits. 
Discontinued from the end of 1973. 
Includes the scheme of capital grants for the development of tourist attractions, which has now been terminated. 
The extent of assistance is the differences between domestic sales revenue valued at home consumption prices and export parity. 
Source: Department of the Treasury,  Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities,  1 973-74 to 1977-78. 
Assistance is made available partly as grants and partly as loans; figure represents grants only. The Dairy Adjustment Program replaced and broadened the Marginal Dairy Farms Reconstruction Scheme. The program was due to expire on 30 June 1 976, but was extended to 3 1 December 1 976. The Rural Adjustment Scheme now replaces the Rural Reconstruction Scheme, Dairy Adjustment Program and the program of Assistance to the Beef Industry all of which were terminated on 3 1 December 1976. 
A Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme was introduced in 1973-74. Assistance was available in the form of closure compensation payments and consultancy grants, and special assistance was also available for firms in nonmetropolitan areas. Structural adjustment assistance to industries and individuals is outlined in Table 2.1.9. 
In 1976-77, gold mining profits were exempted from taxation. In previous years, the following items were also exempted from taxation: 20 per cent of profits from certain prescribed minerals; dividends paid out of profits from sales of petroleum; and income from sale of mining rights. 
Estimates obtained from the Commissioner of Taxation. 
-I thank the House. The assistance set out in these tables is not the whole story. We have to add the incentives at the State level, which are described in a table prepared by the Department of Industry and Commerce. I seek leave to have that document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905292_79_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. That is not the whole story. We should add to it the benefits given to private companies by the provision of infrastructure costs, by transport services, by electricity subsidies, by subsidies on the sewerage schemes, by research and development carried out by the CSIRO and in our universities, and the training of workers in the education system. These are all, in part, subsidies made directly by Government to the corporate sector. The total cost of subsidies of private profit at public expense are massive. The public is paying not only through the transfer of public funds taken from workers and redistributed by the Government and the finance institutions, it is also paying through cutbacks in the provision of social services and the availability of jobs. Since 1975-76 the social wage has been cut by over $5,000m. This has been the cost of transfer from the workers, the great mass of people of Australia, across to the corporate sector, which represents a very small minority of our companies and a very small minority of our population. 
There are now 437,000 people officially classified as unemployed. According to the Bureau of Statistics, there are another 373,000 discouraged workers, unemployed but not registered. That is a total of something like 800,000 people in this  country who are unemployed. The sad thing about it is that that is not the end of it. The unemployment situation in this country will continue to worsen. The whole sad situation is that more and more lives are going to be threatened, more and more young lives are going to be destroyed completely by the actions of this Government. That is the huge social cost in terms of hardship caused to those people. It is a massive economic cost in terms of taxation revenue forgone, unemployment benefit outlays and reduced spending powers. Imagine the spending power and the stimulus that would be given to the economy if we had those 800,000 people in employment. What a healthy economy we would have. But the social costs are even higher in the long term. The kind of economy that the corporations want to see in Australia, an economy based on the export of processed resources and a closer real and financial integration into the world capitalist economy, will demand even higher public subsidies and cause even greater problems in society in terms of inequitable distribution of wealth, the destruction of the physical environment, air and noise pollution, traffic congestion, the degradation of a person's work, and the further loss of jobs in this country. 
The economic problems that we are now experiencing are only the first signs of the kinds of problems we will see as a result of the structural adjustment policy pursued by this Government in favour of the corporate sector. This miniBudget and the whole of the Government's process has been to transfer wealth away from the many to this selfish sector. I believe that it is about time that more and more small farmers and small businesses really understood that this is a Government that respresents big businessthe corporate sector. It really does not represent Australia 's interests at all. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 29 March 1 979: 
1 ) What South African representations were made to the Australian Government to withdraw Qantas flights from the Sydney- Johannesburg route. 
Was South African Airway granted (a) extra flights and (b) rights to concession fares on this route; if so, why. 
What was the net revenue to Qantas from this route in each of the 2 financial years prior to the withdrawal of Qantas ' rights to operate these services. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) Can he say what commercial scale uranium enrichment plants are in operation throughout the world and in each case what is the plant's capacity and the cost of production per separative work unit. 
Is he also able to say what uranium enrichment plants are under construction and in each case what is the projected capacity and start-up date. 
Can he also say from what countries and in what proportion does (a) France (b) the United Kingdom (c) Japan (d ) West Germany (e) Italy (f) Sweden (g) Switzerland (h) Canada and (i) Finland obtain uranium enrichment services. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 March 1 979: 
What (a) Commonwealth and (b) State procedures exist for granting formal approval for the use and sale of new synthetic chemicals. 
What provision is made in each of these procedures for assessing (a) environmental and (b) health effects of the use of those chemicals. 
asked the Minister for Heath, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Can he state whether the United States Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare recently stated that it was his opinion that a full 20 per cent of cancers may be caused by occupational exposure to industrial carcinogens. 
) Has the Government taken any steps to investigate the extent to which factors related to the work environment affect the incidence of cancer in Australia; if so, what are the findings of any investigations; if not, what steps are proposed to investigate this matter. 
Does (a) his Department, (b) any State Department of Health or (c) any other government authority keep occupation-specific records of the incidence of cancer or birth abnormalities; if so, what periods of time and occupational categories do they cover. 
-by leave- I listened to the broadcast of the Senate. The  President  of the Senate read out the statement by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns).  My colleague,  Senator Cavanagh,  has withdrawn and has apologised. 
-In the few minutes left I want to talk about peace and security for the people of the western suburbs of Sydney, particularly as regards the question of youth unemployment. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  should understand well the problems of the western suburbs of Sydney. 
-Well, instead of the Minister carrying on this dole bludger plan in accordance with the mentality of his Government he should know that in places like Mt Druitt - 
-I was not accusing the Minister of making that charge. I was pointing out the dole bludger mentality of Government supporters to the unemployed, particularly those in places like the western suburbs of Sydney. The fact is that in places like Mt Druitt, for every vacancy that occurs there are over 300 people unemployed. It is about time that this Government started to carry out a public works program in the western suburbs of Sydney. It is time that the Government built the Parramatta centre proposed by the Labor Government to house public servants. The land has been acquired and the plans have been approved. All that remains is for the work to go ahead. The centre is needed urgently. It is about time that this Government started to carry out those public works in the western suburbs of Sydney to try to stimulate employment in that region. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1 979: 
1 ) What action has been taken by the Commonwealth Government to investigate and monitor the effects of urban air pollution on the health of residents of Australia 's major cities. 
What are the health effects of breathing air containing (a) oxidants and (b) carbon monoxide, and at what levels do these effects occur. 
What is the incidence in (a) Sydney and (b) Melbourne of diseases which are related to chronic exposure to (i) oxidants and (ii) carbon monoxide in the air. 
What changes in the incidence of these diseases have occurred in the last 30 years. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-Yes. During Question Time the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said that I had threatened uranium mining companies about commitments entered into for the export of uranium. I have made no threats. I have expressed the clearly stated policy of the Labor Party, which resulted from a unanimous decision of all sections of the party, that until all the unresolved problems have been resolved it will not honour any contracts entered into or any commitment made by a non-Labor government. I have said that we would stand by that commitment. Each time I make that statement I quote specifically from Labor Party policy. 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley-Leader of the Opposition)- I wish to make a statement on the same matter. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  in support of the suspension of Standing Orders-- 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I give notice that at the next day of sitting I will move: 
That this House notes that- 
1 ) the Government has failed to act on the assessment report of the Nabarlek uranium project prepared by the Department of Science and the Environment which revealed that radiation levels at the mine site are five to 10 times higher than Queensland Mines estimates and that workers in the mine would be exposed to lethal dosages of radiation should they work for more than 3 hours a day over the 29 week extraction period; 
the Government has failed to demand that the company make changes to its extraction procedures and provide for the regular monitoring of radiation levels by independent health physicists located at the site in the interests of protecting the health of mine workers; and 
3 ) the Government has failed to draw on the experience in the United States of America where several hundred uranium miners have died from lung cancer and pulmonary fibrosis as a result of exposure to radiation at the site. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to amend the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1 975 to facilitate the development of the township at Jabiru. We know that that township is to be located in the Kakadu National Park, a unique area; indeed one of the most beautiful areas not just in Australia but in the world. The Government has decided that the mining town to serve the uranium mines developed in the region would be included in the Kakadu National Park and would be a closed town with a limited population. The town will be developed on land leased from the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and will be subject  to a plan of management. The National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act requires the Director of National Parks and Wildlife as soon as practicable after a park or reserve has been declared to prepare a plan of management in respect of that park or reserve. The Director has to follow a series of steps directed by the Act in preparing the plan of management, including the receipt of public submissions and making the plan available for comment by interested persons. I will have something to say about that later, particularly the conflict that exists between the conservative and, one might even say, reactionary leadership within the Northern Territory Government, especially under the leadership. of  Mr Everingham,  the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory. He is very much at loggerheads with the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and that, of course, means that he is in conflict with the Government here in Canberra on that matter. Even though I think the Government in Canberra is a very conservative government, no matter how conservative it is it does not have to the same extent the reactionary elements that exist within the Northern Territory Government. 
It was the Government's intention that by including the town site in the national park the town would be planned and managed in accord with the park plan of management. The last point in this respect that I want to dwell upon is that the Jabiru Town Development Authority is to be established under this legislation as a statutory authority responsible for the development of the township. I am quite sure that there will be continuing conflict between that body which is under the control of the Northern Territory Administration and the Parks and Wildlife Service. 
The Australian Government is responsible for the protection of the Kakadu National Park as a national asset. This Park is one of the world's great national parks and this Government says that it will continue to be. We on the Opposition side question that claim. We believe that the mining of uranium in the area will lead to the raping and destruction of many of the beautiful aspects of the park, including its natural points of beauty which have existed for thousands of years. Future development aspects will be affected also. We on this side say that the mining of uranium in the area will rape the lifestyle and the environment of the Aboriginal people. We say that the mining will pollute the waters of the Alligator Rivers system and will create a good deal of havoc. We say that clearly- and I will argue this point later on- insufficient work has been done from a scientific point of view to overcome the problems that will result from mining activities. Even those people who carry out the Government's business are stating that. Later in my comments I will quote what  Mr Fry,  the Supervising Scientist, had to say. 
The Labor Party will divide the House on the motion that the Bill be read a second time. We will divide again on the third reading. We will divide when those questions are put because this piece of legislation is interrelated with the Government's uranium mining policy. If this township is developed to house the people who will work the Ranger operation, the development will be extended to the Pancontinental mines, when they are given authority to mine, so as to house the people who will work them. The people who will work at Nabarlek will not be involved. Originally, because of the concern expressed at the inquiry into Ranger- what we now call the Fox Commission- it was thought that the uranium mining development would be sequential. It was thought that Ranger would be developed. Later probably there would be development of Nabarlek. It may be necessary to develop the Pancontinental mining area. 
The interesting aspect of the proposed mining activity is how the Northern Land Council was duped into signing the agreement. I believe that the evidence that I will place before this Parliament will prove that the manner in which the agreement was signed makes that day one of the darkest days of our history. It is evidence of the way in which the Ranger agreement was forced onto the Northern Land Council. Anyone who reads the transcripts of the discussions at that time between the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the present Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)-  and many people now refer to him as the 'Minister for Unemployment'- and the Northern Land Council will see who was the guilty man. Historians will write the real truth of the barbarism that was perpetrated at that time. It will be to the dishonour of this Government. Many people will call this Government a racist government because of the attitude that it took at that time. 
I want to make clear the reason why the Opposition will divide on the second and third reading motions. The Government's proposal is contrary to the Labor Party's policy on uranium mining. The Labor Party's policy is that, having regard to the present unresolved economic, social, biological, genetic, environmental and technical problems associated with the mining of uranium and the development of nuclear power in particular, until Australian sovereignty, the needs of our environment, the economic welfare of our people and the rights and wellbeing of the Aboriginal people are understood we will not assist in any way the Government's actions to carry out uranium mining in the Northern Territory. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the Labor Party's policy on uranium as was set out at Perth in 1977. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

THE ALP's URANIUM POLICY 
Uranium- 
Conference recognises that the provision of Australian uranium to the world nuclear fuel cycle creates problems relevant to Australian sovereignty, the environment, the economic welfare of our people, and the rights and well-being of the Aboriginal people. 
Labor believes, that having regard to the present unresolved economic, social, biological, genetic, environmental and technical problems associated with the mining of uranium and the development of nuclear power and' in particular: 
to the proven contribution of the nuclear power industry to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the increased risk of nuclear war; 
the absence of procedures for the storage and disposal of radioactive wastes to ensure that any danger posed by such wastes to human life and the environment is eliminated. 
It is imperative that no commitment of Australia's uranium deposits to the world's nuclear fuel cycle should be made until: 
a reasonable time has elapsed for full public debate on and consideration of the issues; 
the Australian Labor Party is satisfied that the abovementioned problems have been solved; and 
the Australian Government endorses Recommendation 6 of the First Fox Report, which states: a decision to mine and sell uranium should not be made unless the Commonwealth Government ensures that the Commonwealth can at any time . . . immediately terminate those activities, permanently, indefinitely or for a specific period.' 
Accordingly, 
Labor declares a moratorium on uranium mining and treatment in Australia, 
Labor will repudiate any commitment of a non-Labor Government to the mining, processing or export of Australia's uranium, and 
Labor will not permit the mining, processing or export of uranium pursuant to agreements entered into contrary to ALP policy. ' 
This Conference asserts that in the event of the Mary Kathleen Mine being closed down by the Company or in the event of a shortfall from this source in fulfilling existing uranium export contracts, a Labor Government will not allow any new mine to be opened to honour those contracts, but will assist in arranging for the final discharge of obligations under those contracts from overseas sources, as outlined in the First Fox Report 
-I thank the House. The only aspect of our uranium policy that I draw to the attention of the House is that, even if this Government proceeds to develop this township to house people to work the uranium mines of Ranger, when a Labor Government is returned in 1 980, as it will be, we will- and we clearly remind the people of this as we have reminded them so often in the past- repudiate any commitment of a non-Labor government to the mining, processing or export of Australia's uranium. That of course is the real strength of our policy. We of the Opposition are saying to this Government, to the people of Australia and the people throughout the world that we oppose the mining of uranium at this time because of the unresolved problems that exist. I do not have to remind the House of the Harrisburg incident. Do I need to remind the House of the third recommendation of the first report of the Fox Commission. At page 1 85, that report states: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
The nuclear power industry is a very dangerous industry. Uranium mining cannot be divorced from the nuclear power industry because nuclear energy provides the material for the development of nuclear weapons and this increases the risk of nuclear war. The nuclear power industry is interrelated with the uranium mining industry. The 'peaceful uses' of uranium for the nuclear industry cannot be divorced from the manufacture of nuclear weapons and the increased risk of war. That is clearly the situation. That is why the Labor Party stands very firmly on its decision on uranium mining. For the reasons that I have given, more and more people throughout the world are beginning to understand the reason for our opposition to uranium mining. 
We warn the Government, the uranium mining companies and the international financiers who are entering into the mining of uranium in this country that we will repudiate any commitment by this Government. We know that no publicity has been given to the conference being held at the Wentworth Hotel in Sydney. Representatives from most of the big mining companies and most of the financial institutions are present. I might say that most of them are foreign concerns. They include representatives of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd! The word 'Australia' should be in inverted commas. That company is owned by Riotinto of Great Britain. We know that Esso Australia Ltd- an American company- is represented. We know that Getty Oil is represented. It owns 35 per cent of the Pancontinental organisation. Of course the representatives of Pancontinental are there. How much of Pancontinental is owned by foreign interests? All the great financial and foreign concerns are involved because they want to exploit Australia's resources, particularly our uranium. We have given a clear warning. A good deal of investment has been lost in the past particularly in land speculation in this country. People have had their fingers burned. I believe that those who invest in uranium mining in this country will have their fingers badly burned. 
Of course, even on the international scene demand for uranium is falling. We know that the economic aspect is one which will defeat the uranium and nuclear industry in the northern hemisphere. Let me give one example. Who will pay the enormous costs of the crisis that occurred at Harrisburg? Will the company pay? If it does, the cost will be passed on to the taxpayers through increased electricity charges. Will the Government pay? Will we ever really learn the true price of the enrichment of uranium? In the past the enrichment of uranium has been part of the war machine, part of defence expenditure. What about the cost of decommissioning nuclear power stations after their 30 years life has ended? Will they become tombs of the future? What is the real cost to police nuclear waste for a quarter of a million years? People are asking these questions more and more. We know that economics are drying up the nuclear power industry. They will do so more and more. 
I want now to talk about some of the conflicts between the Australian Government representative, the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, and the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory. I refer firstly to an article in the Northern Territory  News  of 1 4 May which stated: 
The Chief Minister,  Mr Everingham,  is angry that Commonwealth national park laws will override Territory laws within the township. 
He is talking about the building of the township of Jabiru. The article continues: 

 Mr Everingham is against wider powers being given to the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, Prof Dereck  Ovington. 
 However, a spokesman said that he thought it had been common knowledge for 18 months that the Commonwealth national parks body would administer Jabiru. 
The article also refers to some comments by my colleague, Bob Collins, who is the member for Arnhem Land which is the area in which uranium will be mined. He is a member of the Labor Party. He is a courageous young man who is totally opposed to uranium mining as are the 
Aboriginal people in Arnhem Land. That has to be made perfectly clear. The article then states: 
.  Mr Bob  Collins, said today 'the whole mess was a national scandal'. 
He said the Chief Minister was inflaming the issue by calling Prof Ovington a 'petty dictator'. 

 Mr Collins said  Mr Everingham  made it clear in radio comments yesterday that uranium development had 'ground to a halt'. 
And so it should grind to a halt until the problems can be solved. I refer now to an article in the  Canberra Times  of 1 5 May which states: 

 Mr Everingham said that Prof Ovington was being a 'dictator' and was 'carving out ' an empire. 

 His actions seem to us to be in total opposition to the Federal Government policy'  Mr Everingham  said by telephone from Darwin. 
We were given assurances that the Northern Territory laws would operate in the Kakadu National Park, nol just the township. Now we find the director intends to make regulations under  his  own authority regarding town planning, liquor licences, law and order. ' 

 Mr Everingham is again quoted several days later in the Northern Territory  News  of 18 May. What did the Chief Minister say? The article states:   . .  Mr Everingham,  said the Commonwealth's latest proposal to amend National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act to overcome the present impasse was unacceptable. 
He means that it was unacceptable to him and to the Northern Territory Government. The article continues: 

 Mr Everingham rejected the proposal, and said that the Jabiru town site should be excluded from the national park area. 
The Minister in his second reading speech is clearly saying that the township must remain within the national park and be protected in such a way. But the 'growth' men of the Northern Territory whose attitude is 'growth at any price' do not want that. They want the township excluded from the national park. They want it under their control. The article goes on: 

 Mr Everingham said it was important Jabiru was outside the national parks, and administered only by Northern Territory laws. 
The article finishes by saying: 
The argument that national parks in the Northern Territory should be under Northern Territory control was also given. 
These articles give the argument of the Northern Territory Government and of the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister is a member of the Country Party which is part of the Federal Government coalition and which also has influential members such as the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  We know that during the debate on this matter many comments were watered down to try to get some peace with the people in the Northern Territory. We ask the people to give some thought to the fact that the Labor Party policy is a sane one. The Government should not rush into this development. Greater thought should be given. What does the Supervising Scientist employed by this Australian Government say? The  Canberra Times  of 6 May states: 
The Supervising Scientist,  Mr Bob  Fry, described yesterday his organisation's operations as ' piecemeal '. 
Because his office has a staff ceiling of 20, much of the scientific and environmental research work has been farmed out to a number of statutory organisations, universities and other tertiary institutions. 
We went on to say: 
We are overloaded, there is no doubt about it. The work is being done but in a piecemeal fashion by the universities and institutions . . . 
What is needed is an overall, master integrating plan that ties all this together . . . that I can't do until I get my staff . . . 
We have enough information now to set standards, but I'm not as confident that these standards will be the right ones as I will be three years from now. 
The Supervising Scientist is talking about the restriction of staff and the fact that he cannot do the job. He cannot keep up with the mining companies. The area is not ready for operations to proceed and yet because of the speed with which the companies are trying to get the fast buck out of uranium mining the work flows on. 
As I said earlier, I want to stress the overall situation. I want to refer to the 'black day' when mining commences. We know that there had to be some agreement with the Northern Land Council to give the go ahead. I would like to quote from papers which I wish to table. I refer to some reports and transcripts of discussions concerning the Ranger agreement. The reports and transcripts relate to meetings held at Oenpelli on 3 November 1978 and at Bamyili on 2 November 1978. I will quote part of these reports. I ask permission of the House to have them tabled. 
Leave granted. 
-I thank the House. As I have said, I will read some quotations from these reports and make some comments on them. 
-I will not quote out of context. If I quote out of context the Minister can read back to me where I misquoted him. I will try as much as possible to quote the Minister verbatim. On the first day of the last meeting with the Northern Land Council at Bamyili on 1 November 1978, in the course of the discussion, the deputy chairman of the Northern Land Council, Gerry Blitner said: 
The traditional owners will tell us when they are ready and I thought that we were all happy with that. And now we have a mysterious meeting here in a mysterious place, with police outside guarding us and we have mysterious doings outside by white people. If those white men have been asked by your people, okay. I am not angry about that or saying that it is wrong- if they have been asked. 1 still want to know if Oenpelli people want this. I say let us work the right way and proper way. 
He was talking to the Minister because the Aborigines were surprised that they had been called together. They did not understand that there would be an agreement and that, in fact, they might sign it. The then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who is now the Minister for Employment  (Mr Viner)  orchestrated a meeting with the Northern Land Council and tried to blackmail the Aboriginal people morally into agreeing to the Ranger uranium development. The Minister spoke to the Council on the second day, 2 November 1978, and then again the following day at Oenpelli. 
Some people might say that the way in which he manipulated the Aboriginal people into sharing his concern that the whole Ranger matter be settled immediately was very clever. I have other expressions for him but if I used them in this place they would be unparliamentary. Therefore, I will not use those expressions. But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you can probably read my mind and you will know what I think of the man. The Minister said time after time that he was worried about concerns of people outside the Aboriginal area. He said repeatedly that he was worried that for six years the Ranger matter had been discussed. That is, he put the blame on the Aboriginal people for delaying the Ranger development for six years when, in fact, his Government had caused several delays and the whole project was not up for discussion until  Mr Justice  Fox had made his report. 
I might also say that the Minister had not been to Oenpelli until July 1976. 1 had been there several weeks before him and no Minister of this Australian Government had been to Oenpelli and talked to the Aboriginal people up until that time. He was the first Australian Minister to do so although many Ministers had been to the area and talked to the mining companies. However, they had never met with the Aboriginal people there up and until that date. If the Minister follows the transcript of those meetings he will see that the Aboriginal people felt guilty. They were made to feel guilty because they had delayed the proceedings. They were softened up to submit to the pressure put on them by the then Minister for 
Aboriginal Affairs, the Government and the Minister's advisers, particularly a  Mr Bishshaw  who played a very sinister and treacherous game in the transaction at that special meeting. The Minister acknowledged that the Aboriginal people in their hearts did not want mining in that area. I quote again from page 9 of the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry: 
The evidence before us shows that the traditional owners of the Ranger site and the Northern Land Council (as now constituted) are opposed to the mining of uranium on that site. 
Clearly, they have always been opposed to it and they are still opposed to it. The Minister claimed that the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Fox report. The Government had not done so. As I have already said, some of the most major decisions on the sequential development have been scrapped. Of course, the rat race is now on. May I remind the House of the fishing expedition recently between Tony Gray of Pancontinental and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who was under pressure in the House today and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  Of course, a deal has been worked out for Pancontinental. That deal will further erode this Government's position and break the sequential development decision of the tax commissioner which was one of the most major recommendations of the Fox inquiry. The Minister then said that the Aboriginals would get a good deal from the development of the project. He then said- I will quote him word for word: 
You have had your traditional owners at Murganella and Mudginberri, telling the Council, telling the negotiator what to do. He has gone away and done it and he said to the Commonwealth fellow- these are my instructions, I want thatand when the Commonwealth have said alright we will agree to it. 
We have been told that your negotiator has been acting on instructions. So I think,  Mr Chairman,  with me here today, it is a good opportunity for us to sit down and talk about it. 
And I would like you to think that it is also a good opportunity to finish it off, to come to a decision and say, right, that is it. 
Because at sometime, a decision has to be made, we can't go on another couple of months, another six months, another 12 months, now we can't go on, you really can't go on, it is no good for the mind to get worried, the Commonwealth, the Government can 't go on, not knowing, you know, when it is going to come to an end. 
 That is the Minister speaking. The transcript continued: 
All the work has been done and that argument has been reached and I think that if we can sit down today, look at it and if you can ask yourself- is it fair? Is it reasonable for all of us? 
And then,  Mr Chairman,  I think you have got some thought of going off to Oenpelli, maybe tomorrow, to talk to the traditional owners, well we can go and talk to them and maybe finish it all up in these couple of days in the same way that 1 settled that border question up there in the Torres Strait. I know after they said, after we did that, the Torres Strait Islanders -  (Extension of time granted). 
The transcript concludes: 
I know after they said, after we did that the Torres Strait Islanders said- well, the ache has gone out of our hearts, we are happy now, we can put that behind us and we can look at the future. 
I will finish on this point: In my view the Minister used his powers, as a Minister, to press and misguide those people into making a hasty decision. I think that this Government will pay the price in the long term. 
-The purpose of the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill which is now before the House is to amend the AlburyWodonga Development Act 1973. This Bill will alter the membership of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation from five to eight members and provides common membership of the Albury-Wodonga development corporations. At present the Corporation is made up of three full-time and two part-time members. The Commonwealth, New South Wales and Victorian 
Ministers are also members of the Ministerial Council. It was also agreed that these objectives could best be achieved by extending the membership of the Corporation to include the Mayor of Albury and the Mayor of Wodonga as ex officio part-time members of the Corporation. The legislation makes provision for a prominent businessman to serve on the Corporation in order to build up its membership. That makes the composition of the Corporation eight members, with the addition of the mayors of Albury and Wodonga and a prominent businessman. The prominent businessman who has been selected,  Mr Russel  Prowse, is a well known banker from the Bank of New South Wales. We know that  Mr Prowse  has ultra-conservative, extreme private enterprise attitudes. The Bill abolishes the Consultative Council, which was composed of 16 members and which tended to create friction among members of the community. The 16 people who represent the community were meant to create friction because we wanted to get the people's views. This elitist type government would never really want to obtain the people's point of view. On behalf of the Opposition I move as an amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading until it is re-drafted to include the following: 
the Government's 1975 Election commitment to give financial and moral support to the future of the growth centre; 
the provision of proper transport and communications links to Albury/ Wodonga; 
provision for the discouragement of private development capital and land speculation, following restructuring of the Development Corporation; 
the re-establishment of a Consultative Council to include broad representation from the Albury/Wodonga community; 
a firm undertaking by the Government to transfer relevant Government departments to Albury/Wodonga from over-centralised Melbourne to assure the future of the growth centre, and 
support by the Government for existing manufacturing industry in the growth centre and the encouragement of new industry there. 
This Government has been hypocritical in its support of not only the growth centre but also urban and regional communities. In fact, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his policy speech of 27 November 1975: 
We will continue urban programs. We are the people who can work with State and local Government to overcome the problems caused by rapid growth in the cities and in new expanding suburbs. 
Of course, we know that the Prime Minister continued to dismantle all urban programs entered into by the the Whitlam Labor Government and set about implementing their complete destruction. There are very few of those programs intact that have been continued. The programs that are intact, such as the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, are given lip service only. What we refer to as ' Fraser 's new federalism' has meant a withdrawal of the Australian Government from any inter-relationship with State and local governments in urban and regional programs. I invite honourable members to look at the Labor Government's commitment on decentralisation. It was a policy of anticentralism because for so long Liberal governments had allowed the market force to determine the development of and even to centralise our cities. Over 60 per cent of migrants who came to Australia between the end of the Second World War and 1972 settled in Sydney and Melbourne. It was their over-centralisation which created the real problem. We had to examine the overall programs in an endeavour to achieve sanity in the development of our cities and to raise the standard of living within our urban communities. 
The average population growth between 1950 and 1970 was 1.9 percent, achieved as to 1.1 per cent by natural growth and 0.8 per cent by migration. If our population had continued to grow from the 1970s through to the turn of the century we would have had 23 million people by then. That means, taking as a base the figure for 1972, even if we were equal to the achievement of decentralisation and could slow the growth of our major cities, their population would increase by a litte over one million. If we look at the world, the best achievement was in Great Britain where between the end of the Second World War and 1970, it was able to slow up the population growth of the major cities by about one and a quarter million. If we could achieve that situation in Australia between 1972 and the year 2000 we would be looking to housing about 9 million or 10 million people in our existing cities. That would be simple madness because most of those people would reside in either Sydney or Melbourne. There were several programs that the Labor Government wished to carry out. Firstly, we had to slow down the population increase. We wanted to work towards an objective of l.l per cent increase or thereabouts from natural growth of population and immigration intake. 
Towards that objective. This would have brought us a population by the turn of the century of about 17.5 million. As it turned out, Professor Borrie came to a very similar conclusion from his population demographic study. I want to make it quite clear that the policies of the Labor 
Government at that time for urban and regional development were geared to a population level of about  ITA  million by the turn of the century. This would have meant, if we could equal Britain's achievement by slowing the growth of our major cities and redistributing the population by diverting them to selected growth centres a little over one million people in that period, then we could have absorbed the other 3.5 million into our other capital cities and made those cities rational places in which to live. That was our objective. We wanted to achieve our objective in several ways. We wanted to try to stop the over-centralisation of what we call the central business districts of Sydney, Melbourne and the other major capital cities. We wanted to develop in the cities what we call sub-metropolitan centre areas and to build a rational transport system within them, instead of having a transport system of the kind that now exists. At the present public transport travels empty from the cities of a morning, returns to the cities in a packed condition, and the reverse situation occurs at night. In other words, our cities are geared to a peak load system. 
We had already obtained agreement with the New South Wales Government on submetropolitan centres for the development of areas such as Parramatta, Penrith, and Campbelltown. In Melbourne we had reached agreement with the Victorian Government over a period of about two years working out a program of agreement. Again this was achieved with co-operation, because the only way we are going to solve these problems is in co-operation between the Commonwealth. State and local governments. We had achieved agreement by which we would have created submetropolitan centres at places such as Broadmeadows, Sunshine, Dandenong and the EppingWatsonia area. That agreement was reached between our Federal Labor Government and the Hamer Government. On top of that, we wanted also certain selected growth centres and the major priority was the Albury- Wondonga Development Corporation. Our study revealed that there were 18,000 too many Commonwealth public servants in the central business district of Melbourne. The great proportion of those 18,000 would have been diverted to selected sub-metropolitan centres in Melbourne as well as the other selected growth centres of Geelong and Albury-Wodonga. That was the pattern that we would have adopted. Some of the Commonwealth public servants would have transferred to the other selected growth centre at Bathurst-Orange. Of course, we know that in the change of government in 1975 these programs ceased and the free market forces have continued. The present Government has undermined completely the whole program of anti-centralisation and also has scuttled what it calls 'selected decentralisation' in every shape and form. 
The Minister asks about the population level. 1 stress that the Government's objectives in relation to the population level have not altered and the Opposition's objectives have not altered. It is the growth rate that has altered because of the downturn in the economy of the western world. In particular, the Australian economy has gone through a disastrous period. This has had an influence on growth patterns. But people still have to be housed. It is better to house them in a rational way rather than in an irrational way. The present Government represents nonplanning. It consists of non-planners. It is controlled by the Treasury. The Treasury does not believe in planning the economy. It believes in the market forces- the free enterprise system and the power of the corporate sector- determining growth. It does not believe in planning in any shape or form. That is the truth of the matter. That is why this Government has undermined and destroyed the urban and regional development programs that the Labor Government established. 
The Labor Government came to power in December 1972. On 25 January 1973-an extremely historic day- an agreement was reached between the Australian Government and the two conservative governments in Victoria and New South Wales. Those Governments worked together in a spirit of co-operation. Local government was also included in the agreement. I will never forget the tensions that existed between the public servants on the day of that historic conference. During the three years of Labor administration from 1972 to 1975 I was extremely proud of the public servants in the Department of Urban and Regional Development. They were part of a special breed of public servants who set out to build up a basis of goodwill, who sought to build a bridge of co-operation between the Australian Government, State governments and local government authorities. They discussed matters in a gentle way with State governments and local government. There is nothing worse than what I saw on the day of the conference. I saw the fear and suspicion of State public servants of the people coming from Canberra. There was an uptight situation. They thought that we were men from Mars or from a foreign land, not representatives of the Australian Government coming to have discussions with a State government. The public servants in the former Department of Urban and Regional Development were great ambassadors for the Australian Government and the Australian Public Service. They set out to cooperate. After two years of negotiations between Commonwealth public servants and planners and the Hamer Government in Victoria we were able to reach agreement on where development in Melbourne should occur. By June 1976 we had invested $90m in Albury-Wodonga. Of that amount $79m went directly to the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation. 
Of course the bulk of the money went into land. That is where real wealth lies. Why should the people not own the land? An enormous investment in infrastructure is needed in an area which is to be developed. Urban land is worthless until the infrastructure is put on it by the public sector. Why should not the public sector- by that I mean the people- benefit from that investment? The investment inland represented a sound base for the development program. We invested in land so that we could stop the land speculators. Honourable members opposite support land speculation. They were supporters of Associated Securities Ltd and the Finance Corporation of Australia in Adelaide and the enormous speculation in land. Those organisations tried to reap profits from the young people in this country. Of course, eventually people had their fingers burnt. 
Of course we invested in land. That is why, in the long term, Albury-Wodonga will be a great success. When the Labor Party returns to government in 1980 we will make sure that the spirit is reborn and we will give encouragement and stability to the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. The only way to give that stimulus is for the Government to say that it is behind the Development Corporation. When in government we will transfer public servants from the overcentralised business district of Melbourne. We will create a stimulus and we will encourage manufacturing industry in Albury-Wodonga. We will protect industries in Albury-Wodonga and in other decentralised areas. We will not squash them as this Government has squashed them. 
Commitments to the Albury-Wodonga growth centre were made by the Labor Government when it was in office. Up to 30 June 1976 the investment amounted to $90m. The Fraser Government in its first year in office made $ 1 9m available to the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. In the same year it made available $ 1 ,850,000 to local government in the area. It had made many millions of dollars available previously because it knew of the strain on those local councils. The Prime Minister said that the Government would continue its urban programs. What did it do? In 1 977-78 it cut back the funds to the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation to $5m. What did it give to local government in the area? It did not give local government an extra penny. In the following year, 1978-79 the Government allocated a further $5m to the Development Corporation, a mere pittance to carry out its programs. It did not make any further money available to local government. 
The amendment which the Opposition has moved represents a constructive criticism of the Bill. In a way, I am grateful for any crumb that falls from the table. At least the Government has not completely destroyed the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. When a Federal Labor government is re-elected it will be able to give the Development Corporation the spirit it needs to carry out its program. I could say much more about our urban and regional development program as a whole. An integral part of that program was the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. However, I know that honourable members want to go home after a long session. I know that my colleague is waiting to deal with legislation. Therefore, instead of speaking for 30 minutes I will shorten my speech. I hope that the few remarks I have made in regard to the Development Corporation will lead to a better understanding of the Corporation in the Parliament. I hope that they will wipe away the hypocrisy about what this Government is doing. It is not meeting its commitment. The only way that AlburyWodonga will take off, be a success and show the over-centralised areas of Sydney and Melbourne that decentralisation can work, is for a federal government to have the guts, the courage and the commitment to support a decentralisation program and the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. Only then will decentralisation succeed in this country against overcentralisation and the greed of the free market forces. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1) Can he say whether the Reactor Safety Study prepared for the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission by Professor Rasmussen of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology is no longer regarded as reliable by the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
Can he also say whether this study formed the basis of the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission's assessment of the safety of light water reactors. 
Is the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's assessment of the possible consequences of a major accident at the Lucas Heights Research Establishment, NSW, based on the findings or the methodology of this study; if so, what action is proposed to review safety at Lucas Heights. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
Is he able to state when the pilot nuclear fuel reprocessing plant at Tokai-Mura, Japan, commenced operation. 
Is he also able to state what is the mass and type of fuel which has been reprocessed since the operation commenced. 
3 ) If so, has the plant operated continuously. 
If the plant has not operated continuously, for what periods has the plant been shut down, and in each case what were the reasons for ceasing its operation. 
5 ) Is any expansion in nuclear fuel reprocessing planned or under construction in Japan; if so, what is the capacity, type and projected date of commencement of any plant. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many proposed actions under the terms of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act have been notified to the Department of Science and the Environment, and the Department's predecessor, during each year since operation of the Act commenced. 
How many draft environmental impact statements have been (a) required by, and made available to, the Department, (b) made available for public comment in part only and (c) made available for public comment in full in each year over this period. 
What proposed actions or classes of proposed actions have been exempted from all or any of the requirements of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act and the Administrative Procedures approved under the Act. 
Which proposed actions have been altered as a consequence of their assessment under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act and in each case what were the alterations. 
Which proposed actions have not proceeded subsequent to being subject to all or any of the requirements of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act and the Administrative Procedures approved under the Act. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) How many apprentices have been employed in each State under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice FullTime Training (CRAFT) Scheme in each year since its inception. 
What are the names of the companies and Departments employing these apprentices and how many have they employed in each year. 
) Have any companies or Departments been refused assistance under the CRAFT Scheme; if so, which companies and Departments and for what reasons. 
Is there any preference given to employers in particular industries for use of assistance under the CRAFT Scheme; if so, which industries. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
How many persons in each State in Australia are living permanently in caravans. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
1 ) Is he able to state in which suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne a new house and land can be built or purchased for under $35,000. 
Can be also state which Federal electoral divisions those suburbs are in. 
What is the distance of the land available in each suburb from the nearest railway station or public transport. 
What distance are those suburbs from the central business district (CBD) of each city. 
What is the cost of the return fare by public transport from each of the same suburbs to the CBD 
What is the average length of time of the public transport journey from each of these suburbs to the CBD. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
What are the legal aspects of concern to Australia regarding nuclear power sources in space, as raised by  Mr F.  P. Nolan, the Australian representative on the Legal Sub Committee of the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, at its meeting in April 1 979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
Have any State Governments requested Commonwealth assistance for the assessment of the conservation status of wetland areas. 
If so, what action has been taken or is proposed to meet these requests. 
Has the CSIRO proposed the establishment of a national wetlands survey; if so, has any progress been made in implementing such a proposal. 
What decisions or recommendations relating to the conservation status of wetland areas, have been formulated at meetings of the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers in the last S years. 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, by the Commonwealth as a consequence of any decisions or recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1979: 
1 ) What is the duty statement for the Commonwealth Pesticides Co-ordinator. 
When was the position created. 
Who is the present incumbent. 
) What is the present salary. 
What are the qualifications of the-present incumbent. 
Who were the present incumbent's previous employers in the 10 years immediately prior to this taking up his present position. 
How many other applicants were there for this position at the time of appointment of the present incumbent. 
8 ) What is the public service grading for this position. 
What standing arrangements exist for liaison between the Coordinator and (a) other Commonwealth and State Departments whose programs overlap in the area of pesticide and herbicide usage and control and (b) the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
How often and at what level does liaison take place. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether on 21 November 1977 he promised the Australian people that he would make 'an Australia which is strong and secure, which cares for those in need'. Is he aware that between December 1975 and March 1979 the price index for private rental housing rose by nearly 18 per cent and that the price index for Commonwealth-State government rental housing rose by nearly 49 per cent in the same period? Is he also aware that in Victoria alone the number of Housing Commission tenancies in arrears rose by over 50 per cent between February 1978 and February 1979 to nearly 14,000, which is 40 per cent of the Housing Commission tenancies in Victoria? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Who will be the Australian Commissioner at the next International Whaling Commission meeting. 
What agenda items does Australia propose to submit to implement its policy of working towards a world wide ban on whaling. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) When will the proposed Commonwealth office accommodation, to be occupied by the Department of Social Security, at 44-48 Auburn Road, Auburn, be completed. 
What stage of construction had this building reached as at 30 May 1979. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 3S99  (Hansard,  10 May 1979, page 2143), where he said that information was not available as to how many persons who have received eviction notices for Government houses in the Australian Capital Territory were unemployed at the time of receiving those notices, do unemployed persons qualify for a rent rebate if they are Government tenants; if so, when will he supply the information requested. 
What are the reasons for the substantial increase in the number of eviction notices issued since January 1 976. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
Can he say whether Mount Isa Mines Ltd and/or Ocean Resources Ltd have formed any consortium arrangements with the Minatone Corporation in preparation for the possible development of the Ben Lomond uranium deposit north-west of Townsville, Qld; if so, what are those arrangements. 
Are the arrangements satisfactory to the Government's foreign investment requirements for uranium mining projects. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) When and by which Department or statutory authority were estimates of nuclear power capacity in Australia of O.5 GW in 1988 and 1.0 GW in 1990 which are contained in an OECD Nuclear Energy Agency report entitled  Nuclear Fuel Cycle Requirements  (February 1978) provided to that Agency. 
On what basis were those estimates formulated. 
Is he able to state the Government's intention regarding the development of nuclear power in Australia. 
What are the most recent estimates of future nuclear power capacity in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Has uranium mining, as distinct from mine and mill construction, already commenced at the Queensland Mines' deposit at Nabarlek in the Northern Territory. 
If not, what is the Queensland Mines 'operating schedule for extraction and treatment of ore. 
Has Queensland Mines decided to complete its mining and treatment of uranium ore at Nabarlek by a date earlier than that outlined in his statement of 7 March 1979. 
Did he state on the ABC radio program  Newsvoice  on Wednesday, 2 May 1979, that Queensland Mines was hoping to sell uranium to South Korea. 
Has there been a re-assessment of Queensland Mines (a) projected output per year and (b) anticipated sales of uranium since 7 March 1979. 
Has the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies established and commenced its on-going program to monitor the social impact of mining developments on the Aboriginal people of the Alligator Rivers Region. 
If so, when will the first reports from the program be made available to the Parliament. 
Have all the legal and administrative requirements, mentioned in his statement of 7 March 1 979 as being necessary conditions with which Queensland Mines must comply, been fulfilled; if so, on what dates were these requirements met. 
What arrangements have been made for transport of the uranium oxide products from Nabarlek. 
What recommendations regarding transport of yellowcake from Nabarlek were made by the various interested Commonwealth Departments in their reviews of the Queensland Mines' draft environmental impact statement. 
1 1 ) If there are changes to mine and mill construction or mining operations at Nabarlek, when will he make a statement detailing those changes and how they differ from his statement of 7 March 1979. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice on 7 June 1 979: 
What formal or informal negotiations between his Department and the Minatome Corporation have taken place regarding the possible development of the Ben Lomond Uranium deposit north-west of Townsville, Queensland. 
I wish to make a few comments and I hope the House will be tolerant. Firstly, the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  said that I appealed to him to save a group of trees that looked like being destroyed by the Canberra bureaucracy. Following that protest I was very pleased to learn that the Minister and the commissioners of the National Capital Development Commission had re-examined the situation. The three California redwoods concerned, sequoia sempervirens, were planted under the instructions of Walter Burley Griffin in about 1921. They are now approximately 50 feet to 60 feet in height. It is true that probably they should not have been planted in the first place as their habitat is the Californian region. They need a deep rich soil and they need to breathe in atmosphere such as that produced by the fogs which come in from the Pacific Ocean. Many redwoods grow in the High Sierras. Sequoia sempervirens, that is, the Californian redwoods, have survived under difficult conditions in Canberra. They are a part of our history; they are a part of our heritage. I am very pleased that they will now be saved for posterity. For better or for worse, they are now a part of Canberra. Therefore I commend both the Minister and the commissioners of the NCDC for yielding to the representations made from this side of the House. 
I agree with the Minister that Canberra, particularly the parliamentary triangle, is a part of Australia that should be considered on a nonpolitical basis. Its planning should be thrashed out without ideological thrust. I was the Minister responsible for the parliamentary triangle from 1972 to 1975. 1 was the Minister responsible for the National Capital Development Commission. Just as the Commission has infiltrated the mind of the present Minister for the Capital Territory, it certainly made an impression on me. However, there can be differences of opinion. I agree with the Minister on one other issue that he has been espousing of late and that is that there should be a wider diversification of the base of Canberra. Industries should be encouraged to come here and we should not have a sectarian attitude and rely too much on the public sector, the Public Service. Canberra needs an interrelationship with other disciplines to try to make its future healthier. In fact, I tried to achieve diversification in the growth of Canberra when I was the Minister. It was more difficult then than it is now. Of course, we know that Canberra's economy now needs a stimulus and this is the time when I think the base of Canberra can be diversified. 
The Minister set out some of the history of Canberra. Robert Menzies earned great credit for initiating the planning of Canberra from 1957. Until Menzies had made up his mind, it was a stop and start project. When the Labor Party is returned to office after the next election, whether it be at the end of 1979 or 1980, we will do the same thing for other growth centres like Albury-Wodonga and Bathurst-Orange. They started under our Administration but have stopped under the present Administration. I had always said prior to 1 972 that what mystified me about the conservative governments was that they did a magnificent job from 1957 onwards with the administration and development of Canberra. They had faith in the planning and development of Canberra. In many cases the development costs were much cheaper than the ad hoc development in Sydney and Melbourne that has been carried out by the private sector. If this can be done in Canberra why is it not done in other places? It was the Labor Administration from 1972 to 1975 that went into the development of areas like Albury-Wodonga and Bathurst-Orange, using the same principles that were used for Canberra. 
It must be recognised that errors of judgment were made about the spread of Canberra. Canberra has an energy problem; it was developed on the basis of use of the motor car. But we must look at urban public transport. We will probably have to use this city for an experiment in upgrading public transport instead of relying on the private motor car. What worries me about this city is that the motor car seems to have taken over. The people who work in the parliamentary triangle have to rely on the private motor car to travel to and from their work. The creation of car parks around the parliamentary triangle is a disgrace. We should preserve the beauty and tranquility of the trees and parks around what are called the Trade Group buildings. Those buildings are architecturally unique and outstanding. They were designed by that very fine Australian architect, Harry Seidler. They are a credit to Canberra. Their construction was one of the early architectural developments after 1958. 
In that year I think it was Lord Holford who said that one of the troubles with Canberra was that there were not sufficient buildings of international architectural standard. The National Library was probably the first breakthrough; the Trade building was another. The High Court and the Art Gallery each will be a further breakthrough. I join with the Minister when he said that something of architectural grandeur would give something special to the city of Canberra. Like the Minister I am proud of the achievements of Liberal governments, back to the time of the Menzies Government in 1957, for what they accomplished for the city of Canberra. 
The tragedy of the present Administration is that it has withdrawn completely from urban and regional development. It is responsible for the tragedy that has occurred in urban development in the capital cities of Sydney and Melbourne. An interrelationship is needed in their development The great thing about the planning of Canberra is that there has been an acceptance of the principles of proper planning and development. Particularly I mention the principles of the American biologist, Barry Commoner. The first of these is that everything is connected to everything else, that things shall be done in a scientific and interrelated way. To ensure that we have progressive and enlightened development of our capital city we have to look at other things. We are moving into an energy age where we have to take account of transport problems. If there is one grave error in Canberra it is the urban public transportation problem which has to be overcome. The example of Canberra achieved something internationally for us in that our expertise has been sought by other nations, particularly by some of the underdeveloped nations. Tanzania is building its capital following the leadership given by the National Capital Development Commission. This is a credit to us. 
In conclusion, I am particularly pleased with the flexibility and intelligence of the present Minister. He does listen to certain criticisms. I am pleased that he was able to convince the people in regard to the proposed destruction of those three beautiful sequoia sempervirens, which together with the sequoia giganteas probably grow into the tallest trees in the world, although they would never grow to their full height of between 360 and 370 feet in this country. I ask honourable members to look at them. They are beautiful specimens. Things that have been created in such a way and of such beauty should not be destroyed as a result of some bureaucratic action. I am pleased also that at least those beautiful cedrus atlantica trees have been saved, trees which were going to be destroyed merely to create an area for a car park. I share with the Minister a joy and warmth for our capital city. Let us start thinking about other places in Australia and achieving some interrelationship in urban planning in cities like Melbourne and Sydney. One never knows; we might even get into Bjelke-Petersen country and do something about Brisbane. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 27 March 1 979: 
What (a) Commonwealth and (b) State procedures exist for granting formal approval for the use and sale of new synthetic chemicals. 
) What provision is made in each of these procedures for assessing (a) environmental and (b) health effects of the use of those chemicals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Can the Minister state which synthetic chemicals, the use or sale of which is currently ( a ) prohibited or ( b ) restricted in (i) the United States of America and (ii) Sweden, are currently in use in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 27 March 1 979: 
1 ) How many synthetic chemicals are presently in use in Australia in (a) industry, (b) agriculture and (c) other commercial uses such as in the processing of food. 
How many new synthetic chemicals have been introduced into commercial use in each of the last 10 years. 
What proportion of synthetic chemicals presently in commercial use in Australia are (a) wholly imported and (b) wholly manufactured in Australia from raw materials. 
What proportion of new synthetic chemicals introduced into commercial use in each of the last 10 years was screened for possible health or environmental effects by (a) the Australian Agricultural Council, (b) the National Health and Medical Research Council and (c) any other Federal Government instrumentality. 
) What proportion was not screened. 
Which synthetic chemicals have been (a) recommended or required to be withdrawn (i) permanently and (ii) temporarily from sale or commercial use by the Federal or any State Government, (b) voluntarily withdrawn from sale or commercial use(i) permanently or (ii) temporarily by industry and (c) subject to (i) mandatory or (ii) recommended restrictions in sale or commercial use by the Federal or any State Government during the last 10 years. 
In each case what were the reasons given for applying or recommending restrictions on or withdrawal from use or sale of these chemicals. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Who is responsible for setting maximum permissible levels of lead in petrol sold in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Is there any monitoring program carried out on a regular basis by any Government department or instrumentality. 
Is the Australian Capital Territory regarded as a country area of New South Wales for these purposes. 
What is the limit which applies to petrol sold in the Australian Capital Territory. 
With respect to vehicle exhaust emissions other than lead, (a) what standards apply and (b) what monitoring programs arc being carried out in the Australian Capital Territory. 
-The Fraser Government has neglected people in need of housing as much as it has exploited the unemployed. After the security of having a job, the next most important determinant of a person's well being is the security of having a decent place in which to live. Next to unemployment, the provision of shelter is the most serious crisis in our community today. The strategy of this Government involves making people insecure, both where they work and where they live. Ordinary people are reacting strongly to this inhumane Government that, without any sign of caring, has presided over the loss of 195 jobs a day since it took power on that tragic day, 1 1 November 1975, and the addition of 75 people a day to the ranks of the unemployed since that time. At the same time, there are 93,000 families on the waiting lists of the public housing authorities and the housing commissions of this country. About 50,000 people are without homes in New South Wales alone. There are 15,000 homeless youth in Victoria alone. There are about 250,000 people living in temporary accommodation and caravan parks. 
This Government is responsible for at least five major housing problems that are causing increasing hardship for low and middle income earners; that is, the two out of three workers who receive below average weekly earnings, those on pensions and welfare payments and the unemployed who receive the miserable pittance that this Government calls an unemployment benefit. The five housing problems are: First, a growing shortage of emergency accommodation in this country; secondly, a continuing decline in building industry employment; thirdly, increasing rent costs; fourthly, declining public housing stock; and fifthly, but not the least important, the restricted access to home ownership, particularly for low and middle income earners. These problems, as the Labour Government recognised in its urban and regional development programs, are inter-related. The housing problems are the result of the Government's cruel economic strategy of transferring funds from the public sector to the private sector- the corporate sector- and of transferring services away from the social needs of the people and directing funds to serve the private profits of the corporate sector of industry. 
First, let us look at the crisis resulting from the shortage of emergency accommodation. The shelter organisation estimates that existing emergency accommodation can house only 45 per cent of the emergency housing inquiries which are coming in at the rate of at least 5,000 a month in Victoria alone. Those who cannot obtain housing are forced to sleep in parks, cars, toilet blocks and alleyways. This is not fiction, it is fact. It is about time that this Government understood the real problems. They can be seen in the western suburbs of Sydney and particularly the western and northern suburbs of Melbourne, especially amongst the unemployed youth. People receiving $36 a week and even those who are 18 years of age and over and who receive $51.45 a week cannot afford to pay private rents. Rent prices in Sydney and Melbourne have increased by 1 5 per cent to 20 per cent over the last year. The cheapest two-bedroom flats available in either city cost around $50 a week. If a house or a flat is shared it may cost a person about $20 a week but that cost still absorbs 55 per cent of the income of the young unemployed person receiving the so-called unemployment benefit. These people cannot even afford bond money. They have to save it and it is extremely hard to do so. At this stage, let us note two things. Firstly, the Government is not paying people, especially the young unemployed, a living wage. Secondly, it is not providing sufficient emergency accommodation to meet these people's housing and shelter requirements. 
I now take up the second of the five critical problems- the loss of jobs in the building industry. Since May 1975, 71,000 people in the building industry have been put out of work. Unemployment is creating inability of people to pay for housing or, as the econocrats call it, a fall in effective demand. This is leading to a downturn in the production of housing. The Government's failure to fund housing to the level necessary to meet the needs for it is causing further unemployment. Unemployment in the building industry is causing long term problems for the industry in the form of reduced capacity. Those who leave the industry go elsewhere for employment if they can find it, leaving the industry short of the training skills necessary to bring about the increase in the provision of housing that is clearly necessary. The problem of falling apprentice intakes is well known. It worsens every day. 
Let us now look at the third problem- the increasing costs of rent and the Government's policy to move towards market rents. Some technocrats seem to be advising very strongly that the way to transfer wealth to get money for public housing is to increase market rents so that people in Housing Commission homes can pay for the bulk public housing expenditure. The market related rents under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement are causing increased hardship, particularly to low and middle income earners. These are the people for whom this Government says it provides public rental housing. Let us look at the facts. Between December 1975 and March 1979 the price index of private rents rose by 1 8 per cent. Yet in the public sector, over the same period, the price index of government rents, particularly those under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, rose by 49 per cent. In Victoria the move to market rents has meant that at least two in five Housing Commission tenants were in arrears in February 1979. Since the new policy was introduced 40 per cent of people living in Housing Commission homes in Victoria are in arrears in their rent payments. 
The Government says that it provides rebates for low income earners. But the rebates come after they have scraped up the money to pay out in the first place. One in three of Victorian Housing Commission tenants received rebates in 1978-79. Rebates make up 15 per cent of the rent charged. The money, therefore, is merely doing the rounds of the bureaucracy. But the tenants suffer increasing insecurity, as the number of tenants in arrears and the number of notices to quit demonstrate. On the private rental market there is even more insecurity. Low income earners still living in Sydney's inner suburbs will soon be thrown out or they will be forced out by increasing prices as those suburbs are occupied by higher income groups. They will be forced out if the landlord decides that he wants to sell out because he wants a higher price and as the increasing demand and reduced number of available dwellings for rent pushes up prices still further. 
There has been a decline in the number of public rental units. In Victoria, for instance, the number has fallen from 40,400 in 1974-75 to 39,900 in 1977-78. What is needed is government intervention in the market place as the Labor Government did between 1972 and 1975. The Labor Government bought the Glebe Estate of 750 homes. It helped the then conservative government in New South Wales acquire homes in Wooloomooloo. It co-operated with the Hamer Government in respect of Emerald Hill. That is the only way to protect people on low incomes living in inner suburbs. If market forces prevail those people wanting to live in inner suburbs, particularly those with wealth, will force out the battlers. 
Let us look at the fourth problem. As a result of this Government's cutback in funds to the States under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement and other government housing programs there has been a reduction in the public housing stock. Funding for public housing is now only one-third of what the Labor Government made available in 1974. In 1974-75 $702m was made available by the Labor Government for public housing. This Government has now reduced the allocation in real money terms to one-third of that amount. Existing housing stock is being sold off. In 1976-77 there were 13,000 public housing commencements under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement alone. Now, State housing Ministers expect that only 6,000 homes will commence in 1978-79. There are 93,000 families on the waiting list yet commencements have been reduced from 13,000 in 1976-77 to 6,000 in the current year. The Government has failed to replenish the public housing stock. There is plenty of room for the rehabilitation of existing housing to be made available to low income earners but this Government prefers to neglect the needy, encourage market forces and profit the rich. Under the Glebe housing project 750 homes were purchased by a federal government. Over 100 of those dwellings are still vacant even during the administration of the present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom).  The Government could do something about rehabilitating those homes. Such a move would be labour intensive and would create employment. At the same time, the Government could rent the houses and increase revenue. The houses which we bought for $ 17.5m are now valued at over $35m. There has been a large increase in real value. Of those houses 100 are still lying vacant. 
The final problem concerns the restricted access to home ownership. The home savings grant scheme applies to houses of a value of less than $40,000. In Sydney in May 1978 the average price of an established house was $47,700. In June 1979 it was $58,900. There are very few homes to be bought today for less than $35,000, the level at which the full entitlement to the home savings grant applies. It requires an income of around $220 a week to secure a $25,000 loan repayable over 25 years at an interest rate of 91/2 per cent, if a person can obtain a loan at that rate of interest. On this basis it would take at least four years for a family with two children and one income earner on average weekly earnings to save the deposit to buy a $35,000 home. The assumption is that the family can save onequarter of its income during that period to bridge the deposit gap. But by the time that amount is saved the price of that house may well have risen from $35,000 to $45,000. Access to home ownership is increasingly becoming something that only dual income families or high income earners can afford. 

 Dr Bromilow of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has estimated that a few years ago nine out of 10 people could afford to buy an average priced house. Today only two in 10 can do so. With increasing unemployment and reduced real spending power the ratio of bad debts of insured loans has increased from one in 1,000 in 1972-73 to one in 78 in 1 978-79. In this climate of insecurity the Government is proposing to sell off the profitable and essential Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. This Government is selling out the needy of this country. The Government is acting in a selfish and greedy way. It stands condemned for its failure to meet the housing needs of not only the needy but also the middle income earners. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
What radio and television stations in Australia received material from the South African Embassy. 
) How often is this material supplied. 
) What form does this material take. 
What is the cost of this material. 
) Who pays these costs. 
Does the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal monitor the use of this material. 
-I join with the leaders of this House in expressing my condolences at the tragic death of this great man. It is indeed a sad event. I will concentrate my remarks on the visit of Lord Louis Mountbatten and Lady Mountbatten at the end of the Second World War to the Australian forces in Singapore and on the Burma-Siam railway. Many of my close mates were there and Lord and Lady Mountbatten 's presence at that time was greatly appreciated by the troops. I am now the only former Japanese prisoner of war in this House but, as all honourable members would agree, Billy Kent Hughes, Charlie Anderson, Winton Turnbull, Reg Swartz and Alex Downer, who also were Japanese prisoners of war, would have wanted to say the same things of Lord Mountbatten. The Mountbattens certainly generated a warm feeling  amoungst  our forces. Lord Mountbatten visited particularly those in the hospitals and I will always remember my mate telling me about the great thrill it was for the men to be visited in hospital by Lord Mountbatten. Lord Mountbatten had great warmth and an enormous charisma. We all know of the contribution he made in diplomatic matters. I speak today simply to say what Lord Mountbatten meant to those men in the forces at that time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
Has a Federal environmental impact statement been called for on the proposed development of the Ben Lomond uranium deposit in the Herveys Range north-west of Townsville, Qld. 
Can the Minister say whether any Queensland State Department or Authority has commissioned any environmental impact statement or similar document on this proposed development. 
If so, can the Minister say whether this document has been made available to the public for comment. 
If it has not been made public, can the Minister say whether the Queensland Government has any intention of making it public. 
-The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  seemed to talk about every country other than Australia. He did not want to deal with the real depth of the social problems that are occurring in this country. In fact, we have both hidden and open unemployment in this country in excess of 800,000 people. We are in a crisis situation. The countries in the Western World want to reduce government expenditure and reduce development in what they call the public sector. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has forecast that by the end of 1980 those Western countries will have increased their unemployment level from 17 million, as it is now, to 19 million. When dealing with the Western countries we are really talking about countries such as the United States of America, France, Great Britain and West Germany- the leading Western economies in the world. By 1980 there will be in the Western world, including Australia, 19 million people unemployed. We are in a crisis situation. 
Of course, the honourable member for Forrest kept talking about the reduction in personal income tax. He did not talk about his own Government and how much it has increased taxation. He did not refer to personal income tax, even though that will increase revenue by something like 1 5 per cent in this year alone. He did not talk about its parity pricing policy on petroleum which will increase the Government's revenue by $2,000m this year. The only negative policies he spoke about were those in regard to the wealthy. The rich are getting richer, and certainly the poor are getting poorer and they will continue to do so under the present Administration. Under the present Administration the wealth has been transferred from the great bulk of the Australian people to the wealthy corporations. That is who really receives most of the profit under this Government. 
I want to concentrate my remarks on the transfer of wealth under the former Labor Administration between 1972 and 1975 when I was the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I shall give some details about the transfer of wealth that occurred under that Government. I shall concentrate on urban and regional affairs and local government. If the time that is available to me permits it I will mention housing. 
For 23 years conservative governments in this country were guilty of neglect of our cities and regions. One of the main reasons for the election of a Labor government in 1972 was this neglect and the impact it had on the daily lives of the 
Australian people, particularly those people living in our major cities and regional areas. The Labor Party made urban and regional affairs a major priority. We put forward constructive proposals for dealing with the problems faced by people in the areas in which they lived. We won the support of the people for those programs, especially from the people living in the western and south-western suburbs of Sydney and the eastern corridor and the western and northern suburbs of Melbourne, which is the area represented by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  They are the areas in Melbourne where the real social impact occurred. 
While in government we acted on our commitment to give priority to improve the living standards of the people in the major cities, growth centres and country towns. We established a strong and innovative Department of Urban and Regional Development and implemented a comprehensive range of positive programs. Few people would argue against the value of Labor's urban and regional programs. Few people would deny that conservative governments before Labor took office were guilty of the neglect which caused the chaos that occurred in our cities and country regions. Few people would deny now that the present Government not only has neglected the essential services in our cities but also has rejected the needs of the Australian people. Few people do not see now that the Fraser Government has quite deliberately abolished the former urban and regional programs which were getting underway and which were making a real impact in our cities and regional areas. But the numbers of people suffering as a result are not few. The majority of the Australian population- the low and lower middle income earners- are the victims of this 
Government's wrong priorities and its lack of concern for the needs of the Australian people. 
The fact is that the problems Labor identified in the 1960s and began to resolve in the early 1970s have been aggravated by the policies of this Government. These problems have grown and newer problems have been added, which are continually aggravating the situation every day. The fact is that the people are experiencing the effects of the deterioration of their living conditions. They feel in their daily lives the consequences of the callous strategy of this Government. My colleagues have referred to the immense hardship suffered by many people as a result of the taxation and wages policies of this Government. Real spending power has been reduced for the majority of the Australian people. Unemployment has grown to an intolerable level.Inflation is increasing. The problems we are facing in the economy are deepening at the hands of this Government. 
I wish to address myself to the growing problems suffered by people in the areas in which they live. I refer to the insecurity experienced by people in terms of housing, the distortion of the major urban areas, and the degradation of the living environment of the Australian people. The Government should be more concerned about that living environment. I want to talk about the cut-backs in the social wage that this Government has made over its four Budgets. I refer also to the reduction of essential community services that affect the quality of life for the Australian people. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table headed: 'Changes in Federal Government Outlays on Housing, Urban and Regional Affairs and the Environment 1975-76 to 1979-80'. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908300_34_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197908300_35_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The table shows that over the last four Budgets outlays on housing have fallen continually from the 1975-76 spending level. When we add up each year the short falls from the 1975-76 level we find that the accumulated cut-backs in relation to housing add up to $ 1,084m at 1979-80 prices. When we look at Federal Government spending on urban and regional affairs and the environment we find a further cumulative short fall of $ 1,565m. The cuts in these areas of the social wage since 1975-76 add up to $2,649m or, might I say, $ 1 83 for every person living in this country. That represents a massive transfer of funds and a massive shift in priorities. The real priority of this Government is in fact to support the corporate sector, particularly those big mining corporations which so many members of the National Country Party tend to defend. They would prefer to do that instead of defending the farmers' rights. Of course, we know that colleagues of the Liberal Party have been linked with the big corporate sector in our major cities. 
It is impossible to cut back living standards to such a degree without causing major disruptions in the Australian society. But that is not the whole picture. There has also been a major restructuring of spending priorities within the remaining programs. Half of the spending on what the Government calls environmental protection is allocated to assisting the uranium industry. It has not protected but destroyed areas such as the Kakadu National Park in the Northern Territory. The sad situation is that money is being spent on areas such as that. But what has happened, for example, to spending on protection for the people from the hazards of toxic chemicals and other forms of industrial pollution in our factories in the suburbs of our major cities? What of our waterways? What are we doing about the sewerage programs, particularly those in Melbourne where we see sewerage systems and septic systems overflowing into the creeks that empty into Port Phillip Bay? 
Many other social problems that we see today were being rectified under Labor Government programs that are now being stifled under this Government. This Government has set aside many important social priorities in favour of transferring funds to the private corporate sector. I would like to stress to those people who may be listening to the broadcast of this debate that when we talk about the transferring of funds from the people to the corporate sector, we should be aware that something like 200,000 companies make out a taxation return each year, fewer than 400 make more than 50 per cent of all company profits. That is the corporate sector I am talking about and that is the sector that this Fraser Government really represents. It represents the wealthy corporations and the wealthy elite of our community. I want people to understand what I mean when I talk about the transfer of wealth from the great bulk of the people to this small sectional group. 
It is the unplanned and unchecked nature of the private commercial and industrial activities that has caused many of the major social problems in our cities. The more the private corporations are permitted to go their own way, the more problems that are created for the majority of the people in both the short and long term. There are too few jobs but a lot of work needs to be done to improve living conditions for the people. A lot of work has to be done to clean up the polluted urban environment, to provide basic cultural and community services in the outer suburbs, to improve and extend public transport services and to ensure security of housing for our people. 
If I have time, I will deal with the housing problem. Next to unemployment, housing and shelter constitute the most serious social problem we have in our community. I outlined this problem during a debate on a matter of public importance last Thursday. If I have time I will relate some other housing problems. It is not enough for the Government merely to use public funds to mop up the mess caused by the private corporate sector. Governments have a social responsibility to intervene in order to control democratically the direction and pattern of economic development. This Government has eroded the base of the public sector and weakened the ability of the elected government to intervene to protect the interests of the Australian people. 
Let us look at the performance of this Government in the area of urban and regional affairs. Total Budget outlays on urban and regional development and the environment fell from 2.1 per cent of total government outlays in 1974-75 to 0.3 per cent in 1978-79. In real terms, since 1975-76 this Government has cut back spending in this area by 83 per cent or, in current prices, from $408m in 1975-76 to $95m this year. That will mean a cut in the social wage for the great bulk of those people living in urban communities. In 1975-76 $ 146m was allocated to improve sewerage and garbage disposal services. In 1978-79 only $4m was allocated; yet there remains a backlog of services in these areas. In addition, we are beginning to see the need to rehabilitate deteriorating services. This Government has undermined the development of selected growth centres. It has absolutely no programs to cope with the changing nature of population distribution across Australia in the context of major restructuring of industry. The Government does not appear at all concerned with the loss of jobs in regional areas. It does not appear concerned about the massive problems that are developing in our major cities and the need to ensure balanced growth. 
It has completely undermined the two selected growth centres of Albury-Wodonga and Bathurst-Orange. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is at the table, represents the Albury area; yet he as a Minister has allowed the growth centre there to be undermined. The Bathurst-Orange growth centre is represented by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie),  a member of the National Country Party. What has he done for the selected growth centre of Bathurst-Orange? Unless something is done for growth centres we will not be able to get any rational development. We will see free market forces really controlling this economy. This is what is happening under this Government. 
In the few minutes I have left, I turn to the question of local government. Let us look at the performance of this Government in relation to local government. There has been a welcome shift towards an expansion of general purpose assistance to local government. This allows local government to consolidate revenue and allocate its spending in a more autonomous way than in the years prior to 1 973, when a Labor Government came to power. Local government bodies clearly appreciate the thrust of these changes, but let us look at the figures. Since 1975-76 the total Federal Government outlays for local government have been reduced in real terms by 33 per cent. Under this Government, local government is receiving only two-thirds of the amount it received under the Labor Government in 1975-76. As a proportion of total personal income tax collections, Federal Government outlays on local government have been reduced from 2.9 per cent in 1975-76 to 1.7 per cent in 1979-80. So that we do not confuse the situation, the Government has stated that it has now made available 1.75 per cent of income tax revenue. But that was last year; I am now talking about the 1.7 per cent estimated revenue for this year. The figure of 2.9 per cent that I gave was for 1975-76. Even excluding the Regional Employment Development scheme for providing jobs to improve services at local government level, the proportion of outlays as a proportion of individual income tax revenue has fallen by 1.9 per cent in 1975-76 to 1.7 per cent in 1979-80. 
Let us consider one other fact that has recently concerned the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The Commission is of the opinion that the distribution of the entitlements between the States should be based upon an equalisation principle. But the Commission expresses concern that the Government has failed to specify the policy basis for applying the equalisation principle. In Western Australia, 80 per cent of the payments to the States are allocated on a per capita basis. The present 1976 Act allows for all moneys to be allocated on this basis. The Grants Commission states: 
There is no assurance that differences in population have any clear relation to differences in taxable capacity, that major categories of local government expenditure (such as roads) are related to population size, or that comparisons of population size allow adequately for differences between the States in the range of functions performed by local government authorities. 
The matter is complex, but very important. If the present arrangements are allowed to continue, those local areas that suffer revenue disabilities and different costs because of the geography and the geology of the area will continue to be disadvantaged. There are inconsistencies in the Commission's specific report on this question in 1979. Clearly urgent consultation is required with local government bodies on these matters. This point is very important: The report of the Grants Commission was presented to the Government on 28 
May 1979, before the Premiers Conference, but has only recently been released, and we can guess why.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table headed 'Effects of 
Adopting Grants Commission Option A for Revenue Sharing Allocations to the States for Local Government'. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908300_37_4.jpg"></graphic>

-1 thank the House. The table shows that four States- Western Australia, Tasmania, New South Wales and Queensland- will be more badly treated than the other States. 
-My case with John Fairfax and Sons Ltd has been settled. An apology was tendered today on the editorial page of the  Sydney Morning Herald. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
What was the rental housing stock in (a) detached houses and (b) flats and home units held within the Australian Capital Territory by each Commonwealth Department and statutory authority as at 30 March 1 979. 
What were the comparable figures for each of the last 8 years. 
How many dwellings in each category referred to in part ( 1 ) were vacant as at 30 March 1979 and in each of the last 8 years. 
Is he able to supply similar figures for the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education. 
What is the average weekly rental figure, by Department and authority, for (a) houses and (b) flats within the A.C.T. as at 30 March 1 979. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for National Development. Has he read the special 1979 report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on finance for local government? Is he aware that the Commission has criticised the Government for its failure to establish clear policy criteria to ensure that the equalisation principle is not denied through a shift towards funding of local government authorities on a per capita basis? Is he aware that if the Commission's suggestion of making payments to the States for local governments on an unweighted per capita basis is adopted, New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and his own State of Tasmania will receive a smaller share of the total payments than they do at present? When will the Government clarify this matter concerning local government finance? 
-The most important thing after the security of having a job is the security of having a home. This Government is responsible for making people insecure both where they work and where they live. On average, there have been almost 200 jobs lost every day since this Government came to office and there have been on average about 100 inquiries by homeless people every day seeking emergency accommodation. This Government has not only failed to introduce policies to provide employment but also has totally neglected the problems faced by the homeless unemployed. Let us look further than the immediate needs for welfare housing which this Government has neglected and see what has happened even with those presently employed on low and middle incomes, and particularly those young couples or young people seeking their first home. The Government in its1979-80 Budget has provided only one-third of the funds for housing that were provided by the Australian Labor Party Government in 1974-75. When one cuts back so savagely on such an essential provision as housing, one must expect very drastic consequences. These are occurring in the community at this time under this Administration. 
The reduced funds mean that fewer new Government dwellings are being built. In 1976-77 there were 13,000 public housing commencements but only 10,900 in 1977-78. In 1978-79 the estimate is down to about 6,000 and with due respect to the present policies of this Government, the Opposition expects that in the coming year that figure probably will be halved again. Yet, even on this Government's conservative estimate, there are over 70,000 families on the waiting lists for public housing. 1 believe the figure is much higher but it has been manipulated by this Government and by other governments. This Government has encouraged the States to sell off public housing. One-fifth of all payments advanced under the Commonwealth State Housing Agreement is required to assist home ownership. We will look in a moment at what is happening in the broader terms of home ownership. But let us understand that the decline in public housing activity is causing a shortage of accommodation that is tending to inflate housing prices on the private market. It is aggravating the crisis in the building industry where over 71 ,000 jobs have been lost since May 1975. The building industry is suffering a reduced capacity as a consequence. Those staying in the home building business are tending to push up their prices in order to survive. 
The price index of materials used in home building has risen by 10.5 per cent over the year to August 1979. These figures were released today. Last year that price rose by only 5.3 per cent for the same period, so one can see the inflationary spurt that is going on under this Government. The Government is causing the inflationary spurt due to its policy. That spurt will increase particularly because of the way in which the Government is using its taxation policy with regard to the petroleum industry. All of those prices are being reflected in the building industry because of tremendous inflationary pressure. This is happening not only in the building industry but also,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you know yourself, in the rural sector. You know how it is affecting the farmers in your electorate. The weighted value per square metre of a private contract-built home increased from $196 in 1976-77 to $209 in 1977-78 and is continuing upwards. It would be very rare today to have an average house built for less than $22,000, not including land. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the median sale prices for houses in the six capital cities. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909184_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

Thank you. Let us look at the situation in Sydney. According to the table I have incorporated, based on the figures provided by the July 1979 survey of housing prices conducted by the Real Estate Institute of Australia, the median price of established houses in Sydney was $62,200. In July 1978 the median price was $47,700. One year later it had risen to $62,200. That is a rise of $14,500 or 30 per cent in one year. I know that I am talking only about Sydney, but in this whole question of the house building sector the fact is that when inflationary pressures commence and speculation occurs it always starts off in a certain centre first. Speculation occurred first in Sydney and pretty soon we started to get indications of it in Melbourne as well. I will give some details about that later. To prove my point, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table showing the changes in the average price of houses and flats in Sydney between June 1978 and June 1979. The table is based on a survey taken by the New South Wales Valuer-General 's Department. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909184_22_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909184_22_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909184_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. From this table we can see that housing prices in Sydney have risen by up to 35 per cent in the last year. As I said earlier, I will give evidence to show how prices are also starting to move in Melbourne particularly and also in Perth. We can also see that a young couple wanting to buy their first home and seeking to qualify for the full home savings grant are virtually restricted to the suburbs of Sydney which are located not less than 30 kilometres from the Sydney General Post Office. Travelling time from those suburbs to work in the city is in the vicinity of one and half to two hours each way. The houses which are available at prices of less than $35,000 are most often not close to public transport. In many cases one has to travel two, three or four miles from the railway station even when living as far out as 30 kilometres from the GPO. They are in areas which lack essential community services, cultural facilities, trees, parks, gardens and every gentle way of living. They are areas where very few jobs are available. Of course, people are being forced to travel in because of the lack of correct urban planning by this Government. At least we tried to alter this pattern when we were in government but under this Government the position has been reversed. 
If a young couple wants to buy a new home it will cost them at least $15,000 for a block of land and around $22,000 for a house. That makes a total of something like $37,000, which puts them outside the maximum assistance which is available under this Government's home savings grant scheme. The young couple would have to have an income of $220 a week to secure a loan of $25,000 repayable over 25 years even at the lowest interest rate of 9.5 per cent, which they would be lucky to get. Generally, the loans are repayable at an interest rate of 10.5 per cent to 1 1 per cent. On this basis it would take a couple at least four years to save the deposit to buy a $35,000 home, by which time the same home would probably cost something like $45,000 because of inflationary pressures and because of the burden of the policies of this Government. Again to prove my point, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table prepared by the Parliamentary Library Research Service. It shows the estimates of the deposit gap for the five capital cities for a person on average weekly earnings seeking to buy an established home at the median price in June 1 979. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909184_23_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. Prices have skyrocketed even since the time of the preparation of this table, which was before the latest figures were released in Sydney. The average cost of a home in Sydney is listed at $58,900, in Melbourne at $47,500 and in Perth at $41,300. We can see the real pressure which is being exerted in the field of housing under this Government. The situation in Sydney is that after paying a 10 per cent deposit to exchange contracts, the buyer would require a loan of something like $53,000. But the borrowing limit whereby only 25 per cent of gross income can be allowed for loan repayments is $26,000. The deposit gap, therefore, is something like $27,000; that is, the buyer has to find or save more money than a bank or a building society will lend him. The building societies will demand that at least 10 per cent of the total purchase price be available as a deposit. The bank will demand 25 per cent. That means at least four years of saving, but with house prices rising by at least 20 per cent a year, the home seeker is waging a losing battle against the inflationary policies of this Government. If the buyer has saved no more than the initial deposit of 10 per cent, he or she will need more than double the average weekly earnings. In reality, a single income family is out of the race to buy a home under the present circumstances. The only way a young couple can get a home today is by having two incomes, if they can get jobs under the present circumstances. 
In reality, the maximum home savings grant of $2,000 is nowhere near adequate for helping people into housing. It does not bridge the deposit gap. By the time a purchaser becomes eligible to receive it, inflation has made it meaningless. By the time it is received- nine months after it is approved- it is too late for the purchase. Not all banks and building societies accept the approval letter from the Commonwealth Government in assessing eligibility for a loan. Some of them see it as extra money for payment of the outrageous legal costs or for buying extra furniture or whatever a couple might seek to have in their home. The home savings grant does not help borrowers in the hardest early years of their loan repayments. They are trying to get their feet on the rungs in the first years. They are the difficult years. I have been trying to get this Government to adopt the policy of helping people in the first three to five years of repaying a loan. People's incomes, as they are being reduced in real terms through the wages and taxation policies of this Government, are just not sufficient to bear the repayments through the early years. This difficulty is worsened by the way lenders respond to high levels of inflation. They offer loans under the conventional credit foncier system and increase nominal rates of interest. Less than one-third of wage earners have incomes large enough to service the average mortgage. 
The response of this Government to the plight of young people seeking to buy a home has been totally inadequate. It has caused the dreams of many to be shattered. It has increased the anxiety and insecurity of people who cannot be sure that they will keep jobs which will allow them to obtain a home. This Government has failed to introduce policies to prevent the rising costs of land and housing. It has preferred for ideological reasons to let market forces have their way. Those market forces have a clear tendency to promote inequality. Access to home ownership is now becoming a privelege for those who have stable and relatively high incomes or at least to those families which have two medium incomes. 
In the area of housing, as in every other area affecting people's living standards, this Government is assisting a massive transfer of wealth away from the needy in favour of the rich. There is a clear need for the Government to intervene to prevent speculation in land and housing which not only brings on inflation but also prevents rational and humane planning of the areas where people live. This Government has reduced the role of public housing which at the very least provides some balance in the market. It has undermined the role of the land commissions which the Labor Government set up and which, at least in New South Wales and South Australia, are having some effect in challenging the spiralling land prices. They are building up land banks so that the land can be sensibly allocated according to need and so that prices can be contained at reasonable levels. It has failed to give any real encouragement to the building industry to service land so that inflation will not continue. 
It is interesting to listen to the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  He has had an opportunity to be in a position of some authority in this country. He has expressed concern in the past about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. He also questions what could occur in the future. I am concerned that this is a piece of legislation which gives enormous authority and power to an organisation. In the past that organisation has not used that authority and power in the interests of Australia. I believe that we should give grave criticism and have great concern about this legislation. 
At the outset the Australian Labor Party has stated that it intends to move an amendment during the second reading debate which is very lengthy and detailed. If that is defeated then it intends to oppose the second reading motion. When this Bill goes into the Committee stage the Opposition intends to move lengthy and detailed amendments to try to alter the Bill. But even if those amendments are accepted, we believe that the legislation is so bad that we intend to oppose it at the third reading stage. That is the position of the Opposition which has been spelt out and determined by the Caucus of the Labor Party. At least we have some opportunity in this House to discuss in a calm and rational way what is one of the most serious pieces of legislation to come before this Parliament and that is a Bill to make a new Act for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It is better that we can spend the time to present a range of viewpoints on this Bill than to be pressured into giving a quick vote and have it steamrolled through on the numbers. I think that is why all honourable members should at least read what the right honourable member for Lowe has said because I know there has been some concern, even on the back benches of the conservative side of this Parliament. So I am pleased that more thoughtful consideration is being given to this legislation. 
-I know that the honourable member interjects because he has not got much grey matter up top but the whole situation - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)The honourable member for Kalgoorlie has not received the call as yet from the Chair. He has raised a point of order. 
-To be co-operative - 
-I do not want to hurt the feelings of the honourable member and so I withdraw any reflections which I made on the honourable member. We know that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  is so concerned about the security of this nation. We know that he is one of those honourable members who wants to get involved in the uranium mining industry. He wants to get involved in the whole question of the nuclear power industry. If fact, even though he recognises that there is an interrelationship between the uranium mines and nuclear warthat is the spread of nuclear weapons- that is of no concern to him at all. He is that type of member, as are so many other honourable members on the other side of this chamber. 
In making our expressions here today, we should, at least, have the freedom in this House to express our concern on behalf of the Australian people who are the people we represent. If we cannot do this then the entire parliamentary system is a sham. That is why I feel it is important to have this in-depth discussion. I do not want to be sidetracked onto other issues. As it is, we have a long way to go before we can say that we have a genuine democratic system in this country. We have a long way to go before we can say that the Parliament is effective and equitable for responding to the demands and the needs of the Australian people. My aim has always been to extend genuine democracy and to struggle against those forces in society that seek to limit the freedom of our people and to collectively determine the decisions that affect their daily lives. My aim is therefore directly political in the sense that in order to achieve democracy we have to change the relationship of power among the people. We have to change the present system that reinforces the power of the minority to impose its decision on the majority. We have to give some considerations to the fact that in this country we do have a system whereby the real power lies outside this Parliament. The real power lies with the corporate sector. It lies with the media as was demonstrated by the recent South Australian election results which were determined by the media. The real power really lies with the bureaucracy. We have to make sure that we transfer that power away from the few back to the many who are the people we should be representing. 
There are some actions that this Parliament can take to extend that democracy. There are other actions that can be taken to push that progressive struggle forward. The ASIO Bill which is before this House represents one of the most dangerous attacks on democracy that we could ever see in Australia. I am concerned about two main issues in relation to this Bill. Firstly, I am concerned about the kind of society that will result from the activities of ASIO operating under the proposed Act. Secondly, I am concerned about what people will think about the future options of this society and their willingness to continue the struggle for freedom. Let us consider what ASIO is empowered to do under the proposed Act. Under this Act, the functions of 
ASIO are to obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence relevant to security and to communicate any such intelligence to the appropriate persons. Security is defined as the protection of the people from espionage, sabotage, subversion, active measures of foreign intervention or terrorism. Subversion is defined as including activities that involve, will involve or lead to or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to the use of force or violence or the unlawful acts- we can imagine what would occur in the situation of an unlawful act in Petersen country- which might cause the destruction of the Government, hinder the activities of the Defence Forces or promote violence or hostility between groups so as to endanger peace, order and good government. 
In order to carry out these functions, ASIO will be empowered to obtain warrants to allow agents with reasonable grounds for believing that premises require investigation for suspected material: First, to search the premises for the purposes of finding records relevant to that matter and, for that purpose, to open any safe, box, drawer, parcel, envelope or other container in which there is reasonable cause to believe any such records may be found; secondly, to inspect or otherwise examine any records found in the premises and to make copies of transcripts or any record so found that appears to be relevant. One could drive a horse and dray through all those broad references. Thirdly, it has the power to remove any record so found. Those definitions and powers are very broad and capable of a wide range of interpretations. This power is one of the regrettable aspects of this Bill. Such definitions are always stretched to the maximum where it is felt necessary by the authorities concerned. One should have no doubt that they will be used in the interest of broadening the whole power of the bureaucracy because of their vagueness and broadness. 
The discretion to use those powers and to make those interpretations is under the control of the Director-General of ASIO. The Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General. I emphasise that the Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General. In other words, the DirectorGeneral can thumb his nose at this Parliament. Under this legislation we would give him power and greater authority outside of this Parliament. We have here a very dangerous situation where an agency with powers that go beyond any existing protections of civil liberties may on suspicion of a possible and ultimate threat to security broadly defined, make forced entry to premises, search and remove documents, bug conversations and intercept mail. The Organisation is not directly answerable to the Minister. This Bill will put the Organisation beyond the Parliament and beyond democratic control. I hope that sinks right into the minds of conservative members on the other side of the chamber. They will give that power to these bureaucrats. It will create the problem that in the name of defending our freedom, ASIO will act to restrict our freedom. There is no way that the people can call on ASIO to account for its actions. 
This measure will worsen the difficulties that are already apparent in ASIO's activities. Enough evidence has been put on the record to date of the corruptness of the power used by ASIO in the past. It has developed its own concept of freedom and security. It has defined whatever does not conform to its idea of what is right and what is wrong. It has recorded as threatening, anything that is in opposition to the establishment. I very much stress that point. These powers are the very forces that in themselves will threaten our security and the collective will of the people to defend their interests. They will act to intimidate some people from expressing their opposition to injustice. Of course, we already have enough injustice growing in our society. They will act to provoke violent divisions among groups in our society rather than peacefully to resolve legitimate conflicts. ASIO will have more power than it has even now to become involved in domestic politics and to take sides in political differences in this country. Its politics are already shaded. This legislation will in fact give it greater power to take that further. We have to recognise the implications of this in the long term, not in the short term. 
As I see it, the more the shape of the Australian economy is determined by the decisions of big corporations that are increasingly locked into a system of foreign control, the more burdens will be placed on the majority of the Australian people. Unemployment, reduced living standards, increased pollution and the restriction of our hard-earned industrial rights will continue to be eroded. The corporate state that acts to protect these private organisations from the legitimate demands of the people will increasingly be pressured to resort to direct coercive methods of control of the people. The regressive industrial legislation introduced by this Government, the equally repressive industrial and civil legislation enacted by the Bjelke-Petersen Government in Queensland, the Court Government in Western Australia, the Hamer Government in Victoria and the Fraser Government can be seen in this context. They are intimidatory threats to the rights of people to defend their interests through assembly and industrial action. They are threats which are backed up by the force of the police and the authority of the state apparatus and, if needed in some cases the military itself. Up till now the corporate state has only rarely had to act in such an intimidatory and violent way. In the past it has relied on gaining the consent of the people through the use of a range of welfare services, the education system, the media, the churches, the arbitration system, the law and the Parliament. But it is apparent that these ways are no longer sufficient. They are not all recognised as having legitimacy. They cannot all be funded to the extent necessary to respond to what the people increasingly demand. 
The more enlightened members of the establishment have seen that it is in their best long term interests to maintain social harmony through the systems of consent. I recommend, as did the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  in the rational remarks he made tonight, whether or not we disagree very strongly on politics, that it is better to get an agreement by consent than to get it by coercion and intimidation which this legislation is all about. They have seen that systems of coercion inevitably create instability and eventually lead to a form of fascism. But it now seems that we have a group within the establishment who do not see this in that liberal way. They want to take a more conservative, oppressive and agressive way. They are more prepared to make force a major weapon to keep the majority of people compliant to their corporate interests. I suggest that in the long term this approach will benefit no one. The people will not remain intimidated. They will answer force with force. It will benefit no one at all in this country. But we should have no doubt that this legislation, which is part of the intimidatory tactics of the conservative forces, is on the head of the Government and not on that of the Opposition. 
The proposed Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act is based on a belief that the Australian people need to be more seriously protected against terrorism, especially those forms of terrorism that are manipulated by foreign forces. The Australian people should be protected against terrorism, but the best form of such defence is to build up a strong social system of security where the people are prepared to defend the common interests. The reality is- this kind of political statement is not understood by most people in the media and certainly not by Government members- that the real foreign threat to the interests of the Australian people comes from the powerful transnational corporations and their associated institutions. It has been said more than once before that there are two ways a country can be conquered. First, a country can be conquered by military means and, secondly, by economic means. We should have no doubt that this country is being conquered by economic means. With it there is also the insecurity of this oppressive legislation to answer the pressure of those external forces and those powerful corporations that are putting greater and greater pressure onto the representatives of the conservative elements of this country. 
This Bill would allow Australia's intelligence organisation to protect those corporate interests from the Australian people. In this regard there is a very interesting report prepared for the Trilateral Commission in 1975- the network of international corporations co-ordinated by the Rockefeller empire and represented in Australia by the Pacific Institute. The report entitled 'The Crisis of Democracy' talks about the problem of the governability of democracies'. It argues that governments are unable to take the tough decisions that the corporations require to be taken because they do not have sufficient control within their societies. 
I ask honourable members to think deeply about this legislation. Indeed, it is very oppressive legislation; it is a very dangerous piece of legislation. I hope that enough government members will make strong criticism of it to push it into the Committee stage where it can be considered at length. Unless we do that I believe our democracy will be eroded even further. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 August 1 979: 
Which Federal and Queensland State Departments have been involved in feasibility studies for a new international airport at Cairns, Queensland. 
Have any sites been proposed to date other than the site occupied by the existing airport: if so, have the alternative sites included Yarrabah Aboriginal Reserve. 
Has a minor re-alignment of the existing airstrip, which would avoid encroachment on Yarrabah Reserve, been proposed, if not, why not. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. What is the nature of the arrangements being negotiated between the Australian Government, the Western Australian Government and the Government of West Germany concerning the dumping of nuclear waste in Western Australia? What stage have these negotiations reached? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1 979: 
Will he supply details of the Local Government Branch functional statement of (a) the previous Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, (b) his Department and (c) the proposed Office of Local Government. 
Will he also supply details of the staffing levels and structure, including the duty statements and classifications of all 2nd and 3rd division officers, for the Local Government Branches of each Department referred to in part ( 1 ). 
When was the proposed staff establishment for the Office of Local Government submitted to the Public Service Board and when was Board approval granted for that submission. 
What is the current work program of the Local Government Branch of his Department including research projects. 
On which interdepartmental committees of the Commonwealth public service is the (a) Local Government Branch of his Department and (b) new Office of Local Government represented. 
What standing arrangements exist for liaison between (a) the Local Government Branch of his Department and (b) the new Office of Local Government, and the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, State local government associations and individual councils. 
Did he or senior officers of his Department issue a direction to the Local Government Branch of his Department that members of that Branch were not to have substantial communication with individual local government councils. 
What powers of examination and review will the Office of Local Government have over the programs of other Commonwealth Departments which either benefit local government or overlap with its activities. 
What arrangements have been made for the Office of Local Government to report its activities publicly. 
What is the publications program of the Office of Local Government. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 11 September 1979: 
1 ) How many persons were on waiting lists for Housing Commission rental dwellings in each State in each month from November 1975 to date. 
What was the average waiting period for rental of a dwelling during each ofthe same months. 
3 ) What proportion of those persons on waiting lists were (a) unemployed and (b) in receipt of social security benefits other than unemployment benefits. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) In addition to the formal requirements of statistical returns from the States, what working parties, procedural studies and evaluation reports were undertaken for the purpose of implementing sub-clause 18(2) of the 1978 Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement in relation to the establishment of a uniform approach to the calculation of rental rebates. 
Will these reports be made available to the Parliament; if not, why not. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that the Government of the People's Republic of China has declared four danger zones in the South China Sea to be operative from 23 October 1979? Has he received advice from his Department, or on his recent visit overseas, about the likelihood of another incursion by China into Vietnam? What action is he prepared to take to help avoid any further conflict in the Indo-China region? 
-This afternoon honourable members from both sides of the House called for assistance to Kampuchea. I think that that is to be commended. Not only should aid be given to Kampuchea, but I believe aid should be given to Vietnam because we have to keep under consideration those people who suffered for so long in that area. At this stage we have to be concerned about people, and not so much about governments. I want to draw attention to the gravity of the situation in East Timor, a country on our own doorstep and whose people fought so bravely and stood by us during the years 1941 to 1945. They were people left alone to defend themselves against the brutal Indonesian invasion in which Australia had complicity. 
According to a variety of informed sourcesnone of them associated with Fretilin- a large section of the population of East Timor is in such a desperate plight that between 20,000 and 40,000 Timorese people will die, even with new relief coming from the recently announced joint International Red Cross-Indonesian Red Cross mission. In the district of Ermera it has been estimated that 300 Timorese are dying each month. In ten or more centres, some 75,000 people are identified as being in desperate straits. Most of these people will die unless immediate assistance is give. Twenty thousand will die even if immediate assistance is given, according to medical officials. The Indonesian church has documented the population change in East Timor since the Indonesian invasion. In 1974, the population was 688,771. At the end of 1978, the population had declined to 329,271. The population has been more than halved; over 350,000 people have died. The Foreign Affairs Research Group of the Parliamentary Library has analysed the continuing reports from East Timor over the past three years. That group states: 
It seems beyond doubt that most of the deaths since December 1975 and the present poor physical condition of the Timorese are the grim consequences of the deliberate Indonesian strategies designed to starve Fretilin and its supporters into surrender. 
I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the report of the Foreign Affairs Research Group of the Parliamentary Library. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

East Timor- Notes on the humanitarian situation 
Although there continues to be a lack of detailed information on the situation in East Timor, a steady flow of reports from diverse sources- Indonesian as well as nonIndonesian offers further evidence that the Timorese people have suffered terribly as a direct or indirect result of Indonesia's intervention, and that many thousands continue to be at risk. Indeed, according to a fell-informed source, large sections of the population are in such a desperate plight, that, in spite of the fact that armed resistance to Indonesian forces no longer presents a serious impediment to relief operations, a further 20-40,000 Timorese will die, even with new relief coming from the recently-announced joint International Red Cross/Indonesian Red Cross mission. Information from a variety of sources (and none of them linked with Fretilin) supports the view that, although the military resistance might well be almost over, the vast majority of the Timorese people, including most of those who were initially not averse to the idea of 'integration', would favour an alternative to Indonesian rule if the options were presented to them. 
In the unfolding of the grim human dramas in Indochina, reports on the situation in East Timor have barely rated a passing interest. While it is clear that the humanitarian consequences of Indonesia's 'integration' of the former Portuguese province might seem comparatively small in absolute terms, in relative terms the dimensions of the Timor tragedy, based on a wide range of experienced, wellinformed and impartial sources, appear difficult to surpass. 
Indeed, one particularly disturbing aspect of the Timor situation is the persistant refusal of those countries that normally champion human rights to examine, let alone accept, the steady flow of evidence that a tragedy of far greater proportions that was at first believed has been endured by the inhabitants of an island only 350 miles from Australia. Thus no single nation has sought to bring any significant pressure to bear on Indonesia, the power largely responsible for what must be one of the most flagrant denials of human rights in the history of modern decolonization. 
It is true that, in a recent statement by  Mr Peacock  announcing a further $200,000 of aid for East Timor, the Government acknowledged its recognition of the 'genuine humanitarian problem which exists in East Timor'. But it seems that the present level of relief, not to speak of the low level of interest in the human rights situation, does not match the magnitude of the problem. The attention the world has given to the Timor problem stands in conspicuous contrast to the interest evoked by the humanitarian situation in Indochina, which deservedly has become a focus of international concern, of all kinds of assistance, and of diplomatic activity by a large number of countries, both Western and Third World. In recent times abuses of human rights in relatively distant Uganda, Eritrea and the Central African Empire have been more extensively reported and responded to in the Australian press than reports at least as credible, that have come out of East Timor. Perhaps the most disturbing dimension of the Timor tragedy is that none of those countries who are in a position to exert some influence on Indonesia, has shown other than a sceptical and passive interest in reports of this disturbing contravention of human rights. 
During the past 12 months press reports about East Timor have been few, but a number of interesting and credible accounts from private sources have been studied in the preparation of this paper. Most informants have sought assurances that their identities not be disclosed, reflecting their fears of possible reprisals involving relatives or the Timorese community in general. In the circumstances, it is not possible in a paper of this kind to document sources other than in a general way. From the continuing reports of maltreatment of the Timorese population by Indonesian authorities and the obstruction of the family reunion programme, the fears expressed by the Timorese appear to be justified. It is clear that a comprehensive and more widely acceptable account of what has happened in East Timor during the past three and a half years cannot be completed without the constituting of an enquiry of some kind with facilities to research and process the information available, as well as means to safeguard the identities of those prepared to supply it. 
Reports from Indonesian sources and foreign visitors 
Of course not all reports about East Timor are critical of Indonesia's role and behaviour in the 'integration' process. Indonesian officials and the Jakarta press consistently report that resistance to integration no longer exists and that the Timorese are now concentrating on the tasks of reconstruction and development. Earlier this year East Timor was visited by a group of provincial governors, at least some of whom were obviously taken aback by Timor's desperate need for development assistance in one form or another, and some donations from provincial budgets were subsequently made. In March this year the annual meeting of military commanders (the Commander's Call) was held at Dili (the first time this meeting has been held outside Java) and the press dutifully reported favourably on conditions in the former Portuguese colony. 
It is evident that the Indonesian authorities have launched a number of development projects, although some of them seem to be more related to military and security needs than to the immediate needs of the people. One area of emphasis is the teaching of Indonesian. According to a recent article in Kompas', there are now about nearly 200 Indonesian teachers in East Timor whose main task is to spread the knowledge of Bahasa Indonesia as quickly as possible. Extensive road repair and construction is also reportedly being carried out, mainly by Zikon (construction engineer) troops. But some of the projects, such as the traffic lights for Dili and consignments of colour television sets from Pertamina, seem designed more to serve the needs of the Indonesians than the basic survival requirements of the Timorese. There is no reason to doubt, as some travellers report, that at least on the surface, life appears to be returning to normal in the main towns. On the other hand, only some 5 per cent of the population is to be found in the main towns of East Timor. Most of the few foreign visitors to Dili seem to have been unduly influenced by the relative calm of the capital which, in some cases, seems to have distorted assessments of the overall situation, perhaps reflecting an ignorance of what Timor was like before the Indonesians invaded the territory and of the true course of events during the past 4 years. It seems that the few visitors to the territory have had only fleeting and controlled contact with the fringe of the Timorese population most of whom are now reportedly located in a number of displaced persons camps, some of which were initially based on the 'strategic hamlets' set up by the Americans in Vietnam. Thus there has been a tendency among the few foreign visitors to Dili to accept the Indonesian explanation that the 'displaced persons' are Timorese who ran into the mountains with Fretilin where they were held against their will, and that they subsequently responded to  President  Suharto's offer of an amnesty and reported to receiving centres for registration and relief. It is often overlooked that it was the harsh treatment of the population by the invading forces, plus opposition to 'integration ', that prompted many of the Timorese to seek refuge in the mountains in the first place. From an analysis of numerous reports from East Timor over the past 3 years it seems beyond doubt that most of the deaths since December 1975, and the present poor physical condition of the Timorese, are the grim consequences of the deliberate Indonesian strategy designed to starve Fretilin and its supporters into surrender. As one of the more perceptive observers put it: 'The Indonesians tried to starve Fretilin into submission, and in the process succeeded in starving tens of thousands of Timorese to death'. 
Reports from non-Indonesian sources 
Nearly all of the many reports from non-Indonesian sources paint a grim picture of the humanitarian situation in the territory. They differ substantially from the reports of such sources as the representative of the New Zealand Red Cross and, for that matter, the occasional comments that come from Australian officials, but, in the writer's opinion, most of the latter observations less accurately and frankly reflect the real situation in East Timor. In fairness to officials, given the present sensitive character of AustralianIndonesian relations, observations critical of Indonesia's performance in the territory would present obvious difficulties. One of the most interesting and intriguing accounts is a report which was compiled by Indonesian Church officials who spent some time in Timor in the early part of this year. We have also received a detailed interview of Father de Rego, a Portuguese priest, who was repatriated to Portugal in July this year, after having spent the past 4 years or so in mountain areas. Information has also come from many Timorese sources, none of whom are members of the Fertilin movement. Unfortunately, for reasons mentioned earlier in this paper, their identities cannot be divulged in a paper of this kind. Some of the sources, on which this account of the situation is based, among them the Indonesian Church officials and the Portuguese priest, are experienced, wellinformed, and politically impartial observers, whose observations are of great value. The Portuguese priest and some other Timorese sources would, I believe, be prepared to make themselves available for further questioning. 
The report from Indonesian Church sources is the first document to contain demographic information on the effect of the fighting on East Timor's population. It notes that the population of 688,771, which was recorded by the Diocese of Dili in 1974 had declined to 329,271 at the end of 1978, based on an assessment completed at that time by the Indonesian Defence and Security Authorities responsible for East Timor. This assessment shows a slight increase in the number of Roman Catholics and Protestants- for Catholics an increase from 220,314 in 1974 to 255,417 at the end of 1978, and for Protestants an increase from 2,550 to 4,354 during the same period. The population count of animists, on the other hand, indicates a drastic decline- from 460, 1 12 in 1974 to 68,839 at the end of 1978. At first glance it is tempting to conclude that an increase in the number of Christians could not be reconciled with such a drastic fall in the total population of the territory. However, this change in the pattern of religious adherence is in fact consistent with reports from Church sources that the horrors of the past three and a half years led to tens of thousands of Timorese turning to the Church for salvation. A similar upsurge in baptisms occurred during the Japanese occupation, and during other upheavals in the past two centuries. Under the Portuguese, the Church constituted a kind of buffer between the colonial administration and the ordinary people, to whom it offered some sanctuary in times of crisis. 
A further explanation of this catastrophic decline in animist population since 1 974 is the fact that this group, who make up the more primitive inhabitants of Timor, most of them residing in small mountain hamlets, suffered heavily from the Indonesian military operations, particularly the bombing raids to which their tinder-dry palapa and bamboo houses were so vulnerable. But the major cause of death was starvation and disease, because this element of East Timor's population, as in the case of adjacent Indonesian communities, suffers from endemic malnutrition. These people form the majority of the victims of Indonesia 's policy of isolating the Timorese (who were without doctors and had few medicines) and starving them into submission. Finally, thousands were to die of starvation and disease in the 'strategic hamlets' where the Indonesian authorities failed to provide adequate food supplies and urgently needed medical treatment. It might well be that the Indonesian military authorities have underestimated the Timorese population in areas where Fretilin remnants are still active, but, in view of the small size of the country, such an oversight could not be expected to exceed 50,000 people. 
The authors of this report are not the only ones to refer to a sharp decline in East Timor's population. A sensitivelyplaced Indonesian official spoke frankly about the Timor affair to U.N. officials in December last year and confided that the military authorities had spoken of a population assessment of 'about 400,000 Timorese'. The Portuguese priest, Father de Rego, has made some interesting comments on this subject. The priest stated that about one-third of the population perished in the Laclubar/Turiscai district in which he spent most of the past three years. 
The Indonesian authorities themselves have made few comments on the loss of life in East Timor. One rather facile comment was made in an interview reported in  The Sydney Morning Herald  on 10 September. In this article Jusuf Wanandi (a member of Indonesia's Centre for Strategic and International Studies) claimed that only between 10 and 15 thousand Timorese had died over the past four years. The stated basis for his reckoning was that a recent Indonesian census had revealed that the Territory's population was 15,000 less than the figure of 650,000 in 1974 according to the Portuguese census of that year (in fact no Portuguese census was taken at that time). The journalists who conducted the interview did not take up Wanandi on his crude arithmetic, but, even if these figures had been correct, the Indonesians had overlooked the fact that the population, following the demographic pattern, would have grown at the rate of about 1.8 per cent, leaving another 50,000 people unaccounted for! 
The report from Church sources recorded some examples of population decline. It noted, for example, that the former mountain tourist centre of Maubisse had recorded a population of 9,607 in 1976, but by 1979 the figure hade declined to 4,586. But perhaps of greater relevance to the present paper are the report's comments on the continuing, in some places accelerating, high death rate. For example, it noted that the head of one district reported that 164 of his people died during 1978, but 120 had died between January and March in 1979. The report concluded that 'an increasing death toll seems to be a general phenomenon all over the villages in East Timor'. 
In reference to the once prosperous coffee district of Ermera, the report states: "in Ermera, the densely populated capital of a coffee producing district where the 'refugees' coming back from the mountains were held, the death toll was so high that the people started to use the expression: 'the more refugees, the more corpses' ". It noted that 300 Timorese were said to die each month at this particular refugee camp. The continuing high death rate in the mountains is a subject of almost every report coming out of Timor. A recent report from an aid source stated that in ten or so centres some 75,000 people were in desperate straits. The aid official observed that 20,000 of the inmates were in a hopeless condition and would die, even if assistance came at once. Of the remainder, most would perish unless assistance was received as a matter of urgency. 
The Indonesian Church Report and reports from other Church officials in East Timor make it clear that the various Indonesian authorities concerned with relief, including the Indonesian Red Cross, have failed to provide relief appropriate to the magnitude of the humanitarian situation in East Timor. In the first place, it is clear that the death toll continues to be extremely high, in spite of the fact that in most areas relief operations are no longer hampered by war conditions or insecurity. The Church Report noted that in spite of the Government subsidy of $US5 million and the availability of supplies in Dili, the 'Indonesian Red Cross is unable to carry out an efficient program. Lack of transportation is the big bottle-neck. Unfortunately supplies stored in the godown of Dili promote manipulation, black market and the like. Medicines are sold in the shops for prices only very few can afford to pay'. The Report mentioned, as an example, the medical centre at a major refugee camp near Maubisse, which was almost without supplies, its main items being '300 pills of chloroquine tablets and 5 metres of band aid'. It was also reported that in March 1979 some 6,000 people in the same area waited for food for some five weeks and then received only five tonnes of corn. The report declared that; providing aid in small quantities and with long delays impresses as an irony. No wonder that people started complaining that the Indonesian authorities want them to die off by hunger and disease'. The same story of maladministration and corruption in the distribution of aid comes from many other sources, among them letters from East Timor and from others who have managed to leave the territory. The former Bishop of Timor, Bishop Ribeiro, who is now in Portugal was in the past often critical of the humanitarian relief arrangements organised by the Indonesian occupying authorities. But efforts to arrange for relief supplies to be channelled through the more efficient Church organizations have met with opposition from the Indonesian military who are apparently anxious that this assistance should be identified as originating from Indonesian rather than Church sources. 
A Report published by the Austraiian Council for Overseas Aid in July this year, also drew attention to the complete inadequacy of the basic relief arrangements for the vast number of displaced persons in East Timor. Some of the material on which the ACFOA Report is based has also been referred to in the preparation of this paper, but almost all reports from non-Indonesian sources contain similar criticisms. Nearly all of these reports reinforce the conclusion that Indonesia 's forced integration of East Timor has been devastating in terms of loss of life and other forms of human suffering, and that the Indonesian authorities, including the Indonesian Red Cross, have not been able to cope with its devastating humanitarian consequences. 
The comments of Father de Rego who left Timor in June this year, provide a unique insight into the situation behind Fretilin lines in the three years after the Indonesian invasion. He said that hunger first became serious towards the end of 1 977, when the Indonesian armed forces intensified their operations against Fretilin. He reported that the Indonesian search and destroy' operations forced the Timorese to flee from one area to another and thus food production behind Fretelin lines virtually came to an end. The Indonesian military authorities then began to force the Timorese into the centres based on the American 'strategic hamlets'. But based on the evidence accumulated over the past 12 months, it is evident that the Indonesian authorities were unable to provide the basic food and medical needs of these hamlets which soon became centres of disease and death. In one or two of the hamlets (which are now known as centres for displaced persons) some attempts were made to improve living conditions, and the few foreign visitors to East Timor appear to have been directed to these centres, hence the favourable comments by some of them on Indonesia's efforts to deal with the starving population of East Timor. Some foreign aid officials have also praised the local authorities for the arrangements they witnessed during their brief visits to the territory, but the visitors appear not to have witnessed the actual distribution of supplies in the areas most desperately in need. 
There have been many reports on other aspects of the treatment of the Timorese population by Indonesian authorities. These included, during the past six months or so, several accounts of executions of surrendered Fretilin soldiers, reportedly by firing squads. According to one report, a party of some 200 soldiers were said to have been executed in the Baucau area. Other sources claim that many of the Fretilin soldiers and other persons have just disappeared. According to a letter in July this year; 'many widows of the recently disappeared walk around in a very disturbed state, as though as skeletons'. There have been some six separate accounts of bizarre executions of captured Fretilin leaders, possibly including Alarico Fernandes, the former Fretilin Minister for Information and Internal Security, who surrendered to the Indonesians some 1 2 months ago. These sources claim that a number of captured Fretilin leaders were taken up in helicopters and then hurled to their deaths during flight. At least one of these reports comes from a member of 744 Battalion, a recently formed unit of Timorese troops, but officered by Indonesians. A letter from Timor five weeks ago reported the execution of the Lobato family, the father being a male nurse and the mother a former member of the Portuguese Red Cross. The children ranged between 12 and 18 years of age. There have been many reports that a large number of Timorese are incarcerated in prisons in various parts of East Timor, contradicting an official Indonesian denial that there are any prisoners at all. According to one source, there are in fact some 40 prisons throughout the territory. Father de Rego spent some time in a prison in Baucau, where he was interrogated, and which he said he shared with hundreds of East Timorese. There have also been several references to the use of a warehouse in Dili and an old walled cemetery for prisoners said to be of a political kind. Reports from Indonesia suggest that the authorities in East Timor have so far refused to allow the International Red Cross officials to examine this particular question. 
In a sense, there is a suppressed refugee problem in East Timor. If the country had shared a common border with a third power Australia would have been drawn into a massive refugee problem on its own doorstep. Tens of thousands of Timorese would leave for Portugal, Australia or any other place if they were able to do so. It is clear that the Indonesian authorities are determined to prevent the kind of exodus that would attract international attention, and would lead to an undermining of the credibility of Jakarta's version of the integration process, not to speak of other aspects of life under Indonesian rule. Thus, the family reunion program involving those Timorese with relatives in Australia is proceeding at a very slow pace. Only one or two full-blooded Timorese are among the 260 who have been permitted to leave the territory. The remainder are mostly Chinese or 'mestico' Chinese, many of whom appear to have bought their way out. Most of the ethnic Timorese whose relatives fled to Australia in August 197S, were UDT officials who have become increasingly frustrated and critical of Indonesia's performance in East Timor. The fact that they know a great deal about the true situation, and are in a position to reveal that integration ' was very far from an act of free choice seems to be the main obstacle to their release. It might well be that the Indonesian authorities will not allow these officials to rejoin their families while there is some risk of a revival of interest in the fate of this unfortunate territory. According to recent reports from Timor those who have sought permission, via the ICRC, to leave the territory have found themselves being discriminated against in terms of food rations and employment. Meanwhile, the hopes of the Timorese women in Australia, some of whom are living in difficult circumstances, that they will ever be reunited with their husbands, are beginning to fade. 
The re-admission of the International Red Cross to East Timor is an encouraging development but the effectiveness of the present arrangement, which involves a joint operation with the Indonesian Red Cross might well be affected by the fact that the ICR component is very small- I understand that there are less than half a dozen ICR officials as against 70 or so representatives from the Indonesian side. There are also indications that the team might not be granted access to areas such as Ermera, where the humanitarian situation has been very grim, and continues to be serious. Another important question is whether the International Red Cross officials will be permitted to probe into the sensitive areas of family reunion, tracing and the question of political prisoners, traditional functions of the organisation. Whatever the dedication of the ICR officials and their Indonesian colleagues there is mounting evidence that the Timor tragedy is of far greater magnitude and seriousness than most observers have hitherto been prepared to concede, and therefore the situationmight well call for much greater effort than the present mission will be in a position to mount. 
This paper represents an attempt to survey and analyse the present situation in East Timor and recent developments, from a humanitarian rather than a political viewpoint. Although it is based on a careful study of the many reports that have come to the writer's attention during the past 12 months, there are obvious difficulties in verifying the facts of the situation in East Timor. Nevertheless, there is an unmistakable pattern of continuity and corroboration in nearly all of the hundreds of accounts that have come out from East Timor in one form or another since the attack on Dili in 
December 197S. Based on this particular study, it is difficult not to conclude that the dimensions of the Timor tragedy are far more serious than even concerned observers of the situation have so far been prepared to concede. It is particularly disturbing that Indonesia's efforts at humanitarian relief seem to have proceeded in marked contrast to the intensity of her military operations. The world 's conscience has been appropriately shocked by the ordeals of the 'Boat People', and by the reports of enormous loss of life and suffering in Kampuchea, yet scant attention has been given to the humanitarian consequences of Indonesia's forced integration of East Timor which seems to be assuming the proportions of genocide. The case of East Timor presents, in relative terms, the most serious case of abuse of human rights, not to mention the right of self-determination, ever to have been inflicted ona people, in the crude guise of integration. 
Australia has had complicity in the tragedy of East Timor, having condoned the brutal Indonesian invasion and having recognised the forceful annexation of East Timor into Indonesia, in spite of the outcries from other countries about the atrocities committed at the hands of the Indonesian generals. Frankly, Australia's role in the war against East Timor has been irresponsible and, in many respects, very cowardly. In terms of long term stability in the Pacific region, the Indonesian aggression is extremely dangerous. The failure of the Australian Government to use its leverage over the Indonesian Government to prevent the forceful takeover of East Timor, its keeping quiet about the continuing atrocities and even recognising the Indonesian annexation have endangered the balance of forces in the region. 
Australia has sold out its long term friendship with the people of East Timor and has acted to prevent those people from achieving selfdetermination and independence. The human tragedy of East Timor at least requires immediate and substantial relief aid to the thousands of starving people. The tragedy of East Timor is no less profound than the tragedy of Indo-China. East Timor, which is so close to our doorstep, stood by us for many years. It stood by our servicemen and protected our servicemen. In fact, during the Second World War over 60,000 East Timorese died both directly and indirectly from the Japanese occupation of that country, but only 35,000 Australians died in all theatres of war. So we know about the suffering and tragedy of and the debt that we owe to the Timorese people. I feel that Australia has deserted them and the tragedy is going on. I believe there should be an outcry made in Australia about the great tragedy in that country. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 August 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that flats in Carawatha Derribong and Gundaroo Streets, Villawood, NSW, are leased by the Army from the New South Wales Housing Commission. 
Is it also a fact that a number of houses are similarly leased in the same area. 
If so, how many (a) flats and (b) houses are leased. 
Have any of these dwellings been vacant for longer than one month within the last 2 years; if so, how many have been vacant and for how long in each case. 
Will he release any vacant dwellings leased by his Department in Sydney's western suburbs for urgently needed crisis accommodation for the civilian population. 
-I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for National Development, by referring to a question that I asked the Minister on 25 September with regard to nuclear wastes and the negotiations going on between the Australian Government, the Western Australian Government and the West German Government about the storing of nuclear waste in Western Australia. In reply, the Minister said: 
The Australian Government's position on this matter is very clear. The Government would not adopt a policy of allowing nuclear waste from overseas to be dumped in this country. 
I ask the Minister: Why? 
-The Bill which is now before the House is an amendment to the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976. The historical position of local government in relationship to the national Government was that moneys were first made available directly under a Labor government. I was the Minister between 1972 and 1975 responsible for local government. I am pleased that, in fact, this Government has continued the tax sharing relationship with local government. But what I want to be very critical about is that the total amount that is given to local government has actually been cut by this Government, particularly in the special purpose grants. I will be incorporating later in  Hansard  tables showing the decrease in actual total revenue that the national Government is giving to local government authorities. If we are to work seriously towards an equitable and efficient system of democratic government in Australia, it is essential that we try to achieve a mutual respect and co-operation amongst the three levels of government. 
I have stressed, both when I was the Minister and now as the Opposition spokesman on this matter that the only way we are going to solve the problem of urban and regional affairs, and particularly matters of local government, is that we have got to get a spirit of co-operation between the Australian, State, local government and people's organisations. We have to break down the barriers of difference between the different levels of government. We have to break down the differences between the public servants carrying out the responsibilities of government at those levels and overcome their isolation. If we work together in a co-ordinated plan a great deal of progress can be made in this field. It is sad that the present Administration has withdrawn both financial and physical support from local government. 
Local government is and should be one of the most active and responsible levels of government in Australia. It should be at that level of government where people participate most immediately in the process of improving the environment in which they live and in exercising some control over the decisions that affect where their families reside, where their children go to school and the grass roots of their environment. Local government is geographically close to the people. It should also be close politically. For many years local government was the Cinderella of the system. Its importance was dismissed and its needs were neglected. Since 1973 there has been a welcome recognition of the significance of local government. Since 1973, when Labor was in power, there has been a gradual shift towards an expansion of general purpose assistance to the States and local government. This is allowing local government to consolidate revenue anc to allocate its spending in a more autonomous way. Local government bodies clearly appreciate the thrust of these changes and most appear willing to accept the responsibility of their belated recognition. 
But this Federal Government has reverted to the role of the rich step-sister, it has been superficial, it has been aloof, and it has been inequitable in its treatment of local government as a whole. It has not increased the total funds of local government; rather it has reduced and restricted them. It has not developed co-operative relations with local government in the sharing of ideas and experimentation with programs; rather it has reduced inter-governmental relationships to the mere flow of money and a few other sectional interests. It has not promoted equity through its financial relations with local government; rather it has allowed the principle of equalisation to collapse and the entrenched inequalities to grow. This Government has failed to establish clear policy criteria for the funding and operation of local government. It has failed to understand the complexities and the subtleties of inter-governmental financial and co-operative arrangements which are needed if we are to get at the real social problems that are being created in this country. This Government has lacked the imagination to see how specific programs at local government levels can work to resolve some of the many problems that people face in their cities and towns, including the problem of unemployment. 
Let us look at the matter of funding. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing total Commonwealth payments to the States for local government from 1975-76 to 1979-80. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910114_55_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910114_55_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910114_55_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910114_55_7.jpg"></graphic>

The table shows that the total payments to the States, excluding payments for roads, in 1979-80 has been reduced by 33  XA  per cent in real terms from the 1975-76 level. These payments in 1975-76 totalled $371m and in 1979-80 total $248m. In 1975-76 payments to the States, including payments for roads, totalled $476m and in 1979-80 totalled $382m. So there is a substantial reduction in both fields. In 1978-79 this Government is making available only two-thirds of the amount that was available to local government under the Labor Government in 1975-76. Total payments, including payments for roads, have been cut by at least 20 per cent over this period. The table also shows that the total payments for local government made up 4.5 per cent of total individual income tax revenue collections in 1975-76 but only 2.7 per cent in 1978-79, and that the percentage in 1979-80 is to be 2.9 per cent. If we exclude payments for roads and the Regional Employment Development Scheme, the payments for local government have fallen from 2.2 per cent of individual income tax revenue collections in 1975-76 to 1.9 per cent in 1979-80. 
General revenue assistance for local government has doubled from $79.9m in 1975-76, or $1 10.8m in today's prices, to $221. 7m in 1979-80. General revenue assistance, as a proportion of the total individual income tax collection, has increased from one per cent in 1975-76 to 1.73 per cent in 1979-80. It appears that there has been a substantial increase, but I stress that, as set out in the table, the specific purpose grants have been substantially cut. Therefore, the real overall total is much smaller. 
There are two points to make about the effects of the shift towards an increased proportion of individual income tax revenue going to general purpose assistance for local government. Firstly, there is some evidence that a subsidisation of local government revenue raising effort is occurring. Individual income tax collections are playing a larger role in financing government activities, whilst property taxes are playing a smaller role. On the basis of equity this trend requires investigation. I stress that local government authorities should look very deeply at that position. Secondly, the decline in specific purpose payments is serving to remove the contact between levels of government. In this regard, the urban renewal report of the former Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development in 1978 stated: 
Although there is some support for block grants, there is surprisingly considerable support for some types of specific purpose grants. Firstly, it is felt that very often a specific grant brings with it a level of interaction with the Commonwealth on associated policy issues so that apart from establishing a project, the grant facilitates the exchange of information and even changes in policy and administration at the local or Commonwealth level. Secondly, specific purpose grants help in superseding well established but inappropriate priorities at the local and State levels. 
I think I have clearly spelled out that that was the situation under the previous Administration, particularly under my Administration, and even when the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  had responsibility for community development. Since that time there has been a further erosion, which is regrettable. No one level of government can solve the existing complex problems alone. There has to be interaction and mutual assistance between the levels of government. Joint involvement of different levels qf government is beneficial to all. If we are to solve the problems of government we have to work in co-operation with one another. At the same time an innovative program specifically funded by the Federal Government can initiate fresh approaches at the State and local government levels. If there is financial and moral support from the Australian Government, there is a greater determination on the part of the State governments and local authorities to get on with the job. The best way for the Federal Government to see how well its policies are being implemented is for it to get more closely involved in projects with other levels of government and obtain feedback from the people. That is the whole basis of a government. We need the strength and support of the people to give effect to the operation of local government. 
The urban renewal report also suggested that it is often easier to get the participation of community organisations when specific program allocations are made. These projects can help pay the necessary costs associated with setting up and maintaining a contact centre, gaining and distributing information and travelling. General purpose assistance to local government should be built up to at least 2 per cent of total income tax collections by the Federal Government. But on top of that there is an important place for specific purpose payments initiated both by local demands and by Federal and State authorities or agencies. There is a need for national and State strategies to tackle widespread problems even though they have regional and local characteristics. Co-ordinated humane planning is required to resolve some of the many problems that we see in our cities, towns and rural communities. 
The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  knows that when I was a Minister I had close co-operation with the Hunter Valley regional authority, which has been starved by the present Administration. We need that cooperation. We need to appreciate the lack of basic social and cultural facilities and community services for youth, the aged and for non-English speaking groups. There are many other problems. There is a need to improve the physical environment where people live by the establishment of parks and gardens, the planting of trees, the improvement of transport services and the rehabilitation of land for recreational purposes. 
Projects such as the West Auburn Botanic Gardens in an industrial area of Sydney, the Central Gardens in Merrylands and the rehabilitation of land along Henry Lawson Drive in the Bankstown Council area are just a few examples of the co-operation that can be built up among Australian, State and local governments. These are only some of the projects in the Western Suburbs of Sydney. But what about other suburbs in other parts of Australia? In every capital city the same argument could apply. Areas have been made much more beautiful and gentle places in which to live. For too long the Western Suburbs of Sydney had been denuded, developed and exploited. We need to make those areas gentler places to live in. These are employment-creating projects and they enhance the environment in suburbs which otherwise would be desolate. This is so much the case in the Western Suburbs of Sydney. It is humanely and economically senseless to spend $ 1,000m this year on welfare payments to unemployed people while there is so much important socially useful work that needs to be done and which could provide gainful and satisfying jobs for the unemployed. 
I will never forget that when I was a Minister a man wrote to me to say that helping to build the gardens in West Auburn was the most rewarding employment he had ever had. I commend to anyone a look at the beautiful garden that has been created in West Auburn by the Auburn Council in co-operation with the Australian and State governments. It is a great credit to the people in the area. The project was undertaken only with the initiative and drive of a Labor government. The same thing will be done again by a Labor government in the future. It is surely more sensible and humane to provide people with decent incomes in return for on-going, useful and creative work. The health of the economy could not possibly be made worse by such a move but it could be made so much better. 
Specific purpose payments also fulfil another important function. They can help to equalise the distribution of funds among local government authorities. At present the population of local government areas varies between 67 and 696,740 people-nearly 700,000. The geographic area varies between 1.04 square kilometres and 330,429 square kilometres. The age and income mix of the populations vary. The revenue raising capacities of local government authorities are unequal. Cost structures vary according to the geography, geology and topography of an area and the range of functions performed by local government bodies varies State by 
State. That is what the equalisation principle is all about. There has to be some way of ensuring equity in the distribution of local government finance, otherwise inequalities will be entrenched. This Government has shirked its responsibility to develop an equitable system of local government finance. The Act allows all Federal payments to the States for local government to be allocated on a per capita basis. In Western Australia 80 per cent of general revenue assistance at present is allocated in this way. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission, in its special 1979 report on local government finance, argued that the per capita formula denied the equalisation principle. The same Commission in the same report then recommended that an unweighted per capita formula be adopted as the basis for financing local government through the States. This self-contradictory Commission criticised this Government for failing to establish clear policy criteria for applying the equalisation principle. This confused Government has now decided to run away from the problem rather than confront it rationally. This Bill before the House puts the onus back on to the Grants Commission. What an amazing merry-go-round of buck passing and confused thinking by this Government. Let us consider the implications. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows the effect of introducing the Grants Commission proposal for unweighted per capita funding. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910114_57_8.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House for that kindness. The table shows that four States- New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania- will get a small share of total payments to the States under the scheme. What will this mean for a sparsely populated local government area in North Western Queensland? What will it mean for the municipality of Marrickville in Sydney? How equitable or efficient will it be? What will it mean for the coordination of functions among local government authorities? All we have is a shotgun load of unanswerable questions. The Government's income tax collections this year will - 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 20 August 1 979: 
What procedures have been adopted by each State for determining market-related rents as required under the 1 978 Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
by leave- It is good to see that the Government acknowledges the need to look seriously at the housing and construction industry. One might ask why the Government has taken so long to initiate this action. The statement delivered by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  clearly identifies the character of this Government. It represents the wealthy and the privileged sectors of our community. It also represents the corporate sector. 
May I illustrate my argument by mentioning the organisations which the Government proposes to have represented on the Housing Advisory Council. Among the representatives will be elected office holders of the Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies and the Australian Bankers' Association. Those two bodies are the major controllers of housing finance. The Housing Industry Association also will be represented. It represents one sector of the building and housing industry business section. A balance is struck from the employers' point of view by also including the Master Builders' Federation of Australia on the Council. So, both the two financial institutions and the two employer sections are to be represented on that housing body. 
The remaining members of the Council will come, first, from the Real Estate Institute of Australia, the body representing those responsible for the majority of sales of real estate throughout Australia, and, secondly- again to achieve the balance between the ruling business elite- the Urban Development Institute of Australia, the land developers, will be represented also. Those organisations are listed as having representatives on the Australian Advisory Council. Not one trade union representative will be a member of that body. 
No mention is made of representation being accorded to organisations which are involved in the social problems associated with housing, such as the Shelter organisation. 
-The Australian Council of Social Service has not been considered for representation, yet it is involved in the social problems related to the ordinary people and to housing. The failure to involve such bodies demonstrates the shallowness of the thinking of this Government which does not understand the real social problems of the people involved. My colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia,  (Dr Everingham)  who is the Opposition spokesman on Aboriginal Affairs has been interjecting to ask: 'What about consumers?'. I ask: Why are not consumer organisations represented on the two bodies? That is the sad situation that we face. I am pleased to see that the  chairman  of the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry will be an ex officio member of the Housing Advisory Council. The Indicative Planning Council has done a fine job although one can be critical of some of its findings. Probably one reason for criticism of its findings is that it does not have the necessary back-up and research staff. I have been informed that the number of staff of the Indicative Planning Council has been cut. I believe that, instead of such a reduction, the staff of such a body should be increased. 
Dealing with the back-up staff to be provided for the Housing Advisory Council, I question what staff- what public servants and others- will be available to carry out the detailed research required to provide the Minister and the Government with the necessary information. In the course of a House of Representatives estimates committee hearing last week, we discussed future housing patterns and how many new dwellings will be needed in Australia each year. A consideration of Australia's housing needs to the middle 1980s, based on the projections contained in the Borrie report on people reaching marriageable age has led to a prediction that some 1 50,000 new housing units will be required each year. The economic and other policies adopted by this Government have led to a cutback in expenditure in many areas and has had an effect on the overall economic cutback. The annual report of the Department of Housing and Construction which was tabled only yesterday reveals that only 119,000 new dwellings have been constructed in each of the last two years and that 125,000 are likely to be built this year. Only a couple of years ago, the Indicative Planning Council estimated that we would need 150,000 new housing units a year. But for certain reasons not specified in any of the government reports the estimate clearly dropped from 150,000 to about 135,000. The Department itself has reviewed its position, and I think that it sees the ultimate need in the long term to be about 130,000 units a year. Eminent urban economists such as John Paterson state that we need at the bottom about 80,000 units and at the top about 120,000 units. I argue that at this stage no clear demographic evidence has been brought forward to show why we still do not need 150,000 housing units a year. 
There may be other reasons, changing life style. Some people are not marrying or are delaying child bearing. We know that because of the activities of this Government and because of the economic situation in the whole of the Western world, there is an economic depression in Australia. Consequently the housing sector is affected by these economic conditions. But those people who normally would want to build a house do not have faith in the future and they are hesitant to go into the greatest commitment in a person's life, that is, to build or buy a home. Not only that, but I will bring forward evidence to show that for the greater part of our population it is not possible for members of a single income family to get their feet on the first rung of the ladder, that is, getting a loan to build or buy their own home. These are the economic conditions prevailing. 
That is why I believe that we should have on a council such as this representatives who have a social conscience, who really understand the social problems within our community. They can give us the reasons why, even though the demographic evidence in the Borrie report was that we need 150,000 units a year, we do not need them now. For instance, we know that in New South Wales alone- and again research has not been done sufficiently; social bodies need to collect this information- there are 50,000 people homeless. They sleep in lavatories at night. They sleep in old cars and wherever they can get shelter to sleep the night through. We know, because the shelter organisations have given us the information, that 1 5,000 youth in Victoria are homeless. We know that at least a quarter of a million people in Australia are living in caravans or in other temporary accommodation. We know that over 70,000 families are on the housing commission lists waiting for homes in this country. We know all those facts. But the situation is that we have to overcome the problems to be able to make housing available and to give these people proper shelter. We know of this Government's priorities in making available money for social problems. For instance, in the 1974-75 income year, the Budget expenditure - 
asked the Minister for Housing and 
Construction, upon notice, on 11 September 1979: 
How did each of the States fulfil the requirements relating to matching fund arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States for housing during 1978-79. 
What level of funds did each of the States raise. 
What were the sources of these funds. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his Department carried out any feasibility studies, either unilaterally of jointly with the New South Wales Government, into the completion of the Sandy HollowMaryvale Railway line, or any part thereof; if so, what are the cost estimates, in current prices, for whole or partial completion of this line. 
Have any feasibility studies provided estimates of new jobs which will be created during (a) construction and (b) operation of the new line. 
Have any commitments been made by the Commonwealth Government to the NSW Government regarding Commonwealth involvement in this project; if so, what are they; if not, why not. 
Has he or his Department had discussions regarding the completion of this railway line with any of the principals of White Industries, the coal mine operator at Ulan; if so, what was the substance of those discussions. 
If it is currently intended to complete only the section of this line between Sandy Hollow and Ulan, will he give consideration to the provision of Commonwealth assistance for the simultaneous completion of that section of the line between Ulan and Gulgong. 
What other railway lines are available which allow rail traffic to bypass the Sydney metropolitan area and what is the current condition of these lines. 
-I say to the accusation made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  in regard to East Timor, that no one in this Parliament or in Australia is without guilt in our relationship with East Timor. The honourable member carries his guilt as I carry my guilt. But it is not a namethrowing situation in regard to the people of East Timor. It is degrading that the. honourable member should make the attack in the way that he did. The only way that we can overcome this problem is to make sure that we do face up to it. If the honourable member looks at the  Hansard  record he will see that only about 10 days ago I raised the issues that he mentioned. I wish to comment about the House of Representatives Estimates committees. I must say that as far as I am concerned I believe this debate on the Estimates is the greatest farce I have witnessed in the 21 years that I have been a member of parliament. 
We have only three hours in which to discuss the proposed expenditure for 12 departments and the Parliament. For instance, there are at least three departments which I would like to discuss and make comments on. I would certainly like to talk about the Department of Administrative Services in respect of Commonwealth properties and how the influence of Commonwealth employees on urban and regional development can be used wisely. I certainly would like to say something about the foreign affairs problems relating to the people in South East Asia. But, of course, time will not permit this. 
I want to concentrate my remarks on the estimates for the Department of Home Affairs if I can speak over the dirge created by Government members who are speaking while I am debating these Estimates. I particularly want to deal with the Australian Heritage Commission which is one of the relics of the Department of Urban and Regional Development and which has not been completely destroyed by this Government. One has to be grateful for the crumbs that fall from the table of this Government. We know that in many respects the Heritage Commission has not been given any real moral support by the Government. I must say that if honourable members looked at the history of the Heritage Commission, at how it came about, and if they looked in depth at the report on the National Estate and read some of the recommendations- it was probably one of the finest reports tabled in this Parliament- they would see that we were able to develop and introduce the legislation for the establishment of the Heritage Commission. I was fortunate in having the privilege to introduce into Parliament the second reading debate on that Bill. When that Bill was passed the Commission came under the joint administration of the then Minister for the Environment and Conservation and me as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
I quickly want to state the major task of the Heritage Commission. The major role of the Commission since its inception has been the compiling of the National Register of the National Estate. Other important roles such as public information, research, investigation and education have been neglected because of lack of funds. One of the sad situations brought about by this Government is the starving of funds for the Australian Heritage Commission. The Commission has also been hamstrung in compiling the Register. The forces which this Government represents- the multinational mining companies and other development-at-any-cost interestshave opposed and frustrated the Heritage Commission's activities at every stage. They have objected to many of the indisputably wonderful areas that have been nominated to the Register. In particular the Queensland National-Liberal Party Government has objected to most of the Queensland proposals, including even half of its own national parks. This Government's support for Australia's heritage is so flimsy that it has left the Commission with a skeleton staff to continue the important work of establishing the Register. If we consult the annual report of the Heritage Commission we will see that there are merely two people to deal with all these proposals, all the objections and all other matters relating to the natural environment for the whole of Australia. There is one person to deal with the built environment and one for Aboriginal sites. I would like to draw to your attention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and to the attention in particular of those honourable members who represent Queensland in this Parliament, the role played by the Queensland Government in regard to the National Estate. What did this year's Heritage Commission report have to say? On page 5 of the report the Commission says: 

 Losses from the National Estate 


 Queensland 

The Belle Vue Hotel, Cnr George and Alice Streets, Brisbane. The Commission advertised its intention to place the Belle Vue Hotel on the Register of the National Estate in March 1977. The Queensland Government lodged an objection to this intention but after a careful review of the matter on national estate grounds the Commission resolved to place the hotel in the Register because it was considered to be an important contribution to the group which included Parliament House, the Queensland Club and the Mansions, and that its significance was increased by historical associations. 
The report goes on to state- and I particularly draw the attention of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to these remarks: 
The hotel was demolished by the Queensland Government during the early hours of Saturday 2 1 April 1979. 
We know that in the dead of night the Queensland Government used strong-arm tactics to get its way. It destroyed the whole concept of this beautiful man-made part of our National Estate. An enormous amount of destruction of the National Estate has been going on throughout the years, particularly those great years of the early 1950s, into the 1960s and the early 1970s. It was only due to the sensitivity of people on this side of the House that in fact something was done. The Labor Government authorised the inquiry under  Mr Justice  Hope which set up a task force which brought down this remarkable report. I commend every member on this side of the House as well as on the Government side to read this report and to see the sensitivity that is needed in dealing with such matters. This report requests that grants be made available by the Australian Government to the States for coastscapes. One has to raise one's voice because of the arrogance of the Chair and because of the arrogance of honourable members opposite. One cannot hear oneself speak and that is why one has to raise one's voice. 
The Chair has been continually talking to people in the time that I have been speaking. 
Thank you for your lecture,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  You have used up most of my time. My time is about to expire. 
-I will not be lectured in the way in which you have just lectured me,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  You know that you have used up my time deliberately and I will not withdraw. 
You can do what you like,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  If you want to take action that is your business. The facts are that I would have withdrawn the term 'arrogance of the Chair', and I do so now, but I do not withdraw my remarks that you were speaking down to me and using up my time because you could see that I had only one minute left. In fact the last two minutes of my time were taken up by the deliberate role of the Minister and yourself, and the record will show it. 
-I do not want to upset the House,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and if it upsets you so terribly, I withdraw. 
I want to express my concern at the farce brought about by the establishment of Estimates committee. It must be understood clearly that Estimates Committe B considered the estimates of 17 departments and we will now have a little over three hours within which to discuss those departments. It is true that at another place we were able to question Ministers of the respective departments whose estimates were before Estimates Committee B and that in some cases we were able, through them, to question the departmental officers but even then the replies we received were very inadequate. I must say that I will certainly be agitating from this side of the Parliament that we should not have a bar of this system. 
For the 2 1 years I have been a member of this Parliament the practice has been for honourable members to be given the opportunity to participate in a debate in this chamber on the Estimates. It has been a debate which has enabled honourable members to consider the Estimates in a democratic way. Each honourable member could rise twice and speak for at least 10 minutes. In other words a Minister may reply to him and he may get an opportunity to reply to the Minister. I am told that this Parliament is to rise on 15 November. The debate on the Estimates has been restricted. We are to have a total debate of about six hours. It is inadequate; it is undemocratic and it is giving greater power to the Executive. During the years that I have been here the rights and privileges of the rank and file members of this Parliament have been eroded bit by bit, and greater power has gone to the Executive. I object to the overall procedure of Estimate committee consideration of the Estimates. 
I was very concerned about the inadequate answers given at Estimates Commitee B by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  and his officers on the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction. I shall concentrate my remarks on those estimates. I am reflecting not on the competence of the officers of that Department but on the priorities of this Government. Information could not be provided on a number of important matters. Clearly, there is a lack of scientific research into the housing needs of the different groups of people within our society. There is a lack of adequate research into housing policy. Hardly any information is available concerning the operation of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement in the various States. No targets have been identified for housing a certain percentage of the people in our society who are in need of housing. 
As the Opposition's spokesman, I have raised the subject of housing in this Parliament on many occasions. I have provided detailed statistics on the growing housing crisis in Australia, especially for low and lower-middle income earners. I have talked about over 70,000 people waiting on the housing commission lists. Over 100,000 people are homeless and sleep at night in public toilets, in cars, or wherever they can get accommodation. Many people sleep in the streets. In a society such as ours that should not be permitted. There are 250,000 people living permanently in caravan parks. I have talked about those people who have been caught up in rising rent prices. Some of them are paying a half of their weekly income on rent. 
I have said that it is almost impossible for a single income family to purchase a home in Sydney or Melbourne. Very few houses are available for less than $35,000 to $40,000 in those two cities and that is where the majority of the Australian people live. The home savings grants scheme is becoming more and more irrelevant as a scheme for helping people to get a foot on the first rung of the home ownership ladder. It is our responsibility to try to help people to get a foot on the first rung of that ladder. Single income families earning up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings- something like $270 to $280 a week- are not in a position to get a loan and repay any commitment because of the spiralling cost of housing. In July 1979, for instance, the median price of an established home in Sydney was $62,200. In Melbourne it was $47,500. It is difficult to acquire a block of land costing less than $ 14,000 in either of those cities. To build an average 10-square house costs about $24,000. One can see that it costs something like $36,000 to $38,000 to build a new house. That is the cheapest amount for which one can build, and most of those houses are so far away from public transport and from the centre of the city that a great deal of the owner's wages every year go on transport costs. 
Housing prices in Sydney and Melbourne have increased by an average of 20 per cent over the last year. In the Sydney suburbs they are increasing at the rate of 10 per cent every three months. 
The price index of materials used in house building rose by 5.2 per cent in the year to September 1978 but by 11.4 per cent in the year to September 1977. One can see that building costs are spiralling. We have to be clear about what is going on, and I want to incorporate in  Hansard  a table that was forwarded to me by the St George Building Society Ltd which, for the second successive year, has had the highest loan approvals among building societies in Australia. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table for the years 1975 to 1979 inclusive setting out the costs of homes, and the occupations of the breadwinners, whether unskilled, skilled, clerical, semiprofessional, professional/executive, and so on. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910254_87_5.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. Let me give some details of the costs in 1 975 and 1979.1 have taken 1975 because that was the last year of the Labor Administration. In 1979 some 6,044 loans were approved by the St George Building Society, amounting to $180m in round figures. In 1975, nine per cent of loans approved were for unskilled people and in 1979 the figure is 6.49 per cent. For skilled workers, in 1 975 the figure was 36.46 per cent and this year it is 31.85 per cent. If one looks at the semi-professional group, in 1975 the figure was 31.39 per cent and this year it is 51.37 per cent. In the concluding minutes left to me, let me deal with levels of income. In 1975, 22.91 per cent of loans were to people earning less than $150 a week. This year the figure is 1.82 per cent- less than two per cent. For incomes of between $151 and $200, the figure was 37 per cent in 1975 and 22 per cent this year. For incomes over $200, the figure in 1975 was 39.45 per cent, but this year it is over 76 per cent. 
The truth is that, under this Government, housing loans are being given to the wealthy and the needy are going without. That has been the policy of this Government across the board. It is looking after the wealthy, the middle to upper middle income people, while those on lower middle and low incomes are in dire straits. There is a real crisis situation, and we have to make housing available for those people. The figures clearly reveal the inequality in our society, particularly in relation to housing. I demand a better deal for the people in this country who need housing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I again rise because I want to express concern about the question of housing. Next to unemployment housing is the most - 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
Which South African Government Departments or other instrumentalities have hosted Australian Government members or officials on their visits to South Africa since November 1975. 
Which Australian Government Departments or other instrumentalities have hosted South African visitors to Australia since November 1975. 
What has been the cost to each Australian Government Department or instrumentality during that period. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1 979: 
Which Government issued passports to the 2 entrants known as Miss Transkei and Miss Bophuthatswana in the Miss Universe contest held in Perth in 1 979. 
Was there any definition of their racial, geographic or representational status on either their passports or other travel documents; if so, what was the definition. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
1 ) Was he and his Department involved in arrangements for the Miss Universe competition held in Perth during 1979. 
If so, did this involvement extend to facilitating the arrival and stay in Australia of the candidates known as Miss Transkei and Miss Bophuthatswana. 
Did he or his Department have any contact with the South African Government or its representatives in Australia in relation to the entry into Australia of Miss Transkei and Miss Bophuthatswana. 
Is he able to say who these two candidates represented during the competition and whether they had been officially endorsed or supported in any way by the South African Government. 
My question, which is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for North Sydney, is directed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister- not in any way to try to bypass the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs but because I think honourable members on both sides of the House are concerned about the situation in East Timor. Is the  Deputy  Prime Minister aware of the report of a  Sydney Morning Herald  correspondent which showed widespread suffering and in some cases starvation among the people of East Timor? Recognising that the Government has made an additional $2m available for aid to East Timor but that there is no guarantee that the aid is being distributed to protect those most in need, I ask: Will the Government seek to arrange for an all-party parliamentary delegation to visit East Timor and report on the situation? 
-I agree with one aspect of the remarks of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  and that is that this is a profound and an important debate. It is a tragedy that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  who has just come back from overseas, is not to join in the debate. I have said before that all Australians carry a certain amount of guilt for the plight of the East Timorese people. The honourable member for Bradfield made an accusation about the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and I were both Cabinet Ministers in the Labor Government. But only a select few Cabinet Ministers knew what was going on in East Timor at that stage. The fact is that we did not know what was going on, but as I have said clearly, all Australians carry some guilt about the East Timorese people. 
But we should not try to shift the blame. After all, the invasion of East Timor by Indonesian Generals was made at a time when this Government was in control. Again, I am not trying to shift all the blame from one side to the other. I am saying clearly that we have to look at this issue with compassion. I am not saying: 'You were the baddies and we were the goodies'. Let us get rid of that rubbish. Let us get right to the fact that there are people in East Timor who are dying of starvation and malnutrition. The people of East Timor suffered greatly for the people of this country. I went as a serviceman to West Timor in December 1941 and after being taken prisoner I spent about nine months there. But the people of West Timor collaborated with the Japanese. The people of East Timor were of the Christian faith and had a colonial background of about 400 years of Christian values, values that we understand. The 300 commando troops that moved into Portuguese East Timor, as it was then known, could never have survived had it not been for the support of the East Timorese. During the Japanese occupation about 50,000 East Timorese died both directly and indirectly in support of the Australian forces at that time. Yet in every theatre of war during the Second World War the loss of Australian servicemen totalled only 35,000. So, considering the debt we owe to the East Timorese, every parliamentarian should be ashamed of the role that Australia has played to date. 
Most Australians were shocked by the recent courageous report by the  Sydney Morning  Herald journalist, Peter Rodgers, on the extent of human suffering in East Timor. They were shocked by the graphic description he gave and by the photographs on the front page of the  Sydney Morning Herald  and, I think, on the front page of the Melbourne  Age.  They brought home the starvation that is going on in East Timor. People were shocked because less than 500 miles from Australian shores thousands of people are starving to death. According to Peter Rodgers' report, over 100,000 people have died since the Indonesian military invaded and occupied East Timor. But Peter Rodgers appears to have underestimated the tragedy. According to Indonesian churches alone, about 200,000 people have died since that time. The sad thing about it is that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  when Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, implied that really most of the losses had occurred during the civil war between the Fretilin and the Democratic Union of Timor. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has pointed out that about 1,500 lives have been lost during that civil war. The bulk of the deaths therefore have been caused directly by the Indonesian invasion. 
I read some of the early reports of the Indonesian invasion. They gave a graphic description of the brutality and the murder that occurred during that invasion. The true and tragic situation, according to numerous reports from sources in East Timor not associated with Fretilin, is that many Timorese fled to the mountains in the face of indiscriminate killing and other forms of mistreatment by Indonesian troops. The people in the mountains are being starved as part of the Indonesian strategy of reducing the Fretilin resistance. What is shocking is that this story is known by the Australian Government. Evidence has been documented, even in the Parliamentary Library.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  just one of those reports, which is the latest report by the Foreign Affairs Group, dated 26 September 1979. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I thank the House. The point I make is that Australian intelligence must have known of the tragedy that has been going on and that the Australian Government has been well aware of what has been occurring. I believe that all of us have to start thinking about why we are sweeping this matter under the carpet. Why are we sweeping it under the carpet? We are doing so because of our so-called relationship with Indonesia. Frankly, it is important that in the long term Australia should have a good relationship with Indonesia, but it should not be at the expense of the tragedy of the East Timorese. It is about time that we demanded that parliamentary delegations be allowed to go into East Timor. It is about time we were allowed to supervise the distribution of our aid and international aid. I know that since 1975 this Government has given about $3.9m in aid. That is good. The Government is starting to build up its aid. Of course we must recognise that $2m of that aid has been made available only since the Peter Rodgers' report in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  This Government has somehow found a conscience because of the upsurge of public opinion on this matter. But we still do not know how that aid has been distributed. The  Speaker  of this House,  Sir Billy  Snedden, was reported in the Indonesian newspaper  Sinar Harapan  on 9 November as proposing that a parliamentary delegation go to East Timor to see how this aid was being distributed. Men and women of good will in both Houses of the Parliament are saying: Let us look at the matter in more detail'. Two senators, one from each side, have just gone to Kampuchea. They have made an impassioned plea for increased aid on behalf ofthe people of Kampuchea. Surely we want to see people from both sides of this Parliament go to East Timor and make sure that the aid is given where it is needed most. I give a warning. Food is important, but the most important need at present is medical aid. Our doctors and nurses need to fly to East Timor immediately; otherwise more East Timorese will die. I have read reports that at least 20,000 of them will die whether they get aid or not. Their condition has gone too far for them to be saved. It has been reported also that about 70,000 people are in the secondary stage and it may be possible to save them if the right medical treatment gets to them. 
So I am asking the members of this Parliament to come together on this matter. I do not want us to approach it on party lines. It has gone too far now. We are now worrying about peoplepeople who have a tie with our country and to whom we really owe a great debt. So let us come together. Let us give support to the words of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in reply to a question by me last week that the Government will look seriously at sending a parliamentary delegation to ensure that the food is being distributed properly. That is what I want to see. Let us not call each other names. Let us come together in support of the starving people in East 
Timor and let us talk about this matter in the long term. If we act with compassion and strength of character the people of Indonesia will understand our actions. That is what it is all about. After all, it is people about whom we as parliamentarians should be concerned. It does not matter whether they be in Kampuchea, whether they be in East Timor or whether they be in any of the other countries to our near north. I am asking all honourable members to give their support to this matter of public importance. 
I enter this debate as a layman. Of the two previous speakers, one is a lawyer and the other a solicitor. I spent a good deal of my life in front of the High Court of Australia at least having to rely on their judgements. One of my cases which commenced in February 1963 was finished in July 1969. 1 faced a jury of twelve, the full Supreme Court, the full High Court, the Privy Council and returned to a jury of twelve. Out of my three cases in which I took legal action, two went to the High Court for the second time. One went to a jury for a third trial. It was only then that the defendant apologised and settled out of court. I know what it is like to sit in front of the judiciary. I have watched the judiciary, whether it be the Supreme Court of New South Wales or the High Court of Australia, treating the law as if it was a piece of elastic, determining the course of the precedents and stretching the law to suit its interpretation which suited their own personal view. Frankly, I have not received justice under the law or from the judiciary. I have received justice from people. I have received justice from a jury. Recently the  Sydney Morning Herald  crumbled after fighting a case against me for 4V4 years. When the case had to go before a jury of 12, it settled within half an hour of being in court, with an apology and substantial damages. 
Court costs alone are astronomical. The costs on this occasion, before I even got into court before the jury of 12, were even greater than the fees that I had to pay my legal people for the whole legal costs occurring between 1963 and 1 969. 1 feel that it is important that more people should enter this High Court debate because we are discussing the High Court which is responsible for justice for the people. Real justice for the people in this country is just not on at present through the courts. The ordinary person cannot afford justice in this country. 
That is the truth and that is a fact. I am talking from personal experience. 
With arrogance the honourable member at the back said: 'Go back to Russia'. I wish that the narrow minded, petty and degrading honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  would understand that I am fighting in my way for justice for people everywhere, no matter where they live. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. Wherever injustice is brought about I will struggle for the individual. I am trying to express some views. What we really have to talk about and to think about is justice in the courts for people in our community. I see the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  sitting on the front bench opposite. I understand the problems and the long struggle that he will have if, in his own heart, he feels that he is innocent. I understand the long struggle one has to go through in the court process and the enormous effort that is required to prove oneself innocent to this country. 
I happen to be a radical politician from the Left. A radical politician from the Left is under threat from the establishment and the status quo the whole time. His views are being distorted all the time and the only place that he has in which to rectify the situation and to protect his name with people is in the courts before a jury of ordinary people. Parliamentarians are considered to be people of some substance and some standing in the community. We can ask for the case to be heard before a jury of 12 but we have to keep in mind that under our system, we will be up for the jury costs. Even though one may call for the case to be heard before a jury of 12 just men, one has to pay these expenses before one is found innocent. The right honourable member for New England will understand that before his case is over. I sympathise with him. I am not gloating over his predicament because I have some understanding of the struggle that he will have to go through before it is all over. 
The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  asked: 'Aren't you in front?' It is true that in every libel action I have taken against the Press barons of this country, who are part of the establishment, a part of the power-elite, I have defeated them on every front. Three times already I have defeated them in major cases. If they try to libel me again they will finish up in court before a jury of 12 and I will fight for justice in my case. I do this because I have faith in people. The honourable member for Hotham told me to go to Russia. For Christ's sake, it is about time the man grew up and really understood what our struggle in this country is all about. 
There are three aspects I would like to raise regarding this High Court of Australia Bill. The first is the number of judges required to fulfil the function of the High Court with competence and without any real pressure on their responsibilities. The second is the autonomy of the High Court and its ability to perform its functions without bias. I stress with real emphasis that the High Court should make its decisions without bias. The third matter is the importance of the internationally recognised architecture of our national capital. This Bill deals with the new structure which is to be the home of the High Court here in Canberra. Chapter III, section 7 1 of the Australian Constitution states: 
The High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice, and so many other justices, not less than two, as the Parliament prescribes. 
The importance of matters and the range of those matters that come before the Court place a heavy burden on the judges of the High Court. In order that the judges are able to give proper and adequate attention to each of the matters coming before the Court, it is necessary that they are not overworked or overburdened. An insufficient number of judges leads to delays. As I pointed out it led to delays in the case I mentioned which was before the Supreme Court of New South Wales. I had to wait 4½ years before my case against a newspaper was brought before the court. That delay was caused by the pressure of the workload of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. However, we are dealing here with the High Court. If there is an appeal from the Supreme Court of New South Wales, or from the courts of any State, the case has to go to the High Court and there are further delays in the hearing of the case. This causes many cases to receive less than the full attention that they require. If the judges of the High Court are placed under too much stress their ability to perform their function and the competence of the court as a whole may be open to question. 
The operations of the High Court are more complex now than they were when the Australian Constitution was drawn up. In recent years this Parliament has legislated to place a fixed retiring age on judges. I think that that is a wise decision on behalf of this Parliament. That decision reflects the change in the public expectation of judges. Judges need to understand and they need to be up to date with the changing attitudes in the community. I believe more and more that judges have to understand the changing attitudes of the community. They can do that by moving out into the community more and they should be encouraged to do that. We should now consider the range of judges that are appointed to service in the courts, their ability to deal with matters that range across a wide diversity of questions raised in our rapidly changing society. 
At present there are seven judges on the High Court. Five judges generally sit on an appeal case. That places a strain on the Court. We should be looking at expanding the number of judges on the High Court. In my view that number should be lifted to at least nine in order for proper consideration to be given to cases. 
Members of the High Court have very little opportunity for overseas leave or overseas travel. It seems to me that in this day and age when academics have sabbatical leave and can have interaction and travel overseas and work with people in foreign lands under similar systems, there is a logical argument that members of the High Court should be entitled to a similar opportunity. I also believe that parliamentarians have been better informed since they have had the opportunity to travel overseas, to have interrelationships with their parliamentary colleagues and to see the way that people live and work in other lands. When we are formulating the justice that we seek we do not have control or rights over aspects that are changing within our society. I mention as an example  Mr Justice  William O. Douglas of the United States Supreme Court. He was appointed by the Roosevelt administration in the 1930s. He was appointed during the 'New Deal' era. The remarkable fact about  Mr Justice  William O. Douglas was that he travelled widely throughout the community both within America and abroad. In 1954, I had the opportunity to listen to a lecture at Scot's Church, Margaret Street, Sydney where he was the Dyason lecturer.  His  lecture was about contemporary South East Asia. It was a very informed address. He talked about people at the grass roots level. Here was a justice of the Supreme Court of the United States talking of the human problems that were going to confront us in South East Asia. He mentioned Vietnam. I think his views were a little astray on that subject but he understood broadly the human problems that were occurring. 
That a man is able to do that demonstrates the breadth of his knowledge and of his perspective. This must be reflected in the judgments which he must make and the momentous decisions that he must make. I believe that we should be encouraging justices of the High Court of Australia to follow a similar example or at least give them that opportunity. They are provided with Commonwealth cars, they live within a restricted area of associates. People, even justices of the High Court are the product of their environment. My view is that judges of the High Court of Australia reflect the narrowness of the areas in which they live and travel, in the breadth of their associations and of their understanding of what is occurring in a changing Australia. We need to encourage them to alter this aspect of their life as a High Court judge. 
I turn to my second proposition. In Part III of the Bill, clause 17 sub-clause (2) provides that the High Court has power: 
to acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal property; 
to accept gifts, devises and bequests made to the Court upon trust and act as trustee of moneys or other property vested in the Court upon trust - 
I sought advice as to the meaning of these powers to be given to the High Court. I was told that we would have to 'rely on the Court acting sensibly' in relation to the acceptance of gifts of money, services, paintings and other objects of value. I was concerned that the impartial character of the High Court could be prejudiced by its ability to receive sums of money or gifts. I was told by one of the Government's legal advisers that we would have to rely on the Court acting sensibly'. 
This legislation places a great deal of temptation before High Court judges. I take the case of a painting given to the High Court and placed in the chambers of one of the judges. There must be some danger that one or more of the High Court judges could be favourably disposed towards such a donor. A substantial gift or donation to the High Court, it must be acknowledged, could prejudice the ability of the Court to act impartially in a matter in which that corporation was involved. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to provide the High Court with a measure of independence from departmental control that reflects the special position accorded the Court by the Australian Constitution. That is what the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  told the House in his second reading speech on behalf of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I question how much independence the Court is accorded from those people with wealth who make substantial gifts to it. May I reply to the remarks of the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  who preceded me in this debate? It seems to me that the overwhelming majority of persons who are appointed to State supreme courts and particularly to the High Court come from a select group and do not really represent a wide cross section of the Australian community. 
That is where the honourable member is wrong. Honourable members should note the arrogance of the lawyer who interjected. A person does not need to be a lawyer to be appointed a judge of the High Court. He may be an ordinary layman. The honourable member's remark points to the arrogance of those associated with the law. To be a High Court justice under the Constitution, one does not need to be a lawyer. That point should be clarified so that the honourable member may understand the situation. As I said earlier, the law is treated as though it is a piece of elastic. The honourable member tried to speak about political appointments, and yet - 
The honourable member should read the Australian Constitution, not the Bill. He talks about political appointments. He forgets that  Sir Garfield  Barwick was a Liberal- a conservative- Attorney-General in this House.  Sir Garfield  Barwick was Minister for Foreign Affairs and then appointed to the High Court. The honourable member would claim that that is all right and that  Sir Garfield  clearly has divorced himself from politics. I mention  Sir John  Spicer, a Minister for the Crown, who was appointed by a Liberal government to a high judicial position. My view is that the law is too selective as demonstrated by the people who have been appointed to the judiciary. I know one cannot determine, and be dogmatic in advance, how an appointee to the bench will act in that capacity. For example,  Mr Justice  Black was an appointment to the Supreme Court of the United States by a conservative administration. He turned out to be one of the greatest justices in the history of the United States Supreme Court. I believe that a great deal of hope exists for any member of our society. I would prefer to see a more open approach to such appointments. I do not like a narrow, selective approach. We should not delude ourselves into believing that justice comes from the legalisms associated with the High Court. The jury system is the major vehicle which will dispense justice in our society. In other words, we will get justice from our people, the ordinary people. At least that is my experience. 
The last point that I make in the few moments remaining to me concerns the criticism made of Canberra in 1958 by Lord Holford. He claimed that, architecturally, Canberra did not have many buildings of international standard. Since that time, attempts have been made to rectify the situation. As a Minister in the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975, 1 was responsible for initiating work on the High Court. The High Court building at the moment looks externally like a factory without a smoke stack. I am not sure whether it meets international architectural standards. I do agree that we need a building of international architectural substance to house our High Court. We should be planning in the long term for a building of significance in its contribution to the beauty of this city and at the same time provide a place in which the ordinary Australian may obtain justice. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I do. The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  implied that to be a High Court judge a person had to be a lawyer. I said that clearly that was wrong and that it was arrogant for a person of the legal profession to say such a thing. A person does not have to be a lawyer to be appointed as a High Court judge. 
-I know that you,  Mr Speaker,  and all other members of the legal profession have a certain arrogance in claiming that to be the situation. The point which I made and which the honourable member for Dundas failed to mention, was that under the Constitution- I did not refer him to the Bill- a man does not have to be a lawyer to be appointed to the High Court. We are controlled by the Constitution.  Mr Speaker,  I wish  you  would tell the honourable member for Dundas to get down off his pedestal and that in the appointment of a High Court judge we are controlled by the Constitution, not by this legislation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
What (a) official and (b) unofficial contacts have there been between Australian Government Members and officials and the South African Bureau of State Security since November 1975. 
Which Australian Government Members and officials have visited South Africa, for what purposes and at whose expense since November 1975. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs will be aware of the reports in the  Sydney Morning Herald  by correspondent Peter Rodgers of widespread starvation among the people of East Timor. Is he aware of the reports from the Indonesian church and medical sources that I had incorporated in  Hansard  yesterday which indicate that at least 20,000 people are likely to die, even if aid comes immediately, and that a further 70,000 are at risk unless food and medical aid is given immediately? Recognising that the Government has given recently $2m in aid, will the Government also take action to send Australian doctors and nurses to work with the International Red Cross in East Timor to try to minimise the number of deaths among the people of East Timor? 
-I spoke in that debate on East Timor yesterday and I want to clarify the position. 
Yes. 
I want to stand by what I said yesterday in reply to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  I said: 
But only a select few Cabinet Ministers knew what was going on in East Timor at that stage. 
I do not want to narrow it down to one person. This involved a few people. I stand by what I said yesterday. I do not want to get down to the sectarian position of blaming one person only. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
How many (a) flats, (b) houses and (c) other dwellings were leased or obtained (i) from State and Territory public housing authorities and (ii) on the private rental market by (A) the Navy, (B) the Army, (C) the Air Force and (O) other defence establishments as at 30 June 1974 and at the end of each financial year up to 30 June 1979. 
How many of these dwellings had been vacant for periods longer than 1 month as at 30 June in each year from 1974. 
3 ) What was the average period of vacancy by ( a) service and (b) State and Territory. 
What was the cost to his Department, by State and by public housing authority, of his Department's leasing program during the last 4 financial years. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-I do. It has been said that I followed the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in the debate on East Timor and referred to the figure he had quoted for lives lost during the civil war there. I am aware of what the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  actually said and my remarks would have correctly represented what he said. I heard him on the Australian Broadcasting Commission, on either  AM  or  PM.  When he implied that many of the people who died in East Timor could have died in the civil war. A report by the International Committee of the Red Cross proves that only 1,500 people died in the civil war between the Fretilin and the Democratic Union of Timor. The remarks made by the Acting Foreign Minister on the ABC program, in my view, clouded the real facts. As Acting Minister, he should have been aware of that report. That is our criticism of his statement on the ABC. 
-The Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill gives us one of the rare opportunities to discuss in this House aspects of housing. We know that the Government normally brings before the House each year legislation to allocate funds from the Commonwealth to the States for public housing. Now, under the Government's new formula, that matter is not brought before the House for debate. Because these matters are inter-related we might to able to discuss in the debate on this Bill, which seeks to amend the Home Savings Grants Scheme, the inadequacies of housing in this country. I wish to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the bill be withdrawn and re-drafted because of the failure of the Homes Savings Grant Scheme to assist new home purchasers bridge the deposit gap in the context of rising housing prices, especially in the metropolitan areas of Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Darwin where the Scheme is virtually unworkable '. 
The Home Savings Grants Scheme was introduced as a means of helping young people get their foot on the first rung of the ladder of home ownership. It was first introduced by  Sir Robert  Menzies prior to the 1963 elections. Of course, conservative governments have updated it from time to time. The aim of the Scheme is not opposed in principle by the Labor Party, and I stress that point. We are concerned, however, that the Scheme is not achieving its aim. The Bill before the House which seeks to place a new ceiling on the value of homes that qualify for a grant fails to acknowledge the real problems facing home buyers, especially those in the capital cities of Sydney, Melbourne, Darwin and Perth, who wish to apply for the Home Savings Grant. But I do not limit my comments just to those cities. I will give details of figures from the Real Estate Institute of Australia of median priced housing. My figures will reveal a great disparity in the cost for housing from city to city. The two cities with the worst crisis, of course, are Sydney and Melbourne. We know that the great majority of Australians reside in those two cities. 
The Home Savings Grants Scheme as it currently operates, and as it will operate under the provisions of this Bill, does help some people. But more and more the price of housing and land in the capital cities, were the majority of people live is rising to such a high level and at such a fast rate that the Scheme is becoming almost irrelevant.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I want to aim my remarks at the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie).  You know that a person can not acquire a house in your electorate for $35,000, thus making himself ineligible to receive a grant under this Scheme. You know that there are real problems facing anybody wishing to acquire a home in your electorate for that price. Let us look at the situation in other electorates in the Sydney metropolitan area. 
The honourable member for Hughes will give more details about the crisis situation, of housing costs in the electorate of Cook and about how this scheme is completely irrelevant to the constituents of someone like the honourable member for Cook who will be struggling to survive at the next election. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  who is going to follow me in this debate will find grave difficulty acquiring a house for $35,000 or even up to $40,000 in his electorate when the Home 
Savings Grants Scheme cancels out. He will contend they are available at Riverstone for this price. Although he represents a metropolitan area of Sydney he will have to go out as far as Riverstone, 50 miles from the central business district or the General Post Office to obtain a block of land and a dwelling for that price. We should also look at certain other electorates such as the electorate of Barton and the electorate of St George. Let us ask the honourable members who represent these two electorates- they too will have trouble surviving the next electionwhether constituents, particularly the young seeking their first home, living in those electorates could acquire a block of land and a house or even an existing dwelling for $35,000 so that they could obtain the full homes savings grant. I question whether such a person could get even a partial loan for a home worth less than $40,000. 
Let us ask the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  whether it is possible in the suburbs in his electorate such as Bondi Beach, Bondi, Bronte, Clovelly, Coogee, Randwick or Tamarama to buy a block of land and build a house for $35,000 in order to obtain the full homes savings grant, or to build a house for $40,000. 1 ask the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  whether anyone could buy a block of land in Strathfield, Burwood or anywhere within his electorate and build a house, or buy an existing dwelling for $35,000 to get the full home savings grant or $40,000 for a partial grant. We know that it is impossible. I refer to the marginal electorates whose members are under pressure, such as the electorate of La Trobe in Melbourne. Can homes for $35,000 or $40,000 be acquired in that electorate? Can they be acquired in the electorates of Isaacs or Henty? Certainly Joan Child will be making sure that people of the electorate of Henty know about the inadequacy of the Government's housing policy. Can such homes be acquired under this Act in the electorates of Hotham or Deakin? I could go on and on. We know that this Home Savings Grants Scheme is irrelevant. It will not really solve the housing problems nor the housing needs of the majority of the people of this country. 
As the Opposition spokesman for housing and urban affairs, I make the Labor Party's position clear to those members on the Government side who will ask what the Labor Party proposes to do to improve access to home ownership. We will not abolish the Home Savings Grants Scheme after we gain victory in the 1980 elections. The scheme will not be abolished by us. Possibly, the majority of people will contract out of it. We intend to put forward an alternative home ownership assistance program, a superior program, to assist low and middle income earners to buy their own homes. Details of that program will be announced at the appropriate time by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The Home Savings Grants Scheme will remain an option for those who are presently saving under it. If they can benefit from it and if they want to proceed with it, that is their option. We will permit them to do so. But they will be able to transfer to our new home ownership assistance program which will be much superior. I believe that most people will opt out of the existing scheme and shift to Labor's new program. The Home Savings Grants Scheme is just not good enough to meet the problems confronting the people who want to acquire their first home today, particularly young people. 
I will demonstrate the inadequacies of the Home Savings Grants Scheme in a moment. Firstly, I refer to Labor's program of helping young people to get their first foot on the ladder in the context of a broad response to the problems facing people on low incomes in terms of basic housing security- the problems that are getting worse every day. They are problems this Government turns its back on. This Government does not want to even try to control the crisis that is occurring. The housing problem in this country, next to unemployment, is the most serious social problem in this nation. For thousands of people the problem has now reached crisis proportions. Thirty thousand homeless people live in both Sydney and Melbourne. Many thousands of people in other cities and country towns cannot find homes. Two hundred and fifty thousand people are permanently living in caravan parks. Seventy-five thousand families are on the long waiting list for public housing. Thousands of tenants of private rental housing face eviction because they cannot afford to pay their rents or because the houses have been sold from underneath them. For all these thousands of people whose housing security is threatened there is an urgent need for an expansion of the provision of public rental housing in this country to provide secure accommodation. For those people that will be a major priority in Labor's public housing policy. 
Some of the need can be met by the construction of new government dwellings in selected areas, the acquisition and rehabilitation of existing private rental stocks for the use of public housing or from the expansion of emergency accommodation services which at present are able to cater for less than half of those who are making requests. To tackle the problems facing people in need of housing we need to develop programs on several fronts at once. They have to be solved on a broad front if they are to be solved at all. There is no single program that can solve the many housing problems that this Government has allowed to develop over the years. We need a range of constructive programs consistent with the integrated approach to the planning of our cities and country centres. 
A home ownership assistance program is one of the ways for a government to assist people in their housing needs but it is not the only way. The Federal Government has relied too heavily on the home savings grant scheme as the only response. Of course, as we know, that response has been inadequate. The Government has neglected the need for emergency accommodation. It has reduced the provision of public housing. The housing problems that are now so obvious are a result of the narrowness of the Government's housing policy and the meanness of its spending priorities. One of the reasons we do not discuss each year as a national priority the transfer of funds from federal revenue to the States for public housing, as has been done since 1 947, is that there has been such a substantial cut in those funds. In 1974-75 the Labor Government made 3.9 per cent of all government expenditure available to the States for public housing. That amount has been cut to 1.1 per cent of government expenditure this year. That is why the Government does not want to debate the matter. It wants to sweep the matter under the carpet and keep it hidden because it is fearful of being exposed. 
Let me examine building programs. In 1975-76, the first half year of this Government's administration, loans averaging $22,400 per dwelling were approved by banks and building societies in Australia for 134,000 new dwellings. However, between 1975-76 and 1977-78 the number of new private dwellings fell by 12 per cent while the average value of loans approved rose by 30 per cent. In 1 978-79 loans amounting to $3.5 billion were approved for 118,000 new dwellings in Australia. The average loan was $29,000 per dwelling. The Government tries to make out that the rise in housing loan approvals from a trough of 1 1 1,000 last year to 1 18,000 this year is a great upward surge. But in 1 975-76, the first year that it came into power, 134,000 new dwellings were approved. The figure for last year is up to 11 8,000. If the Government wants the construction of new dwellings to reach its former level then it is a long way behind. That demonstrates the phoneyness of the claims of this Government. It is true that in the last  12  months there has been an upturn in the construction of new dwellings but we have to remember three things. Firstly, new dwelling commencements last year reached their lowest level for  13  years. The decline in building activities has had a large impact on the capacity of the building industry, as the Indicative Planning Council has noted in its last two reports. Between August  1974  and August  1979,  over  60,000  jobs were lost in the building and construction industry. This was caused in large part by a reduction in this Government's spending on capital works, health, education and social services. I have already given figures on reduced government spending in the public housing sector. 
The industry has also suffered as a result of increasing spending on renovations and repairs to existing housing stock, which in turn has created an upward pressure on the price of established housing. This has its positive and negative aspects on the building industry. A second related point to remember is that the price of housing has risen considerably over the last four years. The apparent upturn in housing construction is now occurring at a price level that is beyond the reach of most single income families. I want to stress over and over again that the real problem facing the single income families, earning up to  135  per cent of average weekly earnings, whether they live in Sydney or Melbourne, is that they are in a crisis situation when it comes to acquiring a home. That is a problem that we will have to overcome. This Government is doing nothing at all to overcome that problem. 
I wish to reply briefly to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom).  He asked a question of the Opposition: Does the Australian Labor Party support a value limit? In other words, do we stand for a means test on this question of housing? We do not. We have looked at the costs of housing and land, and the level varies greatly from State to State. We recognise that it is necessary to have some type of means test, but we do not accept that the value - 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 11 September 1979: 
What are the attitudes of each of the State housing authorities with regard to the selling of rental stock and what are their practices with regard to sub-section 20 (2) of the 1978 Commonwealth/State Housing Agreement. 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware that the national accounts published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that in 1974-75 private consumption expenditure on dwelling rent made up 13.7 per cent of total final private consumption expenditure, but that in 1978-79 the figure rose to 17.3 per cent? How does the Minister explain the dramatic increase in the proportion of consumer spending absorbed by rents during this period? 
I move: 
That the honourable member's time be extended. 
There was an interruption of about 10 minutes to the speaking time of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  - 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  whether the Bill is going to be pushed through this week. It is a Bill of some significance. Could it be stood over until the next session? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
1 ) Will the Minister establish an independent inquiry into postgraduate research in Australian universities as requested by the Council of Australian Post-Graduate Associations; if so, what will be the terms of reference for the inquiry and who will be appointed to conduct it. 
Will the Minister consider the appointment of a person nominated by the Council of Australian Post-Graduate Associations to the inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 6 November 1979: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement on page 18 of the 1978-79 Annual Report of the Australian Heritage Commission concerning grants to voluntary conservation bodies; if so, what has been the level of funding for this program in each year since its inception. 
Which organisations have received funds and what sum has each received in each year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 6 November 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the grants to voluntary conservation organisations which are now administered by the Department of Science and the Environment were recently reviewed by the Australian Heritage Commission. 
Did these organisations in response to a Government request supply a considerable body of significant information for this review. 
Were these organisations notified of the findings and recommendations of the review; if not, will the Government consider making these findings and recommendations public. 
If the Government will not make them public, why not. 
Is it a fact that the Department intends to hold another review of these grants; if so, what are the reasons for holding a second review within 18 months of the review by the Australian Heritage Commission. 
Have voluntary conservation organisations been requested to provide information again to the Government. 
-I was not in the House, but I understand that the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  said that I stole the document that had been tabled. 
-Well, what did you say? 
-What did you say? 
I was not in the House at the time but I was informed when I returned to the House, particularly by the boys, the members, on the Government side, that I had stolen the document that had been tabled. What happened was that, when the document was tabled, I went to the  Clerk  of the House and asked whether I could have the document. I took that document, with the knowledge of that officer, and handed it directly to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)-  he was the next  speaker  on the Opposition side- to examine the document. That document never left that table. That was the situation. I later left the chamber. At no time did I remove the document from the chamber.  Mr Speaker,  what concerns me - 
What concerns me is that a man who is supposed to represent the law - 
Makes an accusation without knowing what are the facts. 
I realise that the time is late. I thought you would adjourn the House at six o'clock,  Mr Speaker.  I do not want to delay the House. First of all, I wanted to make a speech today during the Grievance Debate or at some other time but for some reason or another it always seems to be very difficult for back bench members to make speeches. That is a protest that should be expressed a little more often. The time is late, so I am not going to make a speech. I want to thank those officers and staff of the Parliament who have been so kind to me. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and I have been members of this House for 21 years today. It was on 22 November 1958 that we were first elected to Parliament. During that time my service, at least- I am not speaking for Charlie- has been controversial from time to time both inside and outside the House. However, I have received nothing but courtesy from the officers and staff of this Parliament. 
I thank also the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  for mentioning particularly those people in Indo-China and the people of East Timor. We in Australia are in a more fortunate country than those people. We are certainly not going through the trials and tribulations that those people are suffering in this time of goodwill to all men. This Parliament has to look at the farreaching policies of the 1980s to overcome what we call the curse of unemployment which exists in this country and which affects so many unfortunate people in our community. 
Today I wanted to talk about the report of the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council which clearly stated that there is no solution to the problems of nuclear waste. However, I will put my comments on record in a Press statement. I thank the House for its patience. I again thank the officers and staff of the Parliament for being so kind to me during the last 2 1 years. 

 Mr VINER (Stirling-Leader of the House)With your indulgence,  Mr Speaker:  I omitted to thank one person and I might do that now. I want to thank my friend and colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the House, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  I thank him warmly for the assistance he has given me since I have been Leader of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 18 October 1979: 
How many new apprentices has his Department recruited in each year since 1974-75 and how many have obtained employment with the Department. 
What proportion of (a) construction and (b) repair and maintenance work was carried out by (i) contract and (ii) his Department's day labour force in each of the last 3 years and in each case what expenditure was incurred. 
What sums (a) were spent in 1 978-79 and (b) are appropriated in 1979-80 by the Commonwealth for research and development in the use of energy in buildings. 
What are the details of the purposes for which these sums were or are to be expended. 
How many (a) engineers, (b) architects, (c) quantity surveyors, (d) trainees and cadets and (e) draftsmen and technical officers were employed in his Department as at 30 June in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
 Is he able to provide the following information in respect df the nuclear reactor accident at Three Mile Island, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, USA: (a) was the accident caused by a failure in the main reactor cooling system; if so, was a cloud of radioactive steam released because the reactor vessel was Unable to contain the pressure in the vessel; (b) were further releases of pressure necessary for the same reasons; (c) was radioactively-contaminated water released to the surrounding area; (d) was the level of radioactivity within the reactor vessel extremely high; if so, what were the levels, in both roentgens per hour and millirems per hour; (e) were the fuel elements damaged by the failure of the cooling system and the subsequent accident; (0 was contaminated material stored in auxiliary buildings; (g) how many dairy farms are situated in the area within a radius of 25 kilometres of the reactor; (h) did Charles Callinan of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission admit publicly that there had been serious contamination on the reactor site; (i) was the police force of the State of Pennsylvania asked to provide a helicopter to monitor events at the reactor immediately following the accident; if so, were they informed that radioactive steam had been released into the atmosphere; (j) what precautions had to be taken to safeguard workers at the plant; (k) what was the extent of contamination of workers immediately following the accident; and (1) was the State of Pennsylvania entirely dependent on the utility company operating the reactor for information about the accident. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
In respect of each public housing authority in each State and Territory, and for each month from June 1976 to June 1979, (a) how many tenants were accommodated, (b) how many tenants were in arrears in their rent payments, (c) what was the (i) total and (ii) average amount of rent outstanding, (d) what was the average number of weeks in arrears, (e) how many notices to quit were given to tenants and  (0  how many tenants were evicted. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to Question No. 3938  (Hansard,  7 June 1979, page 3159), how many children in (a) primary and (b) secondary school age groups were resident in private mobile dwellings or caravans in each State or Territory at the time of the 1976 Census. 
What steps is he taking to ensure that comprehensive and recent data will become readily available on the number of persons living permanently in caravans in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
How many years' disposable income was required by a single income family, with a dependent spouse and 2 children, receiving average annual earnings to purchase (a) a medium priced block of land, ( b ) a newly erected 2 or 3 bedroom house or flat and (c) a medium priced established 2 or 3 bedroom house or flat in each capital city during each of the years from 1 970-7 1 to 1 978-79 and for the period1 July 1979 to 1 8 October 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
What is the total cost of the Government's intervention through the United States Court of Appeals in the case brought by Westinghouse against Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited, Pancontinental Mining Limited, Mary Kathleen Uranium Limited, Queensland Mines Limited and other uranium rnining companies. 
Who has been briefed to act as solicitors for the Government in the case. 
Who will represent the Government in Court. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
Has the Government investigated the adequacy of procedures relating to the use of radioactive devices such as the one which reportedly went astray from Western Mining Corporation's Kambalda Mine. 
Since the Kambalda incident has the Government held  any discussions  with the States relating to the procedures governing the use of radioactive devices; if so, what action is proposed. 
Does the Minister propose to establish, in conjunction with the States, national codes of practice for the regulation of radioactive devices in industry. 
What legislation currently governs the use of these devices in (a) the Australian Capital Territory and (b) the Northern Territory. 
What are the penalties for failure to ensure compliance with these provisions. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
1 ) What research is being sponsored or undertaken by his Department into means of improving the efficiency of energy use in buildings. 
What sum (a) was spent for these purposes during 1978-79 and (b) has been allocated for 1979-80. 
What specific action has been taken to improve the efficiency of energy use in existing and future Government buildings. 
Has his Department taken any steps to introduce or recommend new buildings regulations to promote energy conservation in buildings. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 6 November 1979: 
1 ) What was the reason for encasing in concrete the containers of radioactive waste which were repatriated to Britain. 
Were there hazardous quantities of any radio-active materials other than plutonium in any of the containers. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
1 ) In view of the Prime Minister's statement to the House on 17 October 1979, that what is now happening represents a three-fold expansion of uranium requirements over the next 10 years  (Hansard,  page 2 102), is he able to say what is the estimated annual demand for uranium by (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom, (c) France, (d) West Germany, (e) Italy, (f) Japan, (g) the Republic of Korea, (h) Taiwan, (J) the Philippines, (k) Finland and (1) Canada during (i) 1980, (ii) 1985 and (iii) 1990. 
ls he also able to say in each case what is the assured supply of uranium under existing sales agreements. 
Is he also able to say what is the estimated annual production of uranium by (a) the United States of America, (b) Canada, (c) South Africa, (d) Namibia, (e) France, (f) Niger, (g) the Gabon and (h) other Western and Third World countries during (i) 1980, (ii) 1985 and (iii) 1990. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
What approvals have been granted to (a) Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd, (b) Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd and (c) Queensland Mines Ltd for the export of uranium in pursuance of contracts entered into force Before 2 December 1972. 
What was the (a) date of approval, (b) weight of uranium approved for export, (c) weight of uranium actually exported and (d) source of the uranium in each case. 
Through which ports has the uranium been transported and at which plants has it been processed or used in each case. 
