I add my congratulations to those of other honourable members to you,  Mr Speaker,  upon your election to your high office. I look forward to the impartiality of your judgments and to the continued friendliness which you have already shown to the House. As a new member I listened with interest to the speeches of the Governor-General and the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  who moved the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply. The program outlined by the Government is a clever one; it is cleverly designed to shift the whole balance of political power in Australia to Canberra. This vast continent is to be brought to the precipice of centralism. The constitutional balance of legislative authority and administrative function in the Australian Federation is to be deliberately distorted without the approval of the people, notwithstanding the repetition of mystical invocations by the advisers to the GovernorGeneral of the 'national will', the 'will of the people', and a somehow perceived 'instruction from the people'. Apparently these are expressions of a new Labor dogma, but a dogma without substance. The ideas are as archaic as they are irrelevant in a modern parliamentary democracy. The only instruction for constitutional change can come from a referendum of the people held under the Constitution, and while this Government's program is built upon the political foundation of the Constitution, ignoring its fundamental pillars of support, it can expect to be a ricketty structure for in the end the Government cannot be expected to have nor hold the goodwill of the people. 
It is said in the speeches I have mentioned that the Government's program is conceived in the spirit of and will be guided by a co-operative federalism - a fashionable term apparently. Honourable members would be excused for thinking this is a fancy description of Australian Federalism as it is and as it ought to be under our Constitution. In truth, the phrase hides a wholesale takeover of State authority and responsibility by the calculated use of Commonwealth economic power. The vehicle for this takeover is obviously to be the commission, so frequently mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech. There are 8 commissions in all to cover education, preschools, health, cities, transport and urban and regional development. As Commonwealth agencies, backed by the financial power of the Commonwealth, they are bound to become the fourth tier of government in this country. By their very nature, with the Commonwealth economic power behind them, they are likely to reduce State governments to mere appendages instead of healthy legislative organs vital to a healthy nation. The States must not be allowed to wither away under this assault, and I am sure that members of the Opposition will not allow that to happen. 
The honourable member for Casey finds justification for the Government's declared urban bias and co-operative federalism in an alleged studious neglect by successive national governments of urban needs, and comfort is drawn from the fact that new members of this Parliament largely represent outer suburbs of capital cities. I belong to that group. The Stirling electorate lies in a coastal belt rapidly spreading northwards from Perth, a microcosm of Australia with its crosssection of old and mushrooming new suburbs filled with new families, of coastal and inland suburbs, with a significant migrant population, and large Government low income housing areas and in the centre of it, a booming light industrial area. The electors of Stirling increased the Liberal Party vote by 10 per cent over the 1969 election figures and that trend was broadly reflected right across Western Australia. My electors and the people of West Australia look to a solution to their urban problems, common to all Australia, free of a central Canberra-based bureaucracy remote and distant from them. lt is fair to assume that in moving the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply, the honourable member for Casey reflects the Government's thinking and philosophy, justification for an urban bias in Government policies and co-operative federalism is seen also in the statement: 'Of course the States have little money', for the matters in respect of which the commissions I have mentioned are to be established. This seems very much litre a policy of starving the child and then in the name of humanity providing it with succour and thereafter seeking the plaudits of the crowd for a great and generous act of charity. But here 1 am already slipping under the influence of the Government's thinking of the States as children and Canberra as the fatherhead. Co-operative federalism today in Australia requires a policy of revenue sharing, not revenue starvation or economic coercion at which Ministers of this Government have so quickly shown themselves to be so adept. We are not only a highly urbanised society; we are also a highly regionalised country. A national identity and the national co-operation of all the peoples of a country which has such a great and abiding future can be forged and achieved once it is acknowledged that within the Australian federation States and their governments are a system of representative regional government as capable of discerning and expressing the regional will of its people as this Government claims for itself over the national will of the nation. Sadly, but inevitably I fear, the program of this Government will work by federal confrontation, not co-operation. 
Ministers have already embarked upon this course - against Queensland over territorial boundaries and Torres Strait islanders as well as over Aborigines and coal export prices, and against Victoria over housing. The calculated confrontation with all States over Aborigines which is to be found in the Governor-General's Speech disdains cooperation rather than enhances it. Co-operation is further denied by the stated intention expressed in the Governor-General's Speech to 'assert and establish' the so-called sovereign rights of this Parliament over the resources of the sea bed. This has been done without an ounce of any expressed sense of consultation with the States, let alone co-operation. If urban needs are in such a state of national neglect as the Government would have the country believe, and if co-operative federalism is to be the catchery, then the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  ought not to have cancelled the traditional February Premiers Conference. To have held it would have shown a true cooperative spirit. When one is held the Prime Minister will have armed himself with his array of commissions and will no doubt use them to fight off the States' claim for access to more Commonwealth funds. The message then to the Premiers will no doubt be: 'Don't worry, my commissions will fix it'. 
There is another area of Government action which causes great concern to the people of my electorate and to the whole of Western Australia. I refer to the December revaluation of the Australian dollar and the later failure to follow the United States dollar down. My colleague the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  in his maiden speech incisively exposed the weaknesses of the Government's policy in that matter. There is deep disquiet in Western Australia over what has happened. In that State there is an uncertainty as to whether the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  with cynical deliberation, without consultation with Cabinet and in the knowledge of the economic devastation which their action would cause to the future development of the State's and Australia's mineral and primary resources, nevertheless went ahead with the revaluation, or whether they acted from ignorance of what the consequences of that action would be. Either way, their conduct, and the scant public regard shown by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  of the plight of the mining industry, have shocked the people of Western Australia. It may be difficult for all honourable members to comprehend this fact. I hope that the honourable members for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and Swan  (Mr Bennett)  are aware of it and will express that feeling in Caucus. 
The Nullabor Plain is a gulf which modern communication cannot bridge completely. The attitude which the people of Western Australia have towards this area is not a parochial one. They know that the development of mineral and primary resources during a surging decade of development in the 1960s has earned for the western third of this continent the description 'the great States'. Development has been built upon a massive spirit of free enterprise in the Pilbara iron province and the Goldfields and Murchison nickel provinces and throughout the rural areas, uV, overflow from which has spilled into the southern cities, absorbed a huge migrant inflow and sped our population growth at a faster rate than any other part of Australia. This development in Western Australia saw export income from iron ore rise from $2.7m in 1965-66 to $375m in 5 years at a time when Australia's export  income  from wool fell disastrously from $700m to $493m. This is development which saw export income from nickel rise to $92m and from salt to $7.6m and which saw capital expenditure on mines, ports and infrastructure on iron ore projects of the order of $ 1,500m. It is development which has seen 10 new towns each built from a scratch on the surface of a big country with a population growth of some 25,000 people and with a projected growth to 85,000 by 1985. During this period of development 2 new ports, plus Port Hedland, which is the largest tonnage port in Australia, have been constructed. All of this has hap pened in less than a decade. This is regional development in action, not in theory, nor at the behest of a commission. 
More than that, nickel, salt and iron ore projects alone have provided the Western Australian State Government with royalties which have grown from a trickle in 1966 to a total of $75m by June 1972 and would have been expected to grow rapidly beyond the current annual rate of about 1522m. These royalties enabed the State to unshackle itself from the Grants Commission in 1963 - an arrangement which this Government proposes to restore in the name of regional development. My State does not want to go back to that. It wants to - and it will - go forward. But the arbitrary revaluation of the Australian dollar and the failure to follow the United States dollar down have damaged confidence, the most valuable commodity of all. This action will have a three-fold effect on all natural resource industries in Australia. Firstly, it will lower export returns; secondly, debt financing of existing projects will take longer to repay; and, thirdly, new development will need bigger volumes of production, and this will be an almost impossible hurdle to overcome in the future. But probably the most disastrous consequences will fall on the Australian companies already involved in development. Companies which have borrowed locally will not have the blow of revaluation softened like companies which have borrowed overseas. 
In the Governor-General's Speech there is a declaration of policy by this Government of maximising Australian ownership. That policy could well have been dealt a body blow by the arbitrary action of this Government in December and its stay-put decision in February. The position is further aggravated by the Treasury penalty upon borrowing overseas, when experience tells us that resource development of the magnitude involved is heavily dependent upon overseas borrowing. In some quarters this is glibly answered by condemning the companies for writing contracts in United States dollars without a currency safeguard clause, and haranguing those companies as foreign owned, with complete disregard for Australian participation in them. Were this not my maiden speech I might bridle unblushingly to the point of explosion at the obvious commercial ignorance and prejudice displayed in such remarks as this House has already heard in this debate. The unchallengeable fact is that without these long term sales contracts written in United States dollars there would not have been the development that I have described. United States bankers provided finance in quantities unheard of in Australia which could not be borrowed or would not be loaned locally. Long term sales contracts were financed in United States dollars because commercial necessity required the contracts to be written in the same currency. These contracts were written in 1964. 
If honourable members opposite took time out to read the statutes of Western Australia for that year they would see a pattern of agreements in that State which reflect what I have said. In 1964 when this was happening the United States dollar was untouched by currency problems. No company can sustain a loss of 21 per cent, the value by which contracts written in United States dollars have fallen with 3 effective devaluations of the United States dollar in 14 months. The iron ore companies in the Pilbara will lose approximately $A 1 1 2m in income this year as a result of the December and February decisions. The loss in value of long term contracts running to 1993 is immense. For example, the loss for one company amounts to $A256m. The total for all export iron ore companies approaches $A 1,000m. The Minister for Minerals and Energy could not tell the honourable member for Perth during question time last Wednesday what the Government's action meant to Western Australia in terms of postponed or cancelled development projects. Western Australia is entitled to know without delay. If there are postponements or cancellations we are entitled to know without delay what this Government proposes to do about it. The inability of the Minister to tell the people now the impact of what was done by his Government displays to the natural resource industry and to the nation the total absence of consideration by the Government of what it was doing before it was done. This Government has much to remedy and much to answer for. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! Before I call the honourable member for Gellibrand I remind the House that this will be the honourable member's maiden speech. I call the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Are there any applications before him for approval of farm-ins for off-shore oil and gas exploration areas of Western Australia? If there are, has approval in any case been deferred? How many deferments are there? What is the reason for the deferments, and when can it be expected that approval will be given so that exploration may proceed without delay? 
Having passed the Bill which increased salaries and allowances to members of this House it would not be the place of the Opposition to oppose this Bill and it does not intend to do so. Nevertheless, it has something to say about the manner in which this Bill now comes before the House. If I can take honourable members back to the time prior to the election, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech promised to. give all Commonwealth employees 4 weeks annual leave in lieu of the existing 3 weeks leave. The Senate has compelled the Government to honour that promise by disallowing the Public Service Arbitrator's determination by which that promise was to have been implemented. The Government should be happy that the Opposition has allowed it to act with some semblance of integrity. In his policy speech the Prime Minister without equivocation said that all Commonwealth employees would receive 4 weeks annual leave but within those first heady days of power the Prime Minister backed away from his promise. How he thought he could get away with it is beyond comprehension. After a Cabinet meeting on 20th December1972 the Prime Minister said: 
The first meeting of Labor's Cabinet decided not to oppose the claim for extra leave by Commonwealth public servants. The extra leave provisions will apply only to members of recognised unions and associations involved in work within the Service. 
Here was the Government in one of its first acts after the election dishonouring an election promise made to Commonwealth employees who were not members of a recognised union or association. The fraud on these public servants was obvious to anyone and brought forth the expected public outcry against it. The hypocrisy of the Government's changed stance on its election promise and the peculiar political logic which guided its actions were revealed by an answer by the Prime Minister to a question asked in this House on 28th February. He said: 
One of the first decisions the Government made  . . was to implement that promise. We are resolute that it shall be honoured. The principle that we have in mind- 
I repeat the words 'the principle that we have in mind'- is that this industrial benefit should go to those who, through their membership of organisations, have fought for it and secured it. 
The members of this House, as well as the public of Australia, are entitled to assume that the Prime Minister had this principle in his mind when he spoke to the public during the election campaign and made his promise to all Commonwealth public servants without discrimination. In that case, the conclusion is inescapable: Either the Prime Minister knowingly and deliberately misled the people of Australia or this so called principle is of recent origin, wantonly introduced by him under union pressure. 
The seriousness of the matter goes further. This Government sought to introduce 4 weeks annual leave by a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator rather than to introduce the Bill we now are debating. It is a very simple Bill which proposes to change the word 'three' to the word 'four'. But by this manoeuvre of referring the matter in the first place to the determination of the Public Service Arbitrator, the Government obviously sought to bypass the Parliament and tried to avoid debate in this House. We should be thankful that the Senate caused the Government to debate the matter in that House and caused it to bring the matter now before this House. 
By this manoeuvre, the Prime Minister and the Australian Labor Party have openly contradicted their own actions in this House when, in 1966, they were proposing 4 weeks annual leave for Commonwealth public servants. In that year, the present Prime Minister, as Leader of the Opposition, moved an amendment to a Public Service Bill to do precisely what the Bill now before the House will do, namely, alter the word 'three' to four' in section 68 (4) (a). In 1966 the Prime Minister as Leader of the Opposition recognised and declared that annual leave was a matter on which public servants could not resort to arbitration. Yet here in 1973 the actions of the Government which he leads would deny his own statement. I quote from Hansard of 18th October 1966, at page 1892. The Prime Minister said: 
We are often told that employees should resort to arbitration. This is  not a  matter where public servants  can  resort  to arbitration. 
He continued: 
Commonwealth public servant; cannot ask the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator or, on appeal from him. the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, to determine their annual leave. By statute the Commonwealth places a ceiling upon it. 
Again, later in the debate at page 1895 of Hansard, the Prime Minister said- 
It is not possible for Commonwealth public servants, for instance, to have their annual, long service or sick leave determined by arbitration tribunals. The conditions relating to leave are laid down in the Act. The Commonwealth does not take, in respect of its own servants, the attitude that the employees should go to arbitration. It enacts provisions dealing with the principal industrial conditions. 
The Opposition agrees with what was said then by the Prime Minister, as Leader of the Opposition, in 1966. The Commonwealth does not take, in respect of its own servants, the attitude that the employees should go to arbitration, lt enacts provisions dealing with the principal industrial conditions. 
We believe that that is where the provisions should stay and if they are to be altered, those basic industrial conditions should be altered by this Parliament. Again, at page 1897, the Prime Minister, as Leader of the Opposition, was recorded as saying: lt is impossible for Commonwealth employees to go to arbitration to have their annual leave determined. 
Three times the Prime Minister confirmed that fact and yet, in such a short time after being elected to Government, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable members who support him have denied his own statements. Who are we to believe -  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition, or  Mr Whitlam,  the Prime Minister? Perhaps we should believe the Minister for Labour. 
In the Senate, this shoddy trick - this fraud upon the people of Australia and the Commonwealth public servants - to deny to all public servants the benefit of a promise openly made by the Prime Minister to the people of Australia has been exposed. 
 1 happen to have been one. I happen also to have been an advocate for unions and you look like one, too. The Government, by its action, sought to favour unionists and sectionalise the Public Service. We in the Opposition do not consider it is right that entitlement to such a fundamental condition of employment as annual leave should be subject to membership of some chosen organisation - an organisation chosen by the Goverment. It should not be the vehicle for dividing the work force or any part of it between the haves and the have-nots. 
Annual recreation leave, as it is called in the Public Service Act, is something which all members of the work force earn by the work they do and the time they do it in, not by the organisation to which they belong. The Government might just as well say to public servants: 'You can work, but you won't get paid unless you belong to the XYZ union', or put a premium on union membership and deprive a worker of some part of his wage if he does not belong. The action of the Government has the most insidious implications for industrial relations in this country, lt is discrimination of the worst kind by a government which in other areas preens its feathers of pride under a banner of non-discrimination. 
Nothing could have been more calculated to divide the Public Service than the determination which the Senate disallowed. It would have created bitterness and resentment by sec.tionalising the Public Service which could have operated only to the detriment of the Australian people through diminished efficiency flowing from that sectionalisation. It is of no good the Minister for Labour saying, as he has on other occasions, that the determination was not back door compulsory unionism brought about by industrial coercion, industrial blackmail and ministerial interference. It is known that thousands - some have put the figure as high as 10,000 or 20,000 - of public servants joined industrial organisations in the 2 months after 20th December and before Parliament resumed, in order to qualify for 4 weeks' annual leave. These people had well and faithfully served the Commonwealth and were, without being conscripted into unions, as entitled as anyone to the extra week's leave. The provision of leisure time for which the Public Service Act provides for work done each year in the Public Service is a simple proposition finding simple expression in section 68 of the Act and, since the formation of the Commonwealth Public Service in 1901, it has been applied on an equal basis to all public servants. As I pointed out, this proposition was acknowledged and acted upon, by the Prime 
Minister when he was the Leader of the Opposition in 1966, but it was denied by him and by this Government in 1972. 
What was right for 71 years is not made wrong by 18 days of Labor government. The arrogance of this Government's approach to government was eloquently displayed by the open conflict which the Minister for Labour provoked with the Public Service Board over the implementation of the determination. The Board is established by statute to be, and to be seen to be, independent of the Government, applying its determinations with an even hand to all public servants. In this, the 4-week affair', the Board first had the principle of union favouritism foisted upon it and then had to face the blatant public attack upon its independence by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when the Board ruled that the extra week's leave would be received only by those public servants who were members of a recognised union or association on 1st January this year. The Minister is reported to have said: 
I would find it inconceivable that  Mr Cooley (Chairman of the Public Service Board)  would defy  a  decision of Cabinet. 
I am being kind by quoting only the one occasion. To the credit of the  Chairman  and the Board they refused to be intimidated by this attempted ministerial interference. For the  Chairman  to have yielded would have put him and the Board in an untenable position in the future when confronted by joint Government-union pressure. For the Minister to have accused the  Chairman  of defying a Cabinet decision was an absurd proposition. Once having put the matter in the hands of the Public Service Arbitrator and the Public Service Board, Cabinet was not in a position to dictate to them. The Arbitrator was free to make his determination and the Board was free to initiate its own action to implement the determination. 
The kindest thing that can be said of the Minister's outburst is that he did not understand what he was doing when the matter was referred to the Public Service Arbitrator, nor appreciate the role of the Arbitrator or the Board in the procedures initiated by him. The whole episode shows 3 things: Firstly, that the Minister has been cut down to size; secondly, the independence and integrity of the Public 
Service Board must be protected by Parliament - and it will be by a vigilant Opposition - from ministerial interference; thirdly, the public is not a plaything for the Prime Minister's electoral confidence tricks. In bis second reading speech the Prime Minister said: 
The Government has now decided that the only satisfactory way to implement our longstanding undertaking is by legislation.  lt is the only way to do it - not the only satisfactory way - as the Prime Minister himself said in 1966 in the passages from Hansard to which I have already referred. There is another aspect of the Prime Minister's second reading speech which is deserving of serious comment. It is another example of the inconsistency, contradictions, inaccuracies and equivocation which pervade the whole approach of this Government to this issue. I again quote from the Prime Minister's second reading speech: 
In the early years after Federation, employees of the Commonwealth Public Service set a standard for the rest of Australia in conditions of employment.  lt is simply not the case that the Commonwealth Public Service sets the standard of working conditions for the rest of Australia - certainly not in respect of annual leave and certainly not in respect of private industry. The most elementary knowledge and minor excursion into Australian industrial history will show that Commonwealth and State industrial tribunals have not accepted Public Service conditions as setting any standard for private industry. In 1960, when dealing with the claims by the metal trades unions for 3 weeks annual leave in a case which would have set the standard for private industry throughout Australia, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in unmistakable terms repudiated the proposition that conditions in the Public Service set a standard for industry generally. For the benefit of the Prime Minister, his speech writer and the Minister for Labour I give them the reference of that case. It is: Re metal trades award; re Annual Leave 96 CAR 206. 
The Commonwealth Arbitration Commission in all its hearings on annual leave has, whilst approving the desirability of increased leisure time, nevertheless been vitally concerned with the economic impact of granting increased annual leave, particularly in 1960 by one week from 2 to 3 weeks. The Commission refused it then but granted it in 1963 as the general standard within private industry. In the view of the Opposition it is right. proper and necessary for the exercise of responsible government that this Government should have considered the economic impact of granting 4 weeks annual leave to public servants. I have no doubt that the refusal of the former governments of  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Mr Holt  and  Mr Gorton  to grant 4 weeks annual leave was based on the economic consequences of doing so. Nowhere, in any published statement by this Government or by any Minister to this House to the public, has the Government displayed any regard for the economic consequences of its proposal. The extra leave now to be granted can only add to inflationary cost pressures building up within the economy by inevitably leading to an increased Public Service and a higher wages bill. 
The Prime Minister's second reading speech continued: 
We want the national Government to continue to set the pace in improving the working conditions of Australians. 
Hie implications of this are indeed serious, for what he is clearly saying is that this grant of one week's additional annual leave should De passed on to private industry. It is an open invitation to unions to follow the Commonwealth without regard to the economic consequences. This flies in the face of all the principles on which the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission has acted - principles as important, let alone valid, today as they have been for the past 40 years or so. Time and again the Commission has decided that the capacity of the economy to provide increased leisure time by extra annual leave to the private industry work force, must control its decision. 
The Government apparently wants to throw all that overboard. Its whole approach to this question and the conduct of its Minister for Labour show a contempt for established arbitral authority. Australia has established a system of industrial arbitration for private industry unequalled in the world for achieving wage and industrial justice. It has that established system of arbitration also for the Public Service. The Government tried to by-pass this system by referring the matter to the Public Service Arbitrator in a way which, if allowed to succeed, would have had dangerous and farreaching consequences for this country. This concept of pace setting, now espoused by the Government, has clearly dangerous implications for it can only be an open invitation to unions to entice the Minister for Labour to join in concerted action against private industry by the irresponsible use of Commonwealth economic power and indirect industrial pressure. Whilst the Opposition does not oppose the granting of 4 weeks annual leave to public servants, which will again put them in front of employees in private industry, it has a duty to expose the repudiation of an election promise; the attempted disruption of the independence of the Public Service Board; the erroneous propositions of the Prime Minister and the dangerous consequences of pacesetting by the Commonwealth for private industry at the expense of established industrial tribunals througout Australia. 
by leave- The speech of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  was most interesting for the many assertions that he made which were completely without foundation. I was interested to hear his assessment of the reserves which Woodside-Burmah is supposed to have on the north-west shelf. 
I would be even more interested to know what qualifications the honourable member for Hawker possesses which enabled him to give the assessments that he did of the reserves. The public record of the company that is exploring the north-west shelf shows that it has maintained a standing befitting a company of its international repute. When it was pressured both publicly and by the former Government to make an assessment of reserves of the North Rankin field in December last it did so although it did not at that time have an assessment by international independent consultants. It expressed that reluctance quite properly. Subsequently it sought and obtained an independent assessment on the basis of which it had to downgrade the reserves for that particular field. 
The honourable member for Hawker purports to put his figures on the reserves for the other fields that have been explored by Woodside-Burmah. For my part - and I am sure I speak for investors in Australia and all members of the House - I would place greater reliance on a firm of international repute independently consulted by Woodside-Burmah before it seeks to say what its reserves are. That is' what the company has done most recently in respect of the other fields. It has said that it will wait until that independent assessment is made before it will publicly put a figure on the reserves. That is a proper and responsible action to take and nothing that can be said by the honourable member for Hawker or by the Minister for Minerals and Energy can take anything away from that statement. 
The honourable member for Hawker expressed great concern for our national interest. 1 represent a Western Australian electorate. With equal vehemence I would express concern for the people of Western Australia as to the proper assessment of the reserves on the north-west shelf and the effective and proper exploitation of those reserves. 
It all has to be exploited in its own way. On the north-west shelf it must be exploited and the income that will come from those reserves will be applied to the benefit of Western Australia as well as to the nation. We in Western Australia have as much interest in what happens on that shelf as the Minister expressed for the country as a whole. I turn now to some of the points made by the Minister in his statement and the documents he has tabled in this House in order to show that what he has said is completely without foundation. I refer firstly to the document marked H', an outwards teleprinter message from the Minister's Department. Paraphrased, he said that not as much information has been supplied by the title holders as his Department considered ought to be provided. Then there is a most interesting part in the teleprinter message which was sent to the Western Australian Under-Secretary for Mines. The Under-Secretary was asked to send a letter to all the exploration companies in Western Australia calling upon them to provide information which the Minister said had not previously been provided. Then this astounding request was made, being an extract from the letter that the Minister wanted the Under-Secretary for Mines to write to the exploration companies in Western Australia: 
I have now to ask for an immediate explanation of the reasons for your failure to comply with the direction and my subsequent requests for the information. Consideration of action under the conditions of the permits and the provisions of sections 122 and 105 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act will be deferred for 48 hours to provide an opportunity for the receipt of your explanation and your advice of the steps being taken to comply with the direction. 
I am advised that the Designated Authority for Western Australia, the honourable  Mr Don  May, a Labor colleague of the Minister, refused point blank to send that letter. He refused point blank because he knew that the companies in Western Australia had provided all the information that was required by the Designated Authority and it would have been an affront to the Designated Authority for him to have sent the letter commanded by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  a command with which no sensible person would have complied. Fortunately  Mr May.  the Designated Authority, refused to send that letter. 
Document T in the papers that have been tabled is a follow-up from the Permanent Head of the Department of Minerals and Energy. lt contains the heading 'Missing Information as of Today'. There is a heading for WoodsideBurmah and a heading for Wapet, as Western Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd is commonly known. The latter company has never been mentioned by the Minister and one might ask why. As Wapet has exploration permits for a greater area than Woodside-Burmah one might also ask why the Minister and his supporters behind him single out Woodside-Burmah. In addition to those 2 companies there are Coastal, BP Abrolohos and ESSO. The information which was alleged not to have been supplied was firstly some cores and cuttings from 4 wells. In the teleprinter message to which I have referred a statement appears between brackets that the company rang to say that it was dispatching those cores and cuttings that day. It did so and the Minister received the information he was requesting. The next items are most interesting. They show the complete lack of foundation for the complaints that the Minister has made against the companies. The next item states: 
Secondly, no 3-monthly progress reports have been received. Thirdly, no 12-monthly comprehensive reports have been received. Fourthly, progress electric logs have not been received within the specified time. 
What answer was sent back by the Western Australian Under-Secretary for Mines? It is a most illuminating statement and it fortifies what I have said, that the assertions made by the Minister are completely without foundation. The reply states: 
These companies have been allowed under section 2 on page 43 of the schedule of requirements to submit half-yearly rather than quarterly reports. 
So the Designated Authority gave permission to the companies to supply half-yearly reports in lieu of quarterly reports, but the Minister is alleging that the companies have not provided quarterly reports. The fact of the matter is that the Minister did not do the job he should have done; that is, to find out from the Designated Authority what was going on. The Western Australian Under-Secretary for Mines went on to say: 
They have not been requested to submit annual reports as these are not mentioned in the schedule. 
By 'they' he meant the companies. Yet the Minister through his Permanent Head asked the companies to supply annual reports. The Under-Secretary for Mines also said: 
We are kept fully informed of exploration through reports on specific projects and have presumed that this was satisfactory to National Development as tha non-receipt of periodic reports had not previously been mentioned to the Mines Department. 
So the Designated Authority in Western Australia was affirming in unequivocal terms that the exploration companies named by the Minister bad kept the Designated Authority fully informed, and here we have the Minister before the House trying to tell the House and the people of Australia that information had been kept from him. 
The Minister and the honourable member for Hawker put great weight upon clause 13 of the Commonwealth-State agreement, but if that was read and - 1 venture to suggest - understood by the Minister he would see that the assertions that he is making are completely false and without foundation, because the clause states that a State government will, when so requested by the Commonwealth Government, ensure that copies of returns, reports, maps and so on are supplied. It refers to a State government, not a company. A State government will supply the information to the Commonwealth, not a company. Tt is the obligation of permit holders under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act of 1967 to supply the required information to the Designated Authority, and that is the appropriate Minister in the governments of the States. If the Commonwealth wants information the first place it can go to and the place to which it ought to go is the Designated Authority. The Minister, in the manner which has become so well known to this House and to the people of Australia, has tried to bluster his way through and to condemn companies for not supplying him with information, when those companies have supplied all the required information to the Designated Authorities. If the Minister has any quarrel at all it is with those Designated Authorities. 
So we come to this absurd situation that for some reason which has not yet become known to this House the Minister persists in condemnation of particular companies. The honourable member for Hawker has said that Woodside-Burmah in particular has refused to provide the information stating what its reserves are, and he seeks to castigate multinational companies. Presumably he places Woodside-Burmah in this category, and yet Woodside-Burmah is the only Australian based company in the consortium of companies exploring on the north west shelf. Then the honourable member for Hawker seeks to say that the company will not divulge its reserves. The Minister has made great play - and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as well - of the fact that the Commonwealth has control of exports. What is more logical if a company wishes to develop its resources than to obtain an export licence. If it is seeking to obtain an export licence obviously, in terms of the present Government's policy, it must establish that it has sufficient reserves first to satisfy the requirements of Australia. On that basis a company would inflate its reserves. It would not state its reserves at a conservative figure. The logical approach is to inflate the reserves. So the assertion of the honourable member for Hawker and the Minister is just palpable nonsense. 
So the whole approach of the Minister in this matter is, as the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  has said, a storm in a teacup. It is more than that, lt consists of assertions made without foundation. I invite honourable members to read the documents that have been tabled, which show that there is just no foundation whatsoever for what has been said. It does the Minister no good, when he is seeking to establish and outline a national policy with regard to minerals and energy, firstly to cast about for epithets and find an adjective instead, calling businessmen in the mining industry hill billies. He has not applied an adjective to those in the oil exploration industry, but no doubt he will find one and it will be found to be equally empty. But what I would say to the Minister is this: The oil and gas exploration industry in this country is so important to Australia's destiny and is so important to the destiny of Western Australia that it serves his country and it serves my State ill for him to continue in the way in which he is going. What he ought to be doing is talking to the industry frankly and in a friendly fashion. He obviously knows nothing about the industry. Those in the industry do. They have the expertise and he will learn from them if he goes to them. But what instead has the Minister done? He declined an invitation, for example, to speak to the industry at the recent Australian Petroleum Exploration Association conference which was held in Canberra only last week. 
What I am inviting you to do,  Mr Minister,  is to talk to those upon whom you must rely, and until you recognise that fact you will make no progress in the establishment of a national policy. 
I am interested in the destiny, as I have said, of Australia and my own State, and I do not see that destiny in the unsafe hands of the Minister in view of the way in which he goes on. 
Motion (by  Mr Hayden)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the Ministerial Statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nicholls)  adjourned. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the proposal in the British Budget 1973 that, in respect to the valuation of quoted shares or securities, -where they are sold within 12 months of death, those accounting for duty will be able to claim substitution of total sale price for value at date of death. 
If so, has his Department studied the impact of such a proposal on the collection of Commonwealth estate duty. 
If a study has been undertaken, will he, in the spirit of open government, make the study available. 
If a study has not been undertaken, will he arrange for one to be made. 
Will he follow the lead shown by the British Chancellor of the Exchequer and extend the same relief to persons paying Commonwealth estate duty. 
Does the Prime Minister consider the execution of Australian citizens in a foreign country a matter of great national interest? If the answer is yes, does the Prime Minister consider any Minister who is informed of the fact is under a duty to advise him immediately? If the answer is yes and in the event that a Minister does not so inform him, how seriously does the Prime Minister view such a breach of ministerial duty? 
No-one on this side of the House denies the need for trade unions in Australia, nor does anyone on this side of the House deny the right of working men and women to organise themselves into trade unions. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  say that no one on this side of the House had any right to speak about the subject because none of us had ever been a member of a trade union. I cannot claim to be a member of a trade union but I have had a long association with trade unions and I am grateful to those trade unions in Western Australia which have shown their confidence in me because whilst they have known what my politics are they have given me plenty of work to do for them. I find it a healthy sign that I can walk into the office of Jack Garland of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, sit down in his chair and have a talk to him about trade unionism. In the same way, I am grateful that I can walk into the office of the Australian Workers Union in Sydney and have a long talk to Frank Mitchell about trade unionism there. 
That is certainly more than the Minister for Labour could do. I have some, interest in this subject and I am glad it has come up for debate so early in this Parliament. This Parliament has power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of our Commonwealth with respect to conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of interstate disputes. The good intentions of our constitutional fathers are obvious. They wanted an end to industrial warfare which disrupts industry, hurts men and their families, weakens the national economy and above all pits Australian against Australian in unremitting conflict in the false name of the class struggle. Are the good intentions of this Parliament any different? I would think not and I would hope not. Then what is this Government trying to do? Nothing is more calculated to bring war, disorder and bad government to industry and to the economy than these, the Cameron proposals which we are debating today. This Government has no mandate for that. The will of the people has no expression in this Bill. In truth, it is only the expression of the Australian Council of Trade Unions wages policy, and that is something to which J will return later. 
This Bill, by its central provisions, in one calculated step, will cut the heart out of the arbitration system and leave the limbs twitching in helplessness. This Bill is aimed at leaving unions uncontrolled and uncontrollable by law or government at every point in the process of conciliation and arbitration. In what must be a classic example of words running riot and being used without meaning the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said: 
This Government will not abolish conciliation and arbitration; it will reconstruct it and strengthen it to eliminate features repugnant to harmony and good relations in industry. . . . 
The result of this Bill must be for the trade union movement to move further and further away from both conciliation and arbitration - certainly by those major unions formed by amalgamation. They will not need arbitration once they have an absolute right to strike, and conciliation will be only window dressing for collective bargaining backed by strike. Shorn of all the trappings of the Minister's hour-long speech, what the Bill does is to remove all constraints upon a union to conciliate or go to arbitration. It is free to strike or place a limitation upon work throughout all efforts by a commissioner to conciliate and whilst a commissioner is sitting to arbitrate. Negotiated agreements cannot contain an anti-strike clause, so unions are free to overturn an agreement at any time. A union cannot be disregistered. nor can any provision in an award or an agreement be cancelled or suspended because of any strike action during its term. At the same time, unions are given immunity from civil action. It is ironic that at a time when the United Kingdom has just repealed laws passed in 1906 giving civil immunity to unions, the Minister is aiming to introduce those same laws into Australia. It might be said that the Minister is some 70 years behind the times. 
An individual or employer economically hurt by calculated industrial attacks launched by unions intending to harm or destroy by strike, boycott, picketing and sundry other sophisticated techniques of industrial coercion, is to be prevented from suing for compensation in a civil court. With a magnanimous gesture, of which I am sure only the Minister is capable, he will kindly let a widow sue if her husband is killed in a brawl with a picket line as he tries to get to work, and let a person sue if he is hurt or his car is damaged by that picket line, or his building is damaged by hooligan builders labourers, or if he is defamed. But a man may suffer a financial death when his business is destroyed by boycott, or he loses his job because he will not join a union, or his truck will not run without petrol which the union has refused to supply. To whom can his wife and family turn? Death and injury are not the exclusive preserve of negligent drivers on the roads. It would indeed be a strange society which would allow no compensation to a man or woman injured by deliberate, calculated, conduct, and yet in the end this is what the Minister's Bill would do. 
One need not speak here, in justification of the Bill, of the likes of General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd; one can think also of the small businessman who can equally be the subject of union action. There is a danger in monopoly power of any kind. This is what this Bill aims at giving to unions for not even the Government, acting in the public interest, is to be allowed any right to control unions when they use their industrial strength. Corporate monopolies are acknowledged to be against the public interest; price rings and. trading cartels likewise. Governments have struggled for years to win this control over business activity. Is union monopoly any different in quality? No power or privilege - private, business or union - within a community should be allowed to go unchecked. 
The Government's proposals in this Bill place industrial relations in Australia at the crossroads. Recent history, both industrial and legislative, shows that the Federal arbitration system is now neither one thing nor the other; neither a system of arbitration nor a system of collective bargaining. The machinery of arbitration has lost any sense of sureness of approach or acceptance. Wage fixation principles, so reliably turned to in the past by unions, employers and the Commission have been fragmented and eroded. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act today does not express any plain and unmistakable social policy for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes, and that is the constitutional charter given to this Parliament. In effect, what the Minister is doing is the antithesis of this. His policy is an open door policy to foster and create disputes. The Minister's proposals will not help because they try to graft full-blooded collective bargaining on to a system made for compulsory arbitration within which unions and employers were bound to accept a measure of control, and self-control, in return for the benefits which arbitration was intended to bring. 
If Australia is to have collective bargaining, let the legislation plainly and unmistakably spell it out, together with the rights, obligations and privileges of the participants and the protection for the public from the monopoly power of unions and of employers. If we are going to have arbitration, let us just as plainly and unmistakably spell out the system of arbitration, and in that sense it might do the people of Australia well to look back on the origins of the unique Australian arbitration system. The economic implications of this Bill are as important as its social implications, particularly in view of the current debate on inflation, price control, price justification and an incomes policy. 
The past history of the Australian arbitration system can be seen as an expression of an acceptable wages policy for unions, employers and Government. This Bill, on the other hand, can be seen to be the implementation of the wages policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, a policy designed to shift union action from achieving its wage claims inside the confines of the arbitration system to breaking those confines and moving outside arbitration. This is clearly reflected in the ACTU wages policies decided at the 1969 and 1971 congresses. There is a direct link between congress policy on the so-called penal provisions and its wages policy on over-award payments. I was thankful to hear the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  refer to the General Motors-Holden's case in 1964 and confirm my own conclusions for me, because he put it clearly, in what he referred to as a non-arbitral area of over-award claims, that when the unions went on strike in support of their over-award claims they opposed the attempt by employers to have the penal powers exercised against them. It also interested me to hear him say this because I had the unique experience in 1969 of presenting a pay claim for the metal trades unions in Western Australia based on the capacity of Western Mining Corporation to pay an industry allowance, being in effect the same as an over-award payment. I have also had the unique experience of having  Mr Bob  Hawke, in arguing the 1970 General Motors-Holden's case, accepting my arguments and propounding them before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It was also significant to observe that in that case the Commission very largely accepted those submissions. 
I turn to the congress decisions themselves. There are 2 policy statements. I shall quote only from the 1971 Congress decisions. The first one, under the heading 'Wages Policy', states: 
Congress declares over-award payments negotiated or obtained by collective bargaining where practicable incorporated in voluntary agreements to be an essential part of Trade Union wages policy. The application of this aspect of ACTU policy since the mental article of faith of the buyers of our labour in creases being negotiated by collective bargaining, and we urge affiliates to continue this activity. Congress will not accept any absorption of over-award payments. 
Then under the heading of 'Penal Provisions' the congress decision states: 
The authority of the organised Trade Union Movement should not be impeded in the performance of responsible traditional functions which must include the right to withhold labour or impose limitation of performance of work- otherwise the minimum wage and conditions of work awarded by tribunals become the maximum and inhibit the possibilities of improvements. 
I ask for leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard the full text of the wages policy and the penal provision statement from that ACTU congress. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
WAGES POLICY 
Congress declares that the real value of workers' wages in no way reflects any equitable share of the wealth being produced in Australia from the national resources and the level of available technology. 
Monopolies and other large enterprises many of which are foreign-controlled and aided and abetted by government, deny the Australian people their right to a higher standard of living, while enjoying unprecedented profits. 
We declare that: 
Award rates generally are inadequate and continually fall behind rising living costs. Low wage rates and multiplicity of classifications for semi-skilled and female workers especially in mass production industries, results in a high degree of exploitation. 
Congress adopts the following principles: 
Within all Awards and Determinations there must be a basic or foundational wage element which must provide for the reasonable needs of a married wage earner and bis family. This element is to be assessed without any regard to any over-award payment, service grant, industry allowance, or similar payment; what are reasonable needs being determined from time to time in the light of standards generally accepted in progressive communities, and the social aspirations of the Australian people. On current pay levels we consider this element should be in the order of $70 per week. 
This wage shall be adjusted automatically each quarter to reflect movements in the Consumer Price Index and there shall be an annual review of the wage to determine the increase warranted on general economic grounds including movements in productivity. 
Beyond this basic or foundational element wages must be fixed at levels which fully reflect the true value of work performed by all grades of wage and salary earners in this country. At least consistent with the standard relativities achieved in 1947. These wages shall be adjusted annually to reflect movements in prices and productivity. 
The form of application for wage increases at such annual fixations shall be determined by the Executive in the light of existing circumstances; in making decisions as to the form of application, the Executive in conjunction with the ACTU Wages Committee and in consultation with the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, shall seek to ensure the establishment of appropriate relativities between classifications. 
Congress declares over-award payments negotiated or obtained by collective bargaining where practicable incorporated in volutary agreements to be an essential part of Trade Union wages policy. The application of this aspect of ACTU policy since the 1969 Congress has resulted in many substantial increases being negotiated by collective bargaining, and we urge affiliates to continue this activity. Congress will not accept any absorption of over-award payments. 
Congress calls upon the ACTU Executive to consult with State Branches, ACSPA and CCPSO in order to develop a strong campaign by the whole of the Trade Union Movement in support of our wages policy, and in particular to combat the utterly false propaganda of Federal Government spokesmen and employer interests that the Unions' claims for proper wage rates are inflationary. For the purpose of conducting this campaign Congress requests affiliated unions to make their research facilities available to the ACTU and would welcome the co-operation of the entire research and campaigning facilities of affiliated unions. That a pamphlet on wages/prices be prepared and circulated to the affiliated unions. 
This policy decision was a calculated turning away from the arbitration system at the top end of wages, leaving the Commission to fix a minimum wage and unions free to bargain in the market place for anything above that. Thus it was intended that there be no regulation at the top end of wages. Yet the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  as recently as 13th April, in an address to the Companies Directors Association of Australia said this: 
The Government believes wages are already regulated through arbitration. 
That statement shows a complete failure to understand trade union policy and an apparent failure to appreciate the economic significance of his Government's own legislation. 
Yes, he is the Treasurer. The effects of this Bill, if it becomes law, are of the greatest social and economic significance to Australia. They cannot be lightly ignored because Australia today is on the threshold of the greatest public debate on inflation that it has seen in recent times. Inevitably this debate will lead this Government to a confrontation with the unions because, whatever else an incomes policy might be, it necessarily involves control over wages. For 65 years, history shows the Arbitration Commission and the State industrial tribunals have been a stabilising influence on the economy, for in the process of preventing and settling disputes the Commission, by arbitration, shaped a wages policy for the nation, fought over but accepted broadly by unions and employers alike. That is basically what industrial arbitration is about - the fixing of wages and basic conditions of employment like annual leave, standard hours of work, concepts like the basic wage, margins, work value, comparative wage justice and conciliation, all principles turned to by unions, employers and arbitrators. But all these will count for nought in the new bargaining atmosphere which this Bill is intended to create. 
Through all the years of pioneering, war, depression and post-war reconstruction the arbitration system in Australia largely kept in step with the economy - the one reflecting the other - and thereby established acceptable patterns of economic adjustment of incomes. The Commission looked upon itself as performing - it was performing too - a wage-fixing function. It was precisely that function which made Australian arbitration unique and, in many quarters of the world, the envy of other Western industrialised nations. Whilst wages were fixed in that way by both Commonwealth and State industrial tribunals there was an inbuilt national wages stability and consequent price and economic stability. I do not try to over-simplify the most inexact of sciences - that is, economics - as my colleague the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  confidently acknowledges, but there is an undoubted thread starting with arbitra tion and running through our economic history. 
This legislation is nothing more than an expression of ACTU wages policy coupled with some peripheral matters. It had its genesis in the absorption struggles of the trade union movement in 1967-68 over the 1967 metal trades work value inquiry. That was a struggle to maintain a wages policy based on the over-award rate. The trade union movement then won a complete victory over the Commission which sought absorption and the employers who also sought it and who tried to use the penal powers to uphold it. As a result of that victory the over-award area of wage fixation has become the greatest distorting factor upon the Australian arbitration system. 
If this Bill succeeds it will fundamentally shift wage fixation from arbitration to the market. Only the minimum wage will be left for arbitration, for there will then be no need to speak about over-award payments in context of negotiated agreements. This legislation will mark a fundamental change in Australian social and economic policy. The centre point of that change, as it has been so euphemistically expressed by  Mr Hawke  himself, is the concentration of union energy away from arbitration and into bargaining. The complete immunity of unions from strike action, either within the arbitration system or within the civil courts, marks the completion of the change. But nothing is more certain than that as the arbitration system through its wages policy largely kept in step with movements in the economy, the breakdown of arbitration means that Australia is presently in the throes of working out new patterns of economic adjustment of incomes. It is not without significance that at a time when a prices policy is in its infancy in Australia - the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Labour reluctantly concede that the Government may have to turn to an incomes policy to defeat inflation created by the Government - arbitration and the Commission are being rendered impotent as a force in regulating wages. The action of the Government by this Bill will inevitably mean a convulsion in the Australian economy and in the relations between employers and employees before this country finds itself having to embark upon a full blooded prices-incomes policy. Within the life of this Parliament the Government will have its own confrontation with the trade union movement because it will be obliged to introduce a prices and incomes policy to contain inflation of its own creation. Of necessity the policy will need to control wages, and of further necessity will require some control over the right of trade unions to strike. Like Harold Wilson and Barbara Castle before them, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will soon find their own place in strife. 
It is a pity to hear the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  speak as he did trying to interpret a section of the Act when obviously he is unable to do so. 
He does not understand it at all. When the sub-section to which he referred speaks of the Governor-General designating a person in a particular capacity, what the Governor-General is saying is that  Mr X  will be a conciliation commissioner and  Mr Y  will be an arbitration commissioner. 
Or vice versa. What does it matter? The point is that the GovernorGeneral appoints him in a certain capacity. Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, once he is designated in that capacity, he fulfils the function which the office carries with it. The clear intention of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is that rather than the Governor-General designate a person as a conciliation commissioner or as an arbitration commissioner, those functions will be merged and the one person can fulfil the 2 functions. As my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has amply demonstrated, the Minister has not shown any reason whatsoever for changing the provisions that were introduced in 1972 aimed at separating the functions of conciliation from those of arbitration. In his second reading speech he says this: 
Grave problems have arisen in the operation of these provisions. 
Precisely. As the honourable member for Moreton says, what are these grave problems? It is very easy to make an assertion, as the Minister has done, but it is very much harder to justify the assertion made, more particularly when there is no attempt whatsoever to justify that assertion. The Minister goes on to say: 
The best talent for the one function or the other has not always been wearing the right hat. 
If Bill Smith has not worn the right hat, does that give any reason why he should wear 2 hats? If he is incapable of wearing one, how is he shown to be capable of wearing two? The proper solution to the problem with which the Minister has been confronted is to make sure that he wears the right hat, not to make him carry the additional burden of 2 steel helmets. So the point is that nowhere has the Minister demonstrated the need to change what was introduced in 1972. One might well, and justifiably, understand that, given a reasonable time, a person in a particular capacity fulfilling special functions will develop the skills appropriate to that function. No man is so perfect that he can always place all people in the right categories. Some of us at least are prepared to acknowledge that we might be skilful at one thing but that we are hopeless at another. So it is in arbitration, as in any walk of life. Certain persons will be skilled in certain areas. 
The intention of the amendments which were introduced in 1972 by the then Government was to provide that a person should try to develop special skills in the area of conciliation or in the area of arbitration. 1 would suggest that it is obvious that if a person has sat as a conciliator asking both parties in a spirit of frankness and goodwill to lay their cards on the table with the object of settling in a fair and frank manner a dispute that has arisen, both parties or at least one of them could well hold the belief that the person who has sat as conciliator in an attempt to negotiate a settlement might well have built up prejudices or, if not prejudices, at least attitudes which, if he sat as an arbitrator, would prevent a spirit of fairness prevailing in the arbitration. That is not suggesting that a man who is thrust into this position deliberately takes one side or another. The 1972 proposals, which were accepted by this Parliament, are aimed at separating the functions of conciliation from the functions of arbitration. It is not a unique proposition that was put into operation at that time. It is something that is well founded in good sense and sound judgment. Unless both parties agree to a person who has sat as chairman in conciliation, that person should not sit in arbitration upon the dispute. I know from my own experience in Western Australia, looking at the industrial legislation of that State, that that principle has been accepted for many years and has been acted upon by both parties. 
So what the Opposition objects to is that without any justification at all, without showing what the problems are that have arisen and without demonstrating how the one man can fairly wear 2 hats the Minister is seeking to overturn an existing situation and compel the one man to be both conciliator and arbitrator. The Minister goes on to say in his second reading speech: 
Parlies have sometimes expressed a preference for arbitration to be carried out by the person who attempted to conciliate the differences between the parties. 
The Minister says that parties have sometimes expressed this preference, but I ask him how many times. He had not told the Parliament how many times. What is the proportion of the number of cases when the parties have wanted the same man to conciliate and arbitrate to the number of cases when other parties have wanted a different man to arbitrate? What an argument the Minister then uses. He says: 
The work load between commissioners has varied substantially. 
That is not a matter of policy; that is a matter of mere administration, and it is up to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to administer the Act in an appropriate way so as to put the work load fairly upon all persons working within it. Then he goes on to say: 
There has been an increase in internal paper work. 
Since when has the weight of paper determined the policies of government and the principles upon which our arbitration system operates? Since when has mere weight of paper justified a change of the kind that the Minister proposes? The simple answer is to cut out the paper work and let the commissioners, both conciliation and arbitration, get down to business. If they are allowed to get down to business, no doubt what was written into the Act in 1972 can operate in the effective and proper way in which it was intended. 
I am grateful for the Minister recognising the sharp and agile mind that I have. Not having been very long in this House, I notice how percipient the Minister is in realising my attributes so soon after I have arrived. But I also have the capacity to read, which no doubt comes from that sharp and agile mind he has recognised, and I notice on reading the Minister's own Bill that proposed sub-section (2b) of section 5 of the principal Act is the one shifting the onus of proof to which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  referred. I notice also that that proposed sub-section refers specifically to paragraph (c) of sub-section (1a), and paragraph (c) of sub-section (1a) happens to be one of the proposals of the Minister in his Bill. The Minister says that his proposal under proposed sub-section  (2b )  is a specific defence to the offence created by proposed sub-paragraph (c) of sub-section (1a) of section 5. I notice the Minister nodding; so he follows what I have been saying. Of course, if proposed new sub-section (2b) does what the Bill says, obviously existing subsection (4.) of section 5 does not apply. 
lt applies, of course, but it applies to other sections, and what the Minister's Bill does is specifically to provide for a special defence in the special circumstances proposed by the Bill. My having explained that to the Minister, if the Minister cannot follow it, as my colleague the honourable member for Moreton says, what it shows is simply that the Minister has not the sharp and agile mind that I have. 
The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  asks: What is wrong with this clause? We have made provision for major detriment to the public interest'. It has been properly pointed out that before a matter can get to the Full Bench under the Minister's proposals it has to jump 2 hurdles. First of all, it has to jump the hurdle of the commissioner to whom application is made to certify the agreement, and it is the commissioner who must first form the opinion whether a matter of major detriment to the public interest is involved. What happens if the commissioner incorrectly forms the opinion that it does not involve a matter of major public interest? There is no provision in the Bill for an appeal against an error of that kind by a commissioner. It is a matter of complete and unfettered discretion. The second hurdle arises when the commissioner, having formed the opinion that it does amount to a matter of major detriment to the public interest, must refer it to the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The  President  might have a different opinion from that of the Commissioner in the first instance and he might say: 'No, I do not think it does have that effect', and that is where the matter ends. It can never then get to the Full Bench. Contrast that with the existing provisions of section 31. There is a clear obligation on the Full Bench to deal with an agreement that is presented for certification where the specific matters set out in the section are affected by that agreement. 
That is the present legislation. The Minister proposes to do away with that requirement. One would have thought that if a matter of major detriment to the public interest was involved in an agreement to be certified, automatically it should go before the Full Bench and not have to jump 2 hurdles before it can get there. That is the centrepoint of the objection of the Opposition to these proposals. The Minister in whatever he has said has not touched upon that. He has not given any reason, let alone any good reason, why the provisions of section 31, as presently framed, are being set aside and this other procedure is being set up. What the Minister proposes to do must be looked at in the light of the intention to remove sanctions, to remove the bans clause, to remove any control over an agreement that has been entered into. What greater love affair can there be between employer and employee than is this situation where there is no sanction upon the parties, where they can reach any agreement they want to reach, where a commissioner, either through blindness or some other cause, does not recognise a major detriment to the public interest? That is where the matter would end. There is an agree ment entered into which is certified and effective as an award. 
The other important matter 1 would mention now is the proposal in clause 17 dealing with the requirement, as contained in proposed new sub-section (2a) of section 28, that before a memorandum is certified in accordance with the section there must be produced a statutory declaration by the officer authorised by the committee of management that the principles are agreed to or there can be required a declaration that the members affected by the agreement have been consulted and agree to it. This diametrically cuts across the fundamental basis upon which unions are registered, and authority is granted to a committee of management to stand in the place of the members when an agreement is entered into or when an application is made to the Commission for an award. The proposal is that there may be required approval by the members who are affected by the agreement. This will localise approval to the shop or to the section of the industry or to the individual employer involved in the dispute. This is a straight collective bargaining concept. One goes down to the floor level, the shop level, to see whether the men approve of what is being done. 
 The honourable member might say 'Shame' but where do the officials of the union fit in here? They are clothed with authority within the organisation to manage its affairs, and generally within the rules of an organisation they are clothed with authority to conduct negotiations and to make references to the Commission and to act for the organisation in the place of, for example, the 180,000 members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. That is the foundation and function of a registered organisation and of its officials under our Conciliation and Arbitration Act. But what is proposed here is that what the officials do, what they might agree to in conciliation, can be completely overturned by the men at the shop floor. Who is to hold ultimate control or authority within the organisation? It is to be a yo-yo affair between the nien at the shop floor and the management? Where will it end? When does the yo-yo stay on the floor and when does it rise to the top? This can be and is an eroding and weakening of the authority of official management of unions. 
I know that so often the management of a union, in order to get out of difficulties - may be it is in order to get out of an agreement it does not want to enter into - will go back to the men and, if the word goes around in the right way, of course the men will not agree. This is the perfect let-out for management. So there is in this provision an insidious sort of eating into the authority of official management. The Minister has not given any reason for introducing this provision except in the euphemistic name of participatory democracy. Really, what kind of union organisation does the Minister want? To come back to a point I made at the second reading stage, what kind of system does the Minister want to operate? Does he want a hybrid affair or does he want something which is clear and unmistakable in its terms, something which puts management in a position where it can exercise the function of authority that it should have, or will the Minister go to the other lengths and give that authority to the men on the shop floor? These 2 things clearly run in harness and it is more than coincidental that they appear in the one clause, clause 17. So these 2 things are removed. I refer to the removal of the automatic authority of the Full Bench to approve an agreement which has far-reaching consequences, as is already outlined in the existing section 31, and the altering of wage rates, the altering of the minimum wage, the altering of wage rates for females, annual leave and so on. Now it comes down to the mere discretion of a commissioner. Couple that with the provisions I have mentioned already in regard to going back to the men for approval and what in the end do we have? I should like the Minister to explain really want is at the heart and core of his thinking on this. 
Clause 55, which is included in this group of clauses, provides for the insertion of a new section 146a which is intended to grant what has been briefly described as civil immunity to unions and to union officials from any harm that is done to other persons by industrial action, except in certain specific cases mentioned in the section, namely, death or physical injury, physical damage to property or threats of that kind, or defamation. This is something about which I spoke at the second reading stage but clearly it is tied in with the intention of the Government to give unions immunity not only from civil action but also from any penalty in the face of strikes, whether they be strikes against awards or strikes against agreements. It is significant to note that the amendments that we made to the chief objects of the Act did not seek to remove altogether sub-paragraph (d) which says that one of the chief objects of the Act is to provide for the observance and enforcement of agreements and awards made in prevention or settlement of industrial disputes. It would be interesting now to hear the Minister tell us how this Bill is intended to provide for the observance and enforcement of awards and agreements in the face of the removal of sanctions and the provision for civil immunity. It is easy for the Minister to say: 'Why should unions be subject to any civil action when they have and ought to have a right to strike?' It was most illuminating to hear the honourable gentleman speaking on the sanctions provisions in language which I bad always understood to come from the 19th Century. But we are in the 20th century and we have come a long way since the battles were fought for the right of workers to organise into trade unions. 
I remind the Minister that there is no need to fight those battles today. They have been fought and they have been won. Everybody recognises and acknowledges the rights of employees and the rights of unions. But why should unions, their officials and their members be placed in any different situation from other members of the community when by their deliberate, calculated conduct intended to harm a person, that person is injured? I use the word 'injured' here in the sense of financial harm. Why should deliberate action intended to produce a particular result which financially injures a person be free from any civil action? Why should the person who is hurt not have resort to the ordinary courts of law? I think that when a question is posed in that way no really satisfactory answer can be given to justify an ordinary citizen - man. woman or child - being deprived of a right of relief in the civil courts of- this land. 
As I said in my second reading speech, a person can suffer financial death at the hands of a union, a group of union officials or of union members, just as easily as a person can suffer financial death from the direct action of individuals who are not unionists or officials of a union. So why, in one case, should a person who is not a unionist or an official of a union be liable in the courts of law and, in the other case, a union official or union member not be liable? I ask the Minister: Where is the point of distinction? There is none. There can be none, ff all persons in the community are to be equal before the law and to have equal rights before the law, they must also have equal obligations before the law. 
These provisions, no doubt, are designed to avoid, for example, the situation in which unions found themselves in the United King- dom where a union sought to deprive a man of his employment because he would not join that union. 
 As the honourable member for Moreton points out, that was the celebrated case of Rookes v. Barnard where the tort of intimidation was acknowledged to be available against a union. In that case the individual - the employee, the person for whom the Minister spoke most highly this morning and in great indignation because he thought it was his exclusive preserve to speak in favour of individuals who are employees - was fortunate enough to find that the agreement that the union had entered into with the British Overseas Airways Corporation contained a nostrike clause. The legislation proposed by this Government expressly says that an agreement entered into to settle an industrial dispute cannot contain an anti-strike clause. That means that in Australia a person who is deprived of his livelihood because of direct union action would have no remedy available to him. So in this case the Minister has shown that he knows the law. At least we can acknowledge that. But the point is that an individual can be deprived of his livelihood, and by this legislation he is to be deprived of any legal remedy. Fortunately, members of the House of Lords in the United Kingdom, enlightened judicial gentlemen as they are, held that that man had a sufficient remedy, so a person in that situation in Australia ought to have the same kind of remedy. 
The Minister for Labour is seeking in effect to introduce the provisions of early United Kingdom legislation which protected unions from conspiracy and other tortious acts done in furtherance of industrial action. That Bill was introduced in the United Kingdom in 1906. No legislature in Australia, except for the Queensland Parliament, has sought to introduce that law into Australia. No State court or Federal Parliament has sought this, but here we have this Government, some 66 years after the United Kingdom legislation, trying to introduce the same provision into Australia. It has taken a long time for that attempt to be made. Let us hope that it will take a very short time for that proposal to be effectively killed. But then, the Government has the numbers and no doubt it will steam roller it through as it has done throughout this debate by the use of the guillotine. 
Not only the Parliament but also individuals have been treated with utter insolence, for it is the individuals who suffer at the hands of direct action. To say this is not to condemn unions. It is not to allow the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  to rise in indignation and say that he, and only he, can speak for the workers of Australia. 
Indeed he does, but still his arguments do not carry any greater weight for that. It can be said that we on this side are the ones who, in this case, are seeking to uphold the rights of individuals, be they members of a union, be they employees, be they any other members of the community. It is the Government which is seeking to take away established rights of individuals in Australia, rights which have been, as I have said, with Australia and with the people, apart from Queensland, for the whole of this century. No satisfactory reason has been given by the Minister in his second reading speech for the civil immunity that his Government proposes to introduce by this legislation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I refer to the joint statement made recently by him and the Treasurer about the withdrawal of tax concessions and petroleum subsidies. Has the Minister considered the effects on bona fide Australian companies engaged upon mineral and petroleum exploration of the removal of tax concessions and subsidies for oil explorers? If so, what will the effects be? If he has not considered the matter, will be undertake a study as a matter of urgency? 
Does the Minister intend to provide replacement incentives to bona fide Australian companies engaged upon exploration, and incentives for Australians to invest in such companies? 
Listening to the honourable members opposite, one would think that the companies involved in exploration, development and use of petroleum and natural gas in Australia simply know nothing about their industry, that they have no expertise, either local or introduced from overseas, and that therefore the Government in the form of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  comes te Australia as a new John the Baptist. 
No, that is left for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He is the Messiah. But in this area the Minister for Minerals and Energy, the new John the Baptist, displays to the people of Australia all the knowledge that no one had before. He presents to the Government and to the people a whole host of policies. He is to establish the National Pipeline Authority. He is to establish a national fuel and energy authority, and he is to have public ownership maximised within this industry as if there had not been any ownership by the people of any kind before. He is introducing a whole host of new policies as if the petroleum exploration and development industry has been down and out, has merely been a beggar wandering through the prospective oil and gas fields of Australia not knowing what to do. But of course nothing could be further from the truth. 
Within a very short time Australia has developed a high capacity and expertise in this field both on the technical side and in management. When the Minister and others on the Government side speak of overseas ownership they never mention the degree of Australian participation in management or the degree of Australian participation in local boards of directors and at that level. All that is forgotten and what we have is this new charter for the petroleum industry. It is a charter of nationalisation, and that can be demonstrated quite clearly. One hears so much coming from the other side about the national will, public or Australian ownership but when it is shorn of all these highsounding phrases and when one looks at the policies and platforms of the Australian Labor Party one sees that they are all policies and platforms formulated and implemented in pursuit of the Party's fundamental policy of socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. I think it was the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who in congratulating the Minister pointed out that the Minister was the author of the policy on this industry in the Australian Labor Party's platform. I have no doubt that the Minister would not hesitate to say that he formulated that policy aiming to implement, when the Australia Labor Party formed the Government, its policy of socialisation or nationalisation. 
It is interesting to see in the Bill the sources of constitutional power that the Minister is endeavouring draw upon. In clause 13 (2) he first seeks to draw upon the Commonwealth's legislative power in respect of trading corporations within the limits of the Commonwealth, and it may be no accident that this authority is declared to be a body corporate. Then of course it is intended to draw on the power to make laws in respect of territories and next the power relating to trade and commerce with other countries, among the States and between territories or between a territory and a State. Finally the Minister, in a time of undoubted peace, seeks to draw on the defence power of the Commonwealth. If nothing more would show the purpose, drawing on the defence power in a time of undoubted peace indicates what the Government is all about. It is seeking to use the limits of the Constitution as it views them and in a way in which it will implement its policy of nationalisation. I have no doubt that on the Governments side honourable members think that at last they have found the key to unlock the Constitution and to enable them to embark upon their policies of socialisation. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  congratulated the Minister because he was acting in the national interest in developing a national grid. We have heard this phrase 'national interest' for a long time, but while I have been in this Parliament, which has been the duration of the present Government, I have never heard that phrase defined. The public is never told what it truly means when spoken by Government supporters. This is where the Opposition and the Government draw their political battle lines. 
As the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and the. right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  said, we do not want to see this national grid or national Pipeline Authority made an instrument of policies of nationalisation. That is what the Opposition's amendments say. If this Authority were to set itself up as merely a common carrier and if it were merely to be the national vehicle for transportation on land of oil and gas, the Opposition would not oppose it; in fact, as the right honourable  member  for Higgins said, we could all congratulate the Minister on proposing such an authority. I would be thankful if the Minister stated unequivocally that all that is intended is that the Authority be and act as a common carrier. I challenge the Minister to declare during this debate that that is the sole purpose, of this Authority. 
However simple the Bill may seem when one reads it, one would be excused for doubting that that is the sole purpose behind it. Simplicity may be a virtue; but, of course, simplicity may be deceptive. That is the real message that comes out of both the Bill and the Minister's second reading speech.  His  speech, after all, fills only one. page in Hansard on a Bill which is said to be a matter of major national importance. Clause 13 of the Bill speaks of the functions of the Authority being to construct pipelines for the conveyance of petroleum and to convey through the pipeline petroleum belonging to the Authority or to other persons. If the Authority were to be only a common carrier, all it would need to have would be the functions of constructing pipelines and conveying the gas and oil through those pipelines. However, the clause goes on to say that the Authority is to have the power to buy and sell petroleum, whether in Australia or elsewhere. Is it intended then that the Pipeline Authority is to be an importer of oil and gas? If oil or gas is not purchased within Australia but is purchased elsewhere, I would have thought it obvious that that would be from some overseas source. 
It is notorious that Australia produces only  a  light crude oil and does not produce a heavy crude oil, which must be imported from the Middle East. Is it intended that this 
Pipeline Authority should buy heavy crude oil overseas, import it into Australia, transport il through its pipelines and then sell it? The words 'buy and sell' are, very simple, but again very deceptive. The word 'sell' is plain enough. The honourable member for Blaxland said that it is intended only that the Authority should act as a reticulator of gas or oil. But, of course, it need not stop there. To sell can mean literally to sell through the bowser Is it the intention that the Authority, under the incidental powers given to it by clause 15, should construct distribution points or petrol service, stations and go into the selling of petroleum through the bowser? Is it intended that the Authority should set itself up as a distributor of bottled gas, for example, and go into the selling business through all the distribution outlets necessary? These words, buy and sell', are so simple, yet so deceptive, and they carry far reaching implications. 
This Bill and the Pipeline Authority are another piece to be fitted into the jigsaw puzzle of the actions of this Government and the ramifications of those actions throughout the petroleum industry. Already we have seen the freezing off of overseas funds coming into Australia to support exploration, both presently embarked upon and planned for the future, through the use of exchange control powers by the Commonwealth to control the inflow of funds. We have seen the control over farm-ins that the Government is using again to freeze out any joint ventures between overseas and local companies. The Minister has made a statement about the National Fuel and energy authority, but we have not yet seen a Bill to create it. He says that the Authority would explore for, produce, transport and refine petroleum. We have now had the removal of tax incentives for the raising of equity funds. The removal of those tax incentives will hit, amongst others, bona fide Australian exploration companies. We have heard the Minister announce that it is intended to remove petroleum search subsidies. So all the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle are beginning to fit into place. When one looks at what is being done - the use of these executive powers of the Commonwealth plus the legislation that it is now introducing - one can see that these are intended to implement the socialistic policies of this Government aimed at nationalisation of this industry. 
The honourable member for Blaxland spoke of the Pipeline Authority having to be able to buy wholesale and then sell to the distributor at the end. Is it intended to buy wholesale at the well-head from both on-shore and off-shore producers? If it is intended to buy at the well-head, this Authority could hold the producer to ransom by offering to pay only a low price, because the producer would not be allowed to transport its oil or gas through the pipelines of the Authority. So the Authority would have a monopoly power of the most insidious kind. The people of Australia must ask themselves whether they want this kind of control of the petroleum industry in Australia in the high sounding name of 'national interest', or in the  high sounding name of 'maximising Austalian ownership'. To the Government 'Australian ownership' quite obviously means government ownership. To the Liberal Party Australian ownership' means ownership by the people, and 'the people' means the individuals - you and I,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - the public, the people as individuals, privately or as shareholders in a company. This is where the Government and the Opposition draw their battle lines. 
If the Government by 'maximising Australian ownership' means that it will provide for a national pipeline grid as a means of transportation in the same way as railways are a means of transportation for the goods of individuals, the Opposition would have no objection to it. In fact the Opposition would congratulate the Minister. It would say that the Minister was emulating Andrew Fisher when he brought to Australia the intercontinental railway, bridging the great distance of Australia. If that were the sole intention of the Minister, the Opposition would have no hesitation in supporting him. But honourable members on this side of the chamber see something insidious in this proposition coupled with the other policies that have been espoused by the Minister. 
Let us look for a moment at Western Australia and at one other fallacy upon which this Government proceeds. The Government thinks that the producing companies, the private companies - be they overseas or Australian - would have some great objection to a national grid system. They would have no objection to it because it would provide them with a means of transportation for their product. It would allow them to expand the opportunities to market and sell their gas and oil. So this Government need not delude itself about that any more. There is mention in the Minister's speech of a proposal to build a pipeline between Palm Valley and the Kalgoorlie mineral province and Perth, and also from Palm Valley to Dampier. There is no factual support in the speech or in anything in which the Minister has said inside or outside the Parliament to justify such a concept at this stage. It is a quite stupid proposition to think about at the present time. At present there is no overall energy crisis or shortage in the eastern States. The Bass Strait, Gidgealpa and Roma gas fields have sufficient reserves to supply the south-eastern seaboard for at least 30 years without taking into account the unlikely event that no further discoveries are made in these areas. If there is a 30-year supply of natural gas from those fields, what is the purpose of putting a pipeline from Palm Valley to Dampier or from Palm Valley to Perth? There is just no purpose at all in such a proposition. It makes no sense to say that we will build a pipeline at a cost of perhaps $ 1,000m or so, spanning thousands of miles of desert country, merely to cover the unlikely event that there will be such a catastrophe on the eastern seaboard that none of the gas fields there will bs able to supply Sydney and Melbourne. Is it the intention of the Government, in putting forward this proposition, to bottle up the oil and gas discoveries on the north-west shelf for 20, 30 or 40 years because it thinks that the reserves may be required by users on the eastern seaboard? 
When the national interest is referred to and when the Australian people are mentioned in a debate of this kind one must think of the people. I speak for the people of Western Australia. They want to know why the Minister proposes to construct a pipeline to take gas from Dampier to Sydney or to Melbourne? Why do this when that gas and oil can be the basis for an immense industry in its own right, for example, a petroleum industry or a liquefied natural gas export industry? That gas and oil used as a fuel could support industries not only in the Pilbara but also down in the southern part of Western Australia. Why is it that the Minister and the Government who have pronounced so loudly their national outlook do not consider the construction of a pipeline from Dampier to Perth? That would be much more logical than the proposal to put a pipeline from Dampier to Palm Valley, traversing country in which there is no local consumption whatsoever to support the cost of transporting the product. One might ask why they have not considered a pipeline from Dampier to Perth when New South Wales has massive untapped quantities of black coal which can be used as an energy source. New South Wales has massive quantities at the doorstep of Sydney and also at the doorstep of the Minister's own electorate of Cunningham. 
I ask the Minister whether as a part of the fuel and energy budget that he is proposing there has been any investigation of the use of the coal of Queensland and New South Wales for energy generation in those States. Would it be cheaper to use fossil fuels which are at your doorstep than to transport other fuels across the continent instead of using them for the development of Western Australia? What part do the discoveries on the north-west shelf play in the fuel and energy budget proposed by the Minister? 
This Bill has certainly created divisions in different sections of this House. It is a Bill upon which people speak with honesty and integrity, and those who speak in that way must be respected for the stand they take. I was gratified to hear the way in which the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  spoke when they supported the Bill. It was totally consistent with stands they have taken over the years. The right honourable member for Higgins sought to adopt his stand on what he saw as the national interest of Australia. All of us in one way or another, when we speak on a particular Bill - particularly a Bill of this kind - seek to support what we say in terms of the national interest. So it is not unusual that one person should adopt a different view of the national interest from another person. My view of the national interest is different from that of the right honourable member for Higgins and, more so, the view of the national interest that is taken by Government supporters. When Government supporters speak of the concept of the national interest I wonder whether they are speaking politically or whether they are speaking in terms of the people whom a Bill like this will affect. I look at the Bill to discover how it will affect people. When we speak of States and States' rights I sometimes feel that we forget the people who live in particular places. There should be no condemnation of a person who says that he seeks to represent people in a particular place and so uphold a point of view because what he sees as happening will affect their vital interests detrimentally. That is the way in which I look at this Bill because it does affect the people of Western Australia in a most vital way. Where it affects people we can invoke the national interest on their behalf. To me the 2 things are synonymous because people make up a nation. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Kiilen)  said that it does no harm at all to be involved in hard argument on a matter of this kind. Certainly it does not. I am grateful that I have been able to have hard argument with the honourable member, that he has been able to take the stand he has taken and that I have been able to take the stand that I have taken. This Parliament is a better place for it. I ask the House to look at the Bill in this way: We have heard a great deal about the need for the States and the Commonwealth to get together to agree, but if this Bill is considered as affecting people wherever they live, let us take our minds back to the time of Federation. What happened then? It was hard argument that created this great Federation and this great nation. It took years of effort and reason, years of argument and compromise until the people wherever they lived had a unified spirit to create a new nation. 
At that time, the land mass of Australia was not considered to go beyond the low water mark, or perhaps 3 miles out from the low water mark. This was the area of concern to the people of Australia then, because they lived on shore. The search for minerals was conducted on shore. They farmed on shore and when they fished, they might go a mile or so off shore to catch a few fish. It has taken about 50 years for the people of Australia and the world to realise that off the great land masses and under the seas there is wealth. That is why people explore the sea bed. They explore it because there is wealth to be found there. Wells have to be drilled? there is oil or gas to be drawn up and converted into wealth for the benefit of the people who live on the land masses. 1 ask honourable members to bear that in mind when considering this Bill. Is it any wonder that people in the different parts of Australia are concerned when a government - not being the government which affects them directly - seeks to control absolutely the wealth that can be drawn from off their shores? Of course, when it is put in this way one would expect the people of Queensland to react in the way in which they have reacted. The same is true of the people of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia. Make no mistake - this Bill is not one that affects only the people of Western Australia or Queensland. After listening to honourable members opposite one would think that only Queenslanders and Western Australians are affected, but the continental shelf spreads right around the coast of Australia. The prospects of wealth being drawn off-shore may be as great for New South Wales as they are for Western Australia. I say that they may be, because the off-shore continental shelf of New South Wales has not been explored in the same way as the north-west shelf of Western Australia. 
This Bill seeks to declare unilaterally by this Parliament that the Commonwealth has sovereignty over the territorial sea and the sea bed that hes underneath it. What is sovereignty? It ls a political concept which, when looked at fundamentally, has legal ramifications touching on international law. Certainly the subjects about which the honourable member for Moreton spoke, relating to the law of the sea, have ramifications flowing from the concept of sovereignty. Certainly on the international scene they have to be worked out in their own way, but so far as concerns Australia it is undoubted that the 
Commonwealth Government is the Government of this nation which has international legal personality and it does this by invoking the external affairs power under the Constitution. 
When we talk about the boundary between Papua New Guinea and Queensland and about inland waters and historic bays, these are matters on which the Commonwealth has constitutional power. The argument is put that the High Court of Australia is the appropriate legal authority to sort out the question of sovereignty but I suggest that when the High Court is invoked, in truth the Government is asking it to act as a legal arbitrator upon a political question. When that idea is grasped I think the people of Australia will appreciate that this measure involves political policy. Various speakers have referred to what the High Court might do but they have sought to prejudge the decision of the High Court in justification of their own arguments. That then is the most empty argument of all. 
I suggest that Australians should get the record straight on what the Government is seeking to do by this Bill. It is an act pf political policy. To me the States are not geographical areas defined by lines on a map. The States are people and an act of political policy affects people. Have not the people of Western Australia a vital interest in the future of this Bill and in the waters that lap their shores? Have they not a vital interest in the minerals that lie on the sea bed or the petroleum that is being discovered off their coast? I put the simple proposition to the people of Australia that the sedimentary basins of Australia containing petroleum start on-shore. They simply move away from the coast and under the sea. 
The States have complete control over exploration for petroleum and minerals onshore. Is there any reason why they should not participate in control and regulation of the sedimentary basins that merely move under the sea from the land? It is a simple proposition and I suggest that if it is put to the people of Australia they will give a very quick and simple answer. They will claim a say in what happens beyond the low water mark under the sea just off their shores. It is a simple proposition to grasp and it affects every State. Would not the Victorians want to have a say in the development of the Bass Strait oil and gas fields? Would not the people of New South Wales want a say in the continental shelf off Sydney? Would not the Queenslanders want a say in the continental shelf that lies off their shore? Similarly with South Australians. I do not see any reason why the people, wherever they live, should not have a say. That is what the amendment seeks to tell the people of Australia - that this Bill in truth is cutting them off from any participation in that development. Of course, the Government invokes the national interest in this. But when it is seen that this Bill is nothing more than an act of political policy, one must look at the Bill in the context of the whole platform and policies of the Government. I am indebted to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  for acknowledging this by saying that this Bill is a part of the resource policy of the Government. Of course it is. One has only to look at the platform of the Australian Labor Party and the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  to see that this is what it is. It is one of those actions taken by this Government to implement the resource policy of the Government. I could relate them very quickly. They include such actions as the use of exchange controls to restrict overseas borrowing to support exploration in Australia; the use of the export control power to control the export of minerals, including petroleum; the removal of tax incentives for the raising of risk capital; the removal of petroleum subsidies to explorers; the instigation of a national fuel and energy authority; the implementation of a national pipeline authority; and, now, the last piece in the jigsaw, the last act to put the lid, as it were, on the resource policy of this Government has been to introduce this Bill. 
One can see the matter traced quite easily. I refer firstly to the speech by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  when this Bill was being discussed in May last year. He put as the primary reason for the Opposition's support of the BUI then that it gave effect to the resource policy of the Opposition, as it was. I refer to an article in the 'Australian' of 16th May by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. It is headed 'How Labor moved into minerals'. The Minister stated: 
The 1971 Launceston Conference of the Australian Labor Party laid down the basic platform for Australian resource development for a Labor Government. 
These broad policies are now being implemented by the new Labor Government 
He then goes on to relate some of the actions to which I have already referred. Right in the heart of these actions, which the Minister says are aimed at implementing this resource policy, is this: 
Cabinet has . . . Directed the Attorney-General's Department to draft legislation to assert sovereignty over minerals in the Australian continental shelf from the low water mark out. 
I refer honourable members to the next statement by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. This is the statement that he made in the House on Federal petroleum search policy. The Minister stated: 
In off-shore petroleum exploration, there is undoubted Commonwealth sovereignty, and I will be asking Government approval for appropriate legislation for the establishment of a national petroleum and minerals authority at an early date. Such an authority would explore, produce, transport and refine petroleum. 
Then we have in this Bill the declaration in Part II of sovereignty in the Commonwealth over minerals that lie on the sea bed off-shore of Australia. In the second reading speech of the Minister, he rnakes quite ' clear that the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and the agreement between the States giving effect to that legislation is part and parcel of his concept of a resource policy. 
The Minister says, as has been pointed out by another honourable member in this debate, that that legislation and that' agreement will continue to operate for the present and he repeats that again in a later part of his second reading speech. So, what are we to gather from this? Are we to assume that the Government will at some later time seek to amend or perhaps repeal this Bill by which it unilaterally declares its sovereignty over off-shore areas. WU1 the BUI be amended so that the Commonwealth Will have complete control over off-shore petroleum resources? It must be realised that, at present, control of those resources is given to the States of Australia by way of the designated authority, being in each case, the Minister for Mines of the State. So, the Minister for Mines can say who gets an exploration permit and who may, if he discovers oil or gas, produce from that permit. 
Of course this is of vital interest to the people in each of the States. It is of vital interest to the people who live on the shore because, by that legislation, they can have a say in who explores, who develops and where the development will take place.. When one realises the wealth that can be produced from oil and gas, one can understand why it is a matter of concern that people should want to have a say in the destiny of their own State. This is what I want to see for the people of Western Australia and that is why it seems fundamental to me that, when we live in a federation which is a federation of people as much as of States, those people should have a say in the wealth that is produced from the sea bed that lies off their shore. But this Government is denying that participation to the people by the Bill that it is seeking to have implemented. 
What can be wrong with seeking agreement in an area of this kind in the same way as our founding fathers sought agreement to create a new nation? There is nothing different in concept in this. I would have thought that with all the aspirations of the present Government, it would seek to instil a national unity of that kind in the people rather than create the divisions of the kind which this Bill has so drastically done. But no, the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Government have no thought of that. The Government simply seeks to maintain in a unilateral declaration its sovereignty and it says: 'Well, if you want to argue this, you go away and fight'. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Has any study been made within or on behalf of the Government to determine whether or not there are any advantages or benefits in a system of long term leasehold tenure over the established system of freehold ownership of land. 
If so, will he, in the interests of open government, make the results of the study public. 
Why is it proposed that private land development in the Albury-Wodonga project will, as a general rule, be by long term leasehold tenure rather than freehold ownership. 
By what criteria will circumstances be judged exceptional in a determination by the development corporation not to develop land by way of long term leasehold tenure. 
In the case of exceptional circumstances, what form of land holding, alternative to long term leasehold tenure, would the development corporation be authorised to adopt. 
Here it is, five past four on the last day of this session of Parliament, and on a matter which the Government has said is one of major importance it has introduced a number of most significant amendments to the Bill. It is quite unacceptable to the Opposition that those amendments should be introduced in this way. We have had the second reading speech and debates on this Bill in the House. It has been through the Senate. Government supporters in the Senate have put forward the Government's propositions and views there. Now, when it has come back to this Chamber, we have to consider these amendments which, as has already been pointed out, have far ranging significance and the widest ramifications for the petroleum industry in Australia - not only for the industry itself, but also for the consumers, the people of Australia, about whom we hear so much said, supposedly on their behalf, by this Government 
These amendments brought down at this time are really nothing more than a shoddy political trick. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  said that these amendments were introduced to show to the Senate the full range and scope of the functions of the Pipeline Authority. If it is necessary to introduce "these amendments now, how much more necessary was it that they should have been placed before this chamber right at the outset of the discussion on this Bill? To do so now at a time when debating time and time for consideration is so limited can, as I have said, be described as nothing more than a shoddy political trick. The extent to which it can be so described has been demonstrated by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  He pointed out that in the Minister's second reading speech he referred to the Authority as being a common carrier. Likewise, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who is now about to leave the chamber, at page 2195 of Hansard of 16 May said: 
Honourable members opposite talk about setting up this massive investment in an authority. But the authority will act only as a common carrier to carry the gas of some private company. 
I should like the Minister and the honourable member for Blaxland to acknowledge publicly that that is the purpose and primary function for which this Authority is being set up; to act only as a common carrier to carry the gas of some private company. The Minister should also acknowledge that in all that he said this afternoon he denied that statement by one of his own colleagues who I assure honourable members is his protege - the one who hangs to the Minister's coat tails like no other back bench member in this place. 
I quoted from page 2195 of Hansard. I assure honourable members that I did not quote out of context. I quoted the words that were used. The amendments are proposed to be added to the clause of the Bill which expresses the functions of the Authority. I have driven the honourable member for Blaxland out of the House. Quite obviously he cannot take it. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  continually tells this House and the public that the Budget is only one part in the Government's overall economic strategy to manage the economy. From having read the Budget it is quite apparently not a significant part of the Government's strategy. We are also continually told by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Treasurer tha', inflation is the most serious economic matter commanding the attention of the Government. But even the merest look at the Budget shows that the Treasurer does not see it as a significant economic tool for combating inflation. There is very good reason for this. From the total perspective of monetary legislative and fiscal actions taken by this Government and the 2-man Whitlam-Barnard Government since 2 December the inescapable conclusion is that as an act of deliberate political policy the Budget was not intended to dampen or to curb inflation. In fact the inescapable conclusion, I believe, is that this Government, in order to finance the massive increase in Government spending has deliberately relied upon an accelerated rate of inflation in the Australian economy. 
When the 2-man Government that I have mentioned came to power inflation as indicated by the consumer price index was diminishing and was then at an annual rale of 4.8 per cent. Within 4 months the index had accelerated, by the end of the March quarter, to an annual rate of increase of 8.4 per cent. By the June quarter it had increased even further to an annual rate of 13.2 per cent. Some might argue that the consumer price index is not a true indicator of inflation in the community; but it is one which the people know and which they recognise. 
This Government can be .seen as having deliberately embarked on a policy of inflation to finance the social programs which it so proudly trumpeted to the world. Without inflation those programs could not be financed. This Government has deliberately allowed the Australian economy to reach a lew plateau of inflation. This has been done is a calculated act of government policy. The December action of appreciating the Australian dollar by 7.05 per cent was taken quite obviously in the knowledge that inflation would accelerate under a Labor Government. AH the public statements of the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  when speaking of inflation, speak of an 'acceptable' rate of inflation but never has any of them had the stomach to tell the Australian people what rate of inflation they believe to be acceptable. 
Immediately this Government came to office it embarked upon a deliberate policy of higher wages. By calculated actions it allowed wages in the private and public sectors to run away uncontrolled. We have often heard the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  speak of the Commonwealth Public Service as being the pace setter of wages and conditions of employment. The inevitable result has been an accelerating and compounding effect upon the whole of the cost structure of the Australian economy. But when the election statements of the Prime Minister are remembered - when he said often enough that the Australian Labor Party's spending programs would be financed out of Government revenue without any increase in taxation - and when one sees now in the Treasurer's Budget Speech the statement that it is necessary that the increase in outlays budgeted for be more than covered by increased receipts; when it is realised that the runaway wage increases inevitably move wage and salary earners into higher progressive tax brackets with a corresponding amount of income tax paid into the Treasury; and when the swelling effect this has on Government revenue is observed, there is again an inescapable conclusion that this Government actively sponsored in the Public Service, in the national wage case and in its dealings with unions, an inflation of wage and salary earnings in Australia and that the sponsorship was for the purpose of providing the increased receipts necessary for the Treasury to receive in order to cover the massive increases proposed in the Budget spending. 
These actions happened too soon in December 1972 and following, not to be capable of identification as calculated, deliberate acts to foster inflation. It has been said of any government which in post-war times uses unemployment as an economic weapon or tool to manage the economy that it must be an evil government. I heard that description a number of times from one supporter of the present Labor Government. It can equally be said - I say it of the present Government - that any government which uses inflation as a deliberate act of policy to support its spending programs is equally an evil government. The present effects of inflation upon the people are not so dramatic, not so publicly evident, as the sight of a man or woman on the dole but they are no less insidious and no less damaging to the individual and the nation. 
I can view with only the utmost scepticism and observe as the sheerest hypocrisy the kind of statements that we heard from the Prime Minister over the weekend in announcing the policy of putting the Reserve Bank into open market operations deliberately to force up interest rates. 
I am sure that he did not. In fact, the example that we saw this morning of the Prime Minister trying to give us all a lecture on elementary economics showed how difficult that job is for him. But this deliberate policy of the Government in putting the Reserve Bank into those open market operations, knowing that that action will at best be a short term palliative but must inevitably lead to further inflation as it runs through the whole economy, shows this Government for what it is. The Prime Minister is well known for his lack of economic knowledge and understanding. We saw in question time this morning, as I have just mentioned, how he refused to pad up to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and passed the bat to the Treasurer. Later we saw his exercise in incompetence in his bumbling attempt to explain to the House what he acknowledged to be elementary principles of bond raising in Australia. 
It has been rightly said by the Leader of the Opposition that this Budget is expansionary and inflationary. If any more proof be required than the penetrating analysis of the Budget by the Leader of the Opposition, the Government's own actions last weekend in further revaluing the Australian dollar and deliberately forcing up the interest structure supplies the necessary proof. If the Budget had been truly antiinflationary those actions would not have been necessary. The Budget itself took no fiscal action necessary to curb the obvious inflationary forces operating in the economy. I quote from the Treasurer's Budget Speech. He said: 
The Budget too must fit into the overall antiinflationary .policy. 
That must be one of the most laughable statements ever to come from a Treasurer. He continued: 
With that in mind the Government came to 2 major conclusions. 
First, despite competing demands for resources, the whole thesis of the Government's policies requires that there be some increase in the share of resources going to the public sector. 
Secondly, given the need to avoid adding, to net pressure on resources, it is necessary that the increase in outlays budgeted for be more than covered by increased receipts. 
Those statements by the Treasurer bear out what I said earlier, that this Government was committed to a massive increase in public sector spending and that in itself is inflationary. It is one of those elementary things of which the Prime Minister is ignorant and, it would seem now, also the Treasurer. Therefore, the Government had to take anti-inflationary action outside the Budget but, and this point cannot be over-emphasised to the people of Australia, none of the action taken by this Government either last weekend or in the months before can return Australia to the pre-election rate of inflation, diminishing as it demonstrably was at that time. 
Australians must come to terms with the fact that this Goverenment deliberately sees the economy as moving on to a new plateau of inflation. All the so-called anti-inflationary action by this Government has been on the monetary side. It started with the currency realignment in December and the appreciation of the Australian dollar, then by the Government in February refusing to follow the United States dollar down, the control over inflow of overseas funds, the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut and the further 5 per cent revaluation of the Australian dollar last, weekend. Now we have the lifting of domestic interest rates. The Government speaks little of its Prices Justification Tribunal as a real weapon against inflation. That is openly acknowledged by commentators and economists, as well as politicians with vested interests, to be a toothless paper tiger. The Joint Select Committee on Prices can only be even less effective. It will be a watchdog no better than a yapping Pekingese. By no stretch of the imagination can we recognise in the  Chairman  of that Committee, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  a Winston Churchill in command of a British bulldog.  Mr McLeay-  Without any teeth. 
Without any teeth, as my colleague said. The picture is now clear. It is an ominous one for the private sector, for businessmen big and small, from the major corporations to the self-employed man or woman. This Government has put the squeeze on business like no other government in Australia's history. All the fanfare, all the glib propaganda by the Prime Minister to the business community throughout  1972  telling them that his Party was and his Government would be a friend of business, that they had nothing to fear from him, can be seen for what it is, a loud sound coming forth from an empty vessel. If any businessman in Australia today was prepared to trust the Whitlam Government when it came to office he surely cannot trust it now. 
This Government has openly said that it will not try to control at any level union demands, within the private or public sectors, for increased wages and salaries or for increased working conditions which inflate costs. All the controls, all the monetary and fiscal actions of this Government, are directed squarely at private business -and the ordinary working man, as has been shown by other speakers from the Opposition side. It is the family man who is hurt by this Budget and this has been amply demonstrated by speakers from the Opposition side. Ironically it was the London stock market and the financial writers of London newspapers who realised, before Australians just what this Budget did to them coming on top of all earlier actions. Australian stocks on the London market were mauled overnight. The full implication for business of the actions of this Government came home to Australians only by the events of this last weekend. Australian stock markets then were devastated. 
The Treasurer in his first Budget was caught in a political straightjacket.  His  Government was committed to an array of social programs requiring massive expenditure. They had to be put into effect irrespective of the current economic climate. The Government has been so anxious to show itself as a government of action and an instrument of radical reform that it has rushed headlong into the most disastrous disruption and dislocation of the economy Australia has ever seen. It is worse than anything that happened during  23  years of Liberal-Country Party Government. The Treasurer is another political casualty at the hands of the Prime Minister, caught as he is between the Treasury on the one hand, which is committed to sound, non-inflationary economic management and which recognises the inflation fed by this Budget, and, on the other hand, the commitment of a Prime Minister, whose economics have always been suspect, to a program for an instant political porridge of policies requiring a massive increase in public sector spending. This course is the very antithesis of sound economic management when introduced into an economy known to be under stress and under intense inflationary pressure. The Treasury recognised this in its statement No.  2  when it said: 
The  overriding consideration  in framing the Budget was that the economy at the outset of 1973-74 was already under stress, with inflation the dominant worry. The major problem, therefore, was one of ensuring that the  diversion  of resources  to the  public sector needed to get major programs under way did not add to total demand pressures. 
The size of the transfer of resources from the private to the public sector must in itself amount to a serious and sudden dislocation of business as well as an impetus to existing inflation. The size of that transfer can probably best be judged and measured by the  2  sectors, private and public, as a proportion of gross domestic product and by assessing the change on a year to year basis. The Budget Papers indicate the size of this transfer, firstly in the rate of growth in total Budget outlays from an annual average between  1963-64  and  1972-73  of  10.3  per cent to  14.3  per cent in  1972-73  and to an estimated  19.3  per cent in the current year. This is a record, as was said by one of my colleagues. Similar trends are evident in regard to Government receipts. During the  10  years ending  1971-72  receipts increased at an average annual rate of  10.7  per cent. In  1972-73  they increased by  6.4  per cent and in the current year under this Budget it is estimated that they will increase by  20.6  per cent. 
That the public sector growth rate is likely to increase as a proportion of gross domestic product is confirmed by the estimated growth of the public sector of around 20 per cent compared with one unofficial estimate of the increase in the gross domestic product in 1973-74 of around 13 per cent. Combined with the monetary actions that I have already mentioned directed straight at the private sector, this transfer of resources from the private to the public sector must have a serious and dislocating effect upon industry in Australia. Business can see then that :t has been caught in a deadly squeeze by this Government, a squeeze which is insidious in its perception, relentless in its application and destructive in its operation. We have seen 2 further actions taken over the weekend, 2 actions that could be foreshadowed if the sole area of action that this Government has dealt in since it was elected were followed the credit squeeze and the move against food prices, particularly meat. What more can the Government do? What then after the effects of the squeeze and the action taken against meat? All that is left for this Government now is the area of wage inflation. That area is totally untouched by a Government which has now exhausted all the monetary action that it could take. The Treasurer cannot much longer ignore this area. He has been known to say that through the arbitration system there is a system of wage justification which provides sufficient control over wage increases but he must know, as the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  must know, that that is not true because wages are open-ended in the over award rate area which the militant unions enter so rapidly. 
The Treasurer obviously needs the continuing inflationary stimulus of a 13 per cent rise in average earnings to provide him with the receipts which he needs to cover his outlays in the Budget, but does he really believe that such a rate of increase in earnings is not inflationary? Is 10 per cent - the figure mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  - the new plateau of inflation accepted by the Treasurer, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry? It is the height of political hypocrisy and the quintessence of economic sophistry for the Treasurer to ignore the inflationary effects of the earnings rise which his Budget relies upon - an earnings rise of 13 per cent. 
What Australia needs is to produce itself into prosperity. Australia cannot inflate itself into prosperity, but that is the fallacy upon which this Budget proceeds and upon which the Treasurer, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Overseas Trade proceed. 
Is the Treasurer aware of reports from Kalgoorlie, which appeared in the 'West Australian' of yesterday, 12 September, of the sacking of 30 men by a Kalgoorlie mining company, North Kalgurli Mines Ltd, and the review of development plans by the largest miner on the goldfields, Kalgoorlie-Lake View, both of which actions are said by the companies to be the direct and immediate result of the Treasurer's Budget decisions affecting gold mining? Does the Treasurer now realise the serious and damaging effect of his Budget decisions on the future of Kalgoorlie? Will he therefore urgently review those decisions with the object of revoking them? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
This has been a strange debate. I have sat here and listened to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  say at the beginning of his remarks that abuse is no argument and then proceed to heap more abuse on the Opposition than we have heard in the House for a long time. Then the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  bought into the debate and tried to heap further abuse. The tragedy of the honourable member for Blaxland is that a man of such obviously immense prospects in the Government can so debase himself as to allow himself to be but the lackey of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. He cannot even pronounce the name Paraburdoo' properly. 
Let it be made clear to the public that this Government has not established one new viable proposition in the minerals industry. The great increases in production and export income of which the Minister and the honourable member for Blaxland have spoken have all resulted from development which occurred during the life of the previous Government. The Minister would not know how to embark upon the establishment of an enterprise as large as the exploration of the iron ore fields in the north-west of Western Australia. The Minister would not know how to embark upon oil and gas exploration to the extent that it has been going on in the north-west of Western Australia. He would not have the first idea of the technology needed to explore offshore. Yet this Minister attempts to take the credit for it. 
The abysmal ignorance of the honourable member for Blaxland is to be seen in his single statement that the extractive industries do not need to explore any more. What abysmal ignorance when it is said, for example, against the statement that the oil reserves of Australia will last for 8 years. That means that this country needs to carry on all the exploration that it can, whether it be done by overseas companies joining in partnership with Australian companies or by Australian companies themselves. It will not come as a result of the actions of a government such as we have and the actions of a Minister such as we have. Abuse is heaped upon overseas companies. But let it be clear that the Liberal Party recognises the "value which overseas companies can introduce into Australia in terms of money, technology and experience. The national interest of Australia will be served by giving those companies incentives to come to Australia and to explore, so that we can identify the oil and gas reserves that we require. At the same time we should let those companies know the guidelines for action which Australia considers are necessary to protect the Australian national interest. (Quorum formed.) 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  never ceases to amaze me. The speeches that he makes are- 
He is an amazing fellow in what he can really draw out to press his argument, but the points are all so empty that I wonder that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  allows him to speak. The strangest thing of all is that whenever the Minister for Minerals and Energy, who is at the table, is there we can always find his lackey sitting in the back benches, and so it is tonight. He has continued to call a few people on this side of the chamber a few names, but that will not worry anybody. I am reminded by my colleague of a saying that comes from mainland China: You can always tell that you are out in front when the mob starts to throw stones. I suggest that the honourable member for Blaxland should remember that and maybe he will shut his mouth and sit down much earlier than he did this time. 
On another point, the honourable member for Blaxland said that he has a copy of a speech that was not delivered. He has assured the House that he did not get it from the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I think that the House ought to be told from where the honourable member got the document. I think the honourable member ought to tell the House where he got the document. 
I have no doubt that that is quite correct but I am equally without doubt that there are many honourable members in this House tonight who, having heard the honourable member for Blaxland, will want to know where he got this document. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who preceded the honourable member for Blaxland gave us a most erudite exposition of American law. I just wonder what relevance that has to the Australian Constitution and the particular document before the House. I am greatly indebted for all the learning that has gone into this exposition and the manner in which it has been delivered and the erudition that it displays but I wondered to myself as I listened whether the honourable member for Hawker had done all the investigation or whether it had been written by someone else. But I thought that, having displayed that erudition, he should at least have been aware for example of how the influence of the American Constitution upon Australian constitutional law was put to rest by  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, in the Engineers case in the early 1920s, when the decision of the United States Supreme Court in McCulloch v. Maryland - a decision delivered by one of the most famous chief justices of the United States Court, Chief Justice Marshall - was clearly decided by the High Court of Australia to have no relevance to the interpretation of the Australian Constitution. I would think equally today that none of the law exposed to this House by the honourable member for Hawker has any relevance to the question of sovereignty over territorial waters or the continental shelf. So, let us put it aside and forget it, and next time the honourable member for Hawker may come forward with a better argument. 
The honourable member for Farrar  (Mr Fairbairn)  clearly said that the question of sovereignty is not in issue in this debate. What is in issue is Part III, dealing with the minerals code. I wonder sometimes at honourable members opposite when they talk about how the High Court is being denied the opportunity of resolving this great constitutional question of sovereignty because, in his second reading speech, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  said: 
The objective of the Bill, as announced by His Excellency the Governor-General in his Speech at the opening of the twenty-eighth Parliament is to remove any doubt about the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to sovereign control over the resources of. the sea bed . . . 
So the Government believes that by this piece of legislation it can remove any doubt whatsoever, and the clear implication from that is that the Government does not need the assistance of the High Court, and of course with the benefit of the erudition of the honourable member for Hawker, naturally it does not need the benefit of the High Court to decide the question of sovereignty. 
But then we have the arguments that came forth from both the honourable member for Blaxland and the honourable member for Hawker, that we on this side are denying to the High Court the opportunity of resolving this question. I would have thought that the clear way to resolve what is a political question and not a legal question is not litigation but negotiation and co-operation and if there is one thing that has come out of the speech of the honourable member for Hawker, it is that litigation is a fruitless exercise, and we in Australia do not want to embark upon the same path as was followed in America. Again, if the honourable member for Hawker had allowed his inquiries to go beyond the University of Adelaide, he would have found that there are other legal journals which have praised the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act as an example for the world of what can be achieved when questions of competing sovereignty are involved in a Federal system. I would have thought that the national spirit which we are told so often motivates Government supporters would have demanded that the same kind of legislation be brought down to apply to manganese nodules on the sea bed as has been introduced to control exploration and exploitation of oil and gas which is under the sea bed. 
How do honourable members opposite draw a distinction between the 2 minerals? I have wondered about this because, I have looked for example, at clause 19 of the Bill before the House. Division 2 of Part III deals with the application of laws and clause 19 provides that:  . .the laws, whether written or unwritten, for the time being in force in the Australian Capital Territory ... so apply . . . 
Those laws shall apply to the territorial zone - I will use that space. I then compare that with section 9 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act which we are assured that the Government accepts and will continue to operate. The laws enforced by section 9 of that Act are the laws of a State. We have the strange situation that, in respect of activities dealing with the exploration and exploitation of oil and gas, the laws of, for example, Western Australia extended into the territorial seas and continental shelf, but under the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill the laws of the Australian Capital Territory will apply. 
I might ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy to explain to me in my humble ignorance what happens when you have an explorer exploring for manganese nodules underneath a drilling ship which is exploring for oil and gas. The laws applying to the men in the submarine exploring for manganese nodules are the laws of the Australian Capital Territory. The laws applying to the diver standing alongside him, checking the drill pipe going down into the earth are the laws of Western Australia. I would not have thought that that is good sense, more particularly when the laws enforced in the Australian Capital Territory are the laws of New South Wales, subject to any ordinances or Acts which have been introduced so as to affect them. Why on earth a Western Australian would want to be governed by the laws of New South Wales - let alone the laws of Queensland - I really do not know. Perhaps the honourable member for Blaxland can explain to me after all that babble that he went on with earlier just why this sort of thing has been allowed to happen. 
But really, in the end, there is a simple answer. In the zeal with which the Government pursues its socialist centralist policies, it cannot see beyond the end of its centralist nose, and so it cannot see beyond the laws of the Australian Capital Territory. It thinks in its wisdom that what is good for the Australian Capital Territory is good for the whole of Australia. I would not have thought that the people of Australia would want to be held in the iron band of clause 19 of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill so that right around the land mass of Australia, whatever the laws of the State are on shore, the laws of the Australian Capital Territory apply off shore in respect of exploration for manganese nodules. It has only to be stated to realise the absurdity of it. 
I say unashamedly that I am the honourable member for Stirling, which is a part of Western Australia and I say unashamedly that when a Bill of this kind comes before the House and I see this Government seeking to take unto itself complete control over exploration of the sea bed, apart from exploration for petroleum, giving no access to the people of Western Australia to the administration of what goes on off their shores, then I refute the appropriateness, the fairness, the equity and the good sense of what is proposed. 1 know that continually Government supporters justify what they are doing by saying that it is in the national interest. But I would have thought that the national interest demands just as much that the people on shore should have say in the administration of what goes on off shore. 
Again I have only to remind myself that I come from Western Australia, the State with more mineral activity, exploration and development than any other place in Australia, whether it be called a State or a region. I /remind myself that from the days of the gold rushes of the late nineteenth century we have built up a  system  of mining law and administration which has served Western Australia and Australia well in giving effect to the fullest exploration and exploitation of the mineral resources of that State. There is no need to me to elaborate - from gold to iron ore, from nickel to bauxite to oil and gas. What a benefit that has been to the whole of Australia. Why on earth it is thought that the expertise within the administration of the Department of Mines of Western Australia is not competent to extend itself off-shore I really do not know. Nothing has been shown by the Minister or either of those who have supported him to justify the Commonwealth Parliament and the Commonwealth Government establishing for itself a Federal department of mines which can only duplicate the personnel and expertise that is to be found already within Western Australia, Victoria, Queensland and all the other State administrations throughout Australia. 
I take my remarks no further. I have already spoken on this Bill when it was introduced during the autumn session. What I said then I would repeat again, but to do that would be superfluous. I think the House knows where I stand. I am sure the people of my electorate and my State know where I stand. To me there is nothing incompatible with the national interest for the State of Western Australia or any other State in Australia to participate in the administration of the mining laws to give effect to the exploration and exploitation of the mineral wealth on the sea bed of the continental shelf which surrounds Australia. I leave my remarks there because I am glad to give the opportunity to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  to say a few words. 
It is always amazing to see the sensitivity of a person in his own self-righteousness; certainly we have observed that from the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  It is always intriguing to hear repeated over and over again from the benches opposite the claim that the honourable members there are the only ones who have any concern for the union movement, union officials or union members. 
In law there are 2 old principles which can well stand application in this case. In an endeavour to bring some sense to honourable members opposite, I invite the Committee to look at those 2 principles. The first one is that when an amendment is being made to an Act one should look to see what is the mischief intended to be remedied by the amendment introduced. I have not heard from the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is at the table, what is the mischief that requires an amendment of this kind in order to bring about industrial peace. I have not heard from the honourable member for Melbourne, who also is the  President  of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party and an ex-member of the Electrical Trades Union, what mischief is intended to be remedied by this amendment. Nobody opposite has told me. Nobody opposite has told the Committee. The second very good principle that I am sure all members of the public will understand and respect is what has been referred to by my colleage, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen);  that is, the onus of proof or the burden of proof. It is referred to in glowing terms within the law as the 'golden thread' - he who seeks to prosecute, he who seeks to affirm a proposition, must establish it; he has the burden upon himself. 
Looking at the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition, I ask: What does it say, in very simple terms? Let the Committee be quite clear about this. It provides that an employer shall not dismiss an employee, injure him in his employment or alter his position to his prejudice by reason of the circumstance that the employee, being an officer, delegate or member of an organisation, has done an act which is lawful in an industrial establishment. Now, who can complain about that as a proposition coming from this side of the Committee? Many aspersions, in all the selfrighteousness of members of the Government Party, have been cast upon us. But who can deny the good sense of the proposition which states that an employer shall not dismiss or cause injury to an employee, being an officer, delegate or member of an organisation, who enters an establishment for a lawful purpose? There is nothing wrong with that provision, as I see it. So, what is the Government complaining about? We simply add one rider to this provision; that is, that the entry into the industrial establishment must be in accordance with the rules of the organisation and with an authority granted to the particular person. Again, I cannot see anything wrong with that requirement. Why does the Government cavil at it? 
As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has pointed out, one aspect that we on this side of the chamber criticise very strongly is that, under the Minister's proposal, even if a union officer, delegate or member breaks his contract of employment that person cannot be dismissed from his employment. Now, is it right and proper that a breach of a contract of employment should not authorise an employer to dismiss an employee? I should like to hear from the Government why that proposition is not sound. What is the mischief intended to be remedied by the Government's Bill? Why is the onus cast upon the employer to prove that the Act was unlawful? Why should not an employee, if he has been dismissed or injured in his employment, establish that what he was doing was lawful, was in the interests of the organisation to which he belonged and was within the authority granted to him? I think we are indebted to the honourable member for 
Moreton for showing that we have a political Fred Astaire in the Parliament by drawing to the attention of the House the proposition so soundly expressed by the Minister back in the early 1950s when he was loudly applauding the onus of proof being where it ought to be. 
That reminds me of another proposition of the Minister that under the Opposition's amendment an official could not go into an establishment even where there had been a complaint about safety, and a strike could not be called on because of some safety issue. Apparently the Minister, in all his historical understanding of the union movement, has not heard of Henry Dournes Higgins. One thing that  Mr Justice  Higgins, as he became, asserted quite clearly on behalf of the union movement was that if there is a right to strike certainly it is a right to strike over a safety issue. For the last 70-odd years not one union in the land has not asserted that right with equal force, and it has always been upheld. So it is no good for the Minister to come into the Parliament and try to use that as an argument to justify the amendment that he proposes. Nothing that the Government has said has invalidated any proposition from this side of the chamber. Nothing that has been said has shown that what the Opposition proposes is an attack upon unions or an attack upon officials of unions or members of unions. If they are doing something lawful, if they are doing it in the interests of their organisation, if they have the authority of their organisation, there is nothing that they need fear because the Act, by the amendment proposed, protects them from dismissal, protects them from injury in their employment and protects them from being prejudiced. That is the intent of the amendment and that is what we ask this Committee to accept. 
The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has outlined at some length the constructive proposals which the Opposition has towards the Bill presented by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and these will be dealt with at length in Committee. Indeed in the honourable member's speech on the second reading he has shown the reasons why, in broad outline, the Opposition is opposing various measures where it is felt that these will inhibit the role of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its conciliation and arbitration functions and inhibit the welfare of individual unionists and the employer. It is important to say that, because the Opposition is fully aware of the fact that industrial relations require a spirit of co-operation and understanding between employees and employers. The Opposition also understands that in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act there is provided a machinery for preventing and settling industrial disputes when they arise. The fundamental intention behind the legislation ought to be to bring about industrial peace. This is why the Opposition so strongly opposed the Bill introduced by the Minister in the autumn session. It was brought forward with a fanfare, which is clearly indicated by the opening words of his second reading speech when he said: 
This Bill is the first stage of a radical transformation of industrial relations in Australia. 
Of course, it was quite apparent that that radical transformation was sought to be brought about by the deletion of the bans clauses and any provisions dealing with sanctions and penalties. As the Opposition pointed out, that would have brought about a radical transformation of the arbitration system as it is known in Australia and as it has developed over the last 70 years. It is quite clear that, in the face of opposition to the Bill both in this House and in another place and the public reaction to this so called radical transformation to be introduced, the Minister was compelled to withdraw those objectionable parts of his first Bill. The Opposition is glad to&gt; see that with the Bill now before it, it can approach in a constructive way what the Minister has sought to achieve in those parts which are not affected by the- bans clauses . and the sanctions and penalties provisions. When a government embarks upon reform, what it ought to do is seek to strengthen and update the existing machinery provided by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That was not seen to be the objective behind the first Bill. 
As the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  foreshadowed, the Opposition is intrigued to know whether the Government has abandoned what it proposed in the first Bill or whether it is simply afraid to bring it forward at this stage, hoping for a double dissolution on some basis so that it can then bring it forward again. I do not think the public will be deluded by what the Government is doing, by the tactic that is being adopted by the Minister. The public will realise that the Minister realises that what he proposed was unacceptable. So we will be watching the courage of the Minister to see whether at some later stage he reintroduces those parts of his Bill. The Liberal Party policy on this Bill is quite clear. We aim to retain, continue and modernise the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act so as to fulfil a purpose in the modern industrial society in Australia today. Why should we do that? It is for a very plain and simple reason, one in respect of which I can adapt and adopt words used by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in a speech which he made with a fanfare of introduction as the policy of the then Opposition towards industrial relations. The Prime Minister pointed out that 90 per cent of the Australian workforce depends upon arbitrated decisions and industrial agreements for their incomes. If that is so, there is every good reason why the conciliation and arbitration system of Australia should be retained, maintained, strengthened and updated. This makes good sense and I am sure the public realises it. 
Under this system those in the Australian workforce and their families have had a protection for their wages, incomes and conditions of work unparalleled throughout the world. Having said that, we have to realise that Australia is a changing place and that when we look at the arbitration system we must look at it in an economy which is in a state of flux, which is fluid and changing under the impact of international stress and domestic economic pressures. In the debates which have recently been held in this House dealing with the Budget, inflation and the prices referendum Bill, it has been quite apparent that honourable members on both sides of the House appreciate that the economic structure of Australia is being changed under the impact of these stresses and pressures which I have mentioned. It is quite clear that under the impact of the inflation which is running throughout the community at the present time the arbitration system will come under increasing strain. It may well be a strain that it cannot withstand. When average weekly earnings are running at a rate of increase of 13 per cent, as has been acknowledged in the Budget, we can properly ask ourselves whether the unions, both blue and white collar, are going to look to the arbitration system to provide their members with an increase in wages sufficient to match that increase in average weekly earnings. 
In this regard I noted a statement put out by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association when it was complaining about the possibility of Caucus action to prevent its members from receiving a 16 per cent or 12 p'er cent rise in wages. It said that that increase was necessary in order to keep pace with current inflationary trends. That fact is something that unions will be fully aware of in the months ahead. The history of arbitration indicates that when inflationary trends are at such an accelerating rate the arbitration system cannot cope with them. Because of the inbuilt concepts of wage fixation it cannot cope with that rate of inflation. I think we will see within the short months ahead a much more significant degree of union activity outside the arbitration system in order to ensure that the wages of union members match the inflationary trends operating within the community. We are likely also to see leadership in this field taken over by white collar unions rather than blue collar unions. We have seen this indicated already by the rate of wage increase allowed by this Government within the Australian Public Service, and once that increase in wages run j through the Australian and State Public Services we can be sure that it will flow over into private industry. 
We will see also a movement in the workforce of emphasis away from the blue collar worker to the white collar worker so that blue collar unions will become less dominant than the white collar unions in their role within the industrial movement in Australia. This is merely to indicate some of the trends in this fluid state of the Australian economy. Those trends must be felt and reflected within the arbitration system of Australia and through industrial relations within Australia. Within a space of 2 to 5 years the arbitration system will be faced with a different national economy, one without all the economic convulsions going on at the present time but which will have worked their way through the system and through the economy. What the Government has to ensure in relation to the arbitration system is that the system is ready to operate smoothly and efficiently within this changed national economy. It must be ready to operate in a way which will satisfy the workforce in respect of both the wages policy that it espouses and the conditions of employment which it grants to the Australian workforce. 
To me this means that the Government should be looking towards a restructuring of the conciliation and arbitration system in Australia. I think it should be restructured along some of the following guidelines. Firstly, the Commission must be so structured as to be able to fulfil the purposes of providing a wages policy for the nation and satisfying conditions of employment for the work force. Secondly, the Commission must itself develop itself and be given the opportunity to develop new concepts of wage fixation and wages policy. It is of no use waiting until the economy has finally settled down. It must begin to develop those concepts now. Members on the Government side of the House would be well aware, as the Minister obviously is, of the concepts of wages policy that have been developed over the last 70 years. They ought to be equally well aware of the fact that those policies are no longer adequate to satisfy the union movement. Thirdly, in its restructured state the arbitration system must find the proper place for negotiated or bargained agreements as part of a whole coherent system. 
I have outlined those guidelines only very broadly. The Cameron proposals in this Bill are quite inadequate. All that we have is a scissors and paste job which means that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is now overburdened by piecemeal post-war amendments. These Cameron proposals can only exacerbate the serious need for an overhaul of this Act. So far as I can see this Act needs to be completely rewritten. I would like to see it rewritten in 2 ways. It may be that there would have to be 2 Acts to achieve this purpose. Firstly, there would be one Act clearly setting out the machinery for conciliation and arbitration. The Act should be simply stated, it would contain concepts which are clear and precise, devoid of legalism and great technicalities, which both sides in industrial relations can plainly see would work and would be prepared to give the Act an opportunity to work. 
Secondly, and of equal importance, there must be a labour relations code. The machinery that I envisage in this legislation would maintain the role of unions and would render conciliation even more significant than it is today. It would seek to do that by enhancing the role of conciliators, by providing them with better tools with which to do their job, and lifting the status of conciliators to that of people who can enter into effective mediation or conciliation between the two negotiating parties. I think the conciliator has to be removed from the idea of being merely a person who identifies a dispute and finds that the parties cannot agree. He must enter into the negotiation in a realistic way. The machinery must define the circumstances and the occasion for arbitration. In contrast the position under the present legislation is that the circumstances and the occasions for arbitration are haphazard and ill-defined. Finally, this machinery must clearly express the role of the public interest. In this regard the honourable member for Wannon has clearly expressed the importance that the Opposition places upon the role of the public interest in this field. We need machinery to identify the circumstances and the occasion when the public interest must be protected and when the Government or some statutory authority may intervene in its name. 
The Labour relations code that I referred to should be regarded as a charter of employees' rights in 2 respects - the rights of unionists vis-a-vis their own unions and the rights of employees vis-a-vis their employers. I believe this is an urgent task and it is not enough for the Minister, who has had many years within the union movement, merely to embark upon a scissors and paste job on the existing Act. It may be that what needs to be done cannot be achieved within the concepts of conciliation and arbitration as they appear in the Constitution. In this regard I note the comments of the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  which he made at the Aus. tralian Constitutional Convention held ii: Sydney a few weeks ago. I will read from page 165 of the official record of debates on the third day of that Convention. The Leader of the Government in the Senate said: 
The Government believes that all the limitations should be removed- 
That is, from the Constitution in respect of conciliation and arbitration as stated in section 51-  and the national Parliament should have ample plenary power over the whole question of terms and conditions of work. All those limitations, on using conciliation and arbitration - the narrowness of the concept of an industry, the concept of a dispute or the extension beyond one State - should be swept away and the plenary power that is necessary in a single national economy should be vested in the national Parliament. 
I agreed at the Constitutional Convention with the Leader of the Government in the Senate that that is necessary. But having read again what was said by the honourable senator it seems to me remarkable that what he said then in the name of the Government is now being denied by his own Caucus through its refusal to allow the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to agree to a proposal for a referendum which would give the Commonwealth power over incomes. 
For the life of me I cannot understand how the honourable senator can say on behalf of the Government that the Constitution should clothe the Commonwealth with plenary power over industrial relations, which power must include incomes, and then for his own Caucus to deny the holding of a referendum to give effect to that proposal. These are the long term matters to be considered by the Government and by this Parliament. There are a number of matters in this Bill that the Opposition will be dealing with and I will be speaking on some of them during the Committee stage. I conclude my second reading speech by reiterating that these amendments do not go far enough and I am sure that when the Opposition is in government it will be seeking to achieve what I have stated. 
We heard the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  attack and heap personal abuse upon the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  Of course, it does the Minister no good at all because he was constantly repeating himself and repetition does not improve a poor argument. The Minister spoke about a conspiracy between the Australian Country Party and the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 1 take it that, by implication, he also tried to draw the Liberal Party into that. Let us have a look at the Minister's conduct towards his own electorate, the Australian Capital Territory. We can see by the action he has taken that he, his Cabinet and Government supporters are themselves guilty of a conspiracy against those people whom the Minister is supposed to represent, a conspiracy to make the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory which is so capably represented by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  2 socialist enclaves within Australia. That is what the Minister is about. To see the truth of this one only has to look at the socialist price controls that he has foisted upon the Australian Capital Territory - he would like to do the same thing in large measure in the Northern Territory - and the controls that he is exerting over the Australian Capital Territory by withdrawing land from the people. If he has a desire to bring prices down, what ought to be done is to release on to the market as quickly as possible as much land as possible to satisfy the demand for land to build on of the people that he is supposed to represent. How hollow it is to hear the Minister for the Northern Territory going on in the way in which he did. 
One needs only to compare the actions of this Government in relation to Papua New Guinea with the paternalistic attitude that is now shown by the Minister towards these 2 areas to justify what I am saying. This Government forced Papua New Guinea along the road to self-government and independence at a speed at which the people of that country did not want to travel. They of course were looking to the time when they would be an independent nation and when they would have self-government. This Government certainly has sped them along that path. But contrast this with the attitude of this Minister towards the 2 areas under his responsibility. Is he speeding them along the path to selfgovernment or to independence as we know it within the federal system? Of course not. It is quite clear from the way he addressed himself to the House this afternoon that what he wants is to adopt a paternalistic attitude and to say: 'I am holier than thou. I know what is best for you. You do not know what is good for yourself. 
I turn now to the second reading speech of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  when introducing the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. He said: 
The purpose of this Bill - and this is its only purpose - is to provide a measure of representation for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory in the Senate. . . . 
What does the Leader of the House mean by a measure of representation'? What I would like to know and what I am sure the honourable member for the Northern Territory and the people of the Australian Capital Territory would like to know is: When are these Territories to get a full measure of representation of their area? What is a full measure of representation? Does the Minister say that 2 members in the Senate and one member in the House of Representatives is enough? Is that a full measure of representation? Is that what the Minister is saying is adequate for the people of the 2 Territories that he represents? The Minister remains mute. I can only take it from his silence that he considers that is good enough for the people of these 2 Territories. For me, it is not good enough. 
All right, but we have not heard the Minister propound any argument in favour of that. No doubt, the Minister is against that proposition, so why should I move such an amendment? By the Minister's statement he denies his own proposition that the people of the Northern Territory should be given as full a measure of representation as the people of the States of Australia. The Minister shakes his head, but I still do not hear him say anything. 
Of course it is. In addition, the Minister said: 'Why deny representation to the Australian Capital Territory which has half the population of Tasmania?' He quoted some statistics relating to representation in the Senate of 10 members and in this House of 5 members for that State, the State Parliament and the local authorities. But have we heard the Minister say that, by that comparison, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory should have at least half the degree of representation that the people of Tasmania have in the 2 Houses of this Parliament and in their State Parliament? Of course not, the reason being the paternalistic attitude of this Government towards the people of the Territories for whom the Minister is supposed to be responsible. 
Let us make a comparison. Using a word that the Minister used so freely in his speech, I refer to the hypocrisy of the attitude of this Government when one sees what it is doing in Papua New Guinea by speeding it to selfgovernment and independence and compare that with the callous attitude of the Minister towards the people of these 2 Territories. We have not heard from this Government any proposals about self-government or a higher degree of independent representation by the people of these 2 Territories. I know that a prominent, well-known member of the Liberal Party in the Australian Capital Territory has put forward his own proposals for self-government for the Australian Capital Territory. I would be interested to hear the Minister for the Capital Territory tell this House what he thinks of those proposals or, if he disagrees with them in detail, whether he has any idea that the people of the Australian Capital Territory deserve a measure of self-government as distinct from a measure of representation in the Senate. Maybe one day he will enlighten us as to his views on this question and as to how far he and his Government are prepared to go. 
Why should the Northern Territory not be moved quickly along the path towards selfgovernment? Quite clearly this Bill is a movement away from that. Clause 6 of the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill provides that 'the term of service of a senator for a Territory commences on the day of his election and expires at the close of the day next preceding the polling day for the general election of members of the House of Representatives next following his election'. Why is it that the term of service of a Territory senator should be any less than the term of service of a State senator? What is the reason for that discrimination? The reason can only be that the Minister and this Government regard these senators as second-class senators because they represent only a second-class area. Of course, all honourable members on this side of the House would deny that implication quite forcibly and completely. If these Territories ought to have representation in the Senate, the term of service ought to be at least equal to the term of service of a State senator. The only argument that the Minister for Services and Property has given us is that it is the policy of the Government that the time of election for senators and members of the 'House of Representatives should be brought together. That is no reason for cutting down by half the term of service of a Territory senator. 
It is no reason whatsover. If the Government wants to bring the 2 elections into line it can do that while still keeping the term of service a full 6-year term. I can only think that the reason for clause 6 of the Bill is that the Government does not think that the people of these 2 Territories are worth representation of a quality equal to the States' representation in the Senate. In the second reading speeches on these 2 Bills which we are dealing with in this cognate debate the Minister for Services and Property said that for the purposes of section 24 of the Constitution a Territorial senator is not to be regarded as a senator for the purpose of requiring that the number of members of the House of Representatives should be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators. If a Territory is to be given representation in the Senate why should its representative not be regarded as a senator? If the Government were genuine about giving a full measure of representation to these 2 Territories it ought to introduce into this House another constitution alteration Bill for a referendum to give the Territory senators equal status with the State senators so that for the purposes of the Constitution- 
That is quite right. This should be done so that they would have equal value before the people of this country. Along with all the other referendum proposals that are being put forward by this Government, pulled out of the hat after being put into the hat at the whim of Caucus, why is it that the Government has not thought of amending section 24 of the Constitution - if the legal advice the Government has received is good - so as to make it clear that the representative of a Territory referred to in section 24 is equal, under section 1 22, to a State senator? I call upon the Minister for Services and Property to tell us why the Government will not introduce a Bill to amend the Constitution to give to a Territorial senator status equal to that enjoyed under the Constitution by a State senator. There is no answer from the Minister now. Presumably he is not going to give us the benefit of his exquisite knowledge of the Constitution and his great desire to give representation to the people of these 2 territories. 
There is little wonder that we see in these 2 Bills a full measure of hypocrisy on the part of the Government - not a half measure but a full measure of political hypocrisy. No doubt in his deep, dark mind the Minister for Services and Property has some good political reason for increasing the representation in the way in which it is proposed. We could guess at that quite well enough, I am sure. But when one looks at what the people of these 2 territories require one can see that the Government is intent upon denying them proper representation. Let us remember that there is a clear distinction between representation in the sense of representative government, and responsible government. We know that responsible government means independence for the people so that their representatives are responsible to the people they represent for the government of the particular Territory. But how representative and how effective can Territory representatives be in the Senate or in this House? The Bill proposes 2 senators for both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory - 2 each out of 64. How effective could they be as a lobby, as an influence upon the Government or upon the Senate when a matter affecting the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory came into the Senate? 
The Minister for the Northern Territory cannot really be persuaded that but 2 senators can be an effective influence in the Senate and can effectively represent the people of the Northern Territory when a matter touching upon the Territory comes before the Senate. That brings me back to the point I made earlier that, by a deliberate choice of language, the Minister for Services and Property in introducing this Bill, spoke of a measure of representation. Quite clearly he acknowledges that it is not a full measure of representation. But nowhere does he tell this House or the people of the 2 Territories the Government's view of a full measure. I have no doubt that we will not hear from him. It is for these reasons, along with those that have been so fully and amply put by the honourable member for the Northern Territory and others on this side who have spoken that we are not satisfied with this Bill. We are nowhere near satisfied with what is proposed. It is for these and other reasons that have been earlier expressed in another place that that other place rejected these 2 Bills. They nowhere near satisfy the aspirations of the people of these 2 Territories for effective participation by them in their own government. 
The proposals put forward cannot cloud the paternalistic outlook with which this Government wants to administer these 2 Territories, saying clearly to the people that they are not able to decide for themselves what is good for them, that they must always come to the Government. Of course those people will readily and quickly appreciate that giving Senate representation of the limited kind that is given by this Bill does not necessarily involve those senators in the Government. By what I am sure is good luck the Minister for Services and Property happens to be a Minister of the Government, but the people of these 2 Territories cannot expect that by mere representation in the Senate they will be able to participate in the government of the 2 Territories. That above all things is what all people aspire to - government by themselves and for themselves so that their full aspirations may be reached. So there is every good reason to reject both these Bills. They are simply not good enough. All the personal abuse and all the personal attack that was heaped by the Minister for the Northern Territory on the honourable member for the Northern Territory serves him no good, serves the Parliament no good and certainly does not serve the people whom he is supposed to represent in Government any good. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Having regard to the Minister's statement in answer to a question on 10 October that Australia has only 8 years supply of crude' - I take it the Minister was referring to crude oil - I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that since he took office in December he has refused to allow petroleum exploration in offshore West Australian waters in at least 4 instances? Firstly a farmout by Abrolhos Oil NL and BP Petroleum Australia Pty Ltd in off-shore Dongara, Dongara being the place from which onshore natural gas for the supply of Perth comes. Secondly a farm-out on the North West Shelf to Mount Isa Mines Ltd, and thirdly 2 farmouts by West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd in its off-shore areas. Has this action of the honourable gentleman resulted in the loss of use this year of at least 3 oil rigs off the West Australian coast in prospective areas at a time when there is an urgent need in the national interest to promote exploration in order to discover and establish Australia's oil and gas reserves? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. Is the Minister aware of industrial trouble at the Hollywood Repatriation Hospital in Perth over the last week, including a 2-day strike during which patients had to look after themselves in some respects? Is the Minister aware also that the Secretary of the Western Australian branch of the Hospital Employees Federation of Australia, by coercion and intimidation is attempting to compel about 60 female hospital assistants to join that union? Will the Minister act immediately to protect these women, who are acting only in accordance with their legal rights, by issuing appropriate directions to prevent the union secretary and other unionists from intimidating these women? Will the Minister assure these women that their jobs are secure and that they will not be dismissed if they do not join the union? 
I was rather intrigued by the remarks of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  who discussed prerogative writs and the boilermakers case. Of course among the people there is a common description for those who are not lawyers but would think of themselves as lawyers or expect that they have sufficient legal knowledge to be able to expound the law. These people are described as bush lawyers. One does not have to sit in this House long to know that there are bush lawyers on the Government side. When it comes to a matter such as we are now discussing I think also of the common saying 'He has jumped in where angels fear to tread'. When one thinks of it, this remark. could apply to the honourable, member for Phillip. Having done that, we can recognise immediately that the honourable member is no angel. 
Indeed he is. The honourable member for Phillip spoke of prerogative writs and said: 'You know, you can get an appeal against a question of law by a prerogative writ'. Let me tell him, in the most elementary terms, that it is well recognised that a preroga tive writ is an act of review and not of appeal. I suggest that the honourable member have a closer look at the Commonwealth Law Reports. I suggest also that he should look more closely at the boilermakers case because, in simple terms, that decided that for Federal jurisdiction there had to be a separation of the judicial from the non-judicial functions and where they were judicial functions they had to be carried out by a judge appointed in accordance with the Constitution. 
The point raised by my colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  about the lack of appeal on questions of law has nothing whatever to do with the decision in the boilermakers case. From what the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  indicated, the decision not to include a right of appeal was because of doubts thrown upon the legislation by the boilermakers case but that will not save the legislation if, in fact, it contravenes the decision in the boilermakers case. The provisions establishing the Tribunal and the functions that it will perform may well contravene the boilermakers case. If there are judicial functions to be performed by the tribunal then it would do so, because ail that clause 31 does is to render a judge of a Federal court, not being the High Court or a court of an external territory, qualified to be appointed as a member of the tribunal. 
When I read clause 32 I wonder how that applies to the term of appointment of a member of the tribunal who is a judge of a Federal court, because his term of appointment is for only 7 years. If he sits as a member of the tribunal and exercises his judicial functions - I would hesitate to anticipate what the decision of the High Court would be, but in that event - the legislation could very well contravene the principles of the boilermakers' case and so the activities of the tribunal could be brought to the ground. 
Then I wish to draw the attention of the Committee to clause 42 of the Bill. By that clause the Government acknowledges and recognises that questions of law will arise for determination by the tribunal. Having recognised that, it clothes the presidential member presiding over the particular division of the tribunal with the exclusive right to determine a question of law, and all other questions - nonlegal questions, one might say - are to be determined by a majority of the members. This brings me to the very point that the honourable member for Moreton raised, namely, that if in the legislation it is recognised that a question of law can arise on a review by the tribunal of an authorisation refused or granted by the Trade Practices Commission, then why on that question of law should not a party aggrieved have a right to appeal to the High Court or, indeed, some other court which is given an appellate jurisdiction. 
It is a quite inadequate answer for the Minister for Secondary Industry, who is himself a lawyer, to say: 'Well, the boilermakers' case throws doubts upon the matter, so we will not give any right of appeal'. It is a quite inadequate answer to the valid question raised by the honourable member for Moreton, and I am disappointed that the Minister could not do any better in answering the point. I hope that he will give further consideration to this question and to the situation in which an authorisation is not granted, thus prohibiting the applicant from conducting his business in trade or commerce in a particular way, because of the provisions of the Act, and thereby making him liable to a penalty of up to $250,000. A person who has had an authorisation refused and who takes that refusal to a review and finds that, on review, the question of law is decided against him on the one voice - on the single voice of the presidential member - may be liable to a penalty of $250,000, and he cannot take that question of law higher. 
I would have thought that this Government, which espouses in the name of the rights of the individual, fairness within the community, open government and all of these high flung phrases that honourable members are prone to use which announces that it intends to bring in an administrative review tribunal, would ensure in a piece of legislation which according to the words used by Government supporters is acknowledged to be of far-reaching significance and importance within the commercial community of Australia, that this elementary right of appeal against a decision on a question of law should not be denied to people who are brought within the purview of this Act. I do not understand the objection of the Government to the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Moreton. The answer given by the Minister is totally inadequate, and I would have expected more from his as a lawyer. 
I thank the Committee for the opportunity in the last couple of minutes of this dying debate to have a final word to say. I hope I will not prevent the Minister answering many of the questions that have been put to him this afternoon. I will cut even what I have to say very short. I would like to have discussed at greater length the operation of clause 45 of the Bill, and I direct the Minister's attention to it. By subclause (1) all contracts in restraint of trade or commerce are declared to be unlawful - insofar as that contract confers rights or benefits or imposes duties or obligations on a corporation. I have tried to look very carefully through the 
Bill to find out whether there is any saving of the common law, because we know that at the common law contracts in restraint of trade are not absolutely void. Some contracts in restraint of trade may be found by the courts to be not against public policy either because they are in the interests of the individuals or corporations who have entered into the contract or because they are in the public interest. But as I read this Bill, wherever the Bill, if it becomes an Act, applies to a contract in restraint of trade, the courts are excluded from considering whether that contract in its particular terms and the persons to whom it particularly applies, is not unlawful. If I am right in my reading of the Bill, this provision operates in a way in which I would expect the Government does not intend it to operate because clause 88 provides for an authorisation of a contract in restraint of trade, but it does not cover the particular instance I have mentioned. I take my remarks no further. I ask the Minister for an explanation. 
In the brief time available before the sitting is suspended I wish to deal with the 3 points that were made by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  his 3 tears of regret over this Bill. The first one was in relation to amalgamations. He said what a dreadful thing it was that the Bill was not amended with the amalgamation provisions he wanted because that would have put an end to demarcation disputes within Australia. Then he expressed concern, as he has done outside the House publicly, at the fact that demarcation disputes have nothing to do with an employer, and it is a great pity that an employer is put to the loss of production, the loss of working time and all the disturbance to his business that comes from a demarcation dispute which is solely the concern of the unions involved. This expression of deep concern by the Minister for the welfare of employers is intriguing to hear and must be gratifying to the employers in Australia. What I would have thought the Minister, who is so acutely aware of the way in which industrial problems can be solved in Australia, would have done to solve this problem of demarcation disputes is to have passed legislation - I am sure Opposition members would agree to it and give it a quick passage - which would require solely inter-union demarcation disputes to go to arbitration so that strikes over demarcation disputes should not be allowed, so that employers would not be harmed as the Minister does not want to see employers harmed. I would be interested to hear why the Minister has not considered such legislation, in view of what he said publicly outside the Parliament and inside the Parliament, to heal this running sore of industrial relations in Australia. Let us get it clear and put in perspective very quickly that demarcation disputes represent only a very small percentage of time lost in industrial disputes in Australia. 
The second matter I want to mention is the tear of regret that the Minister shed over his proposal that before an agreement can be certified it should be put to the workers concerned and receive their agreement. Again his concern for the workers is intriguing, because what he was proposing by his legislation was to exert legislative coercion upon union officials to compel them to do what one would expect they ought to do in any event. I would have thought that a good union official would always take to the members affected by the proposed agreement the terms of that agreement, and that that would then maintain the responsibility upon union officials which is at the heart of the union movement. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  shakes his head. I presume that by shaking his head he means that when he was a union official he never consulted the membership. If that is what he means by the shaking of his head, he ought to be ashamed of himself. 
The third matter over which the Minister shed a tear of regret was the fact that the Minister for Labour will not now be able to obtain an interpretation of an award, and that in order to do that he will have to bring a prosecution. The Minister omitted to mention to the Committee, until across the chamber I pointed out to him that he was obviously wrong, that under the existing legislation the 
Attorney-General can apply for an interpretation. I would have thought that it would be very easy for the Minister for Labour, who is in charge of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, to issue an administrative request to the Attorney-General to apply for an interpretation of an award. That should be a very simple administrative task even for this Minister to perform. In that way he would obtain the interpretation that he wishes. 
In the end what has the Minister achieved by this Bill which was introduced with great trumpeting and heraldry as being a fundamental requirement for better industrial relations in Australia? Really what the Minister has salvaged is 2 extra judges and his own inspectorate. We all know full well that he desires to appoint one of his outside friends as one of the 2 extra judges. He will now be able to grant the accolade of friendship to the gentleman concerned. 
I think I will be in this Parliament for a long time to come. Perhaps you will be seeing me for at least a couple of years. The inspectorate that the Minister has salvaged will be his industrial police force to complement  Senator Murphy's  FBI. Perhaps it is some consolation to him that he has his own industrial police force, but we on the Opposition side will be watching the operation of that inspectorate very closely to see that it is not misused or abused; that it is not used to terrorise employers, but that it is used responsibly to see that employers observe awards and used responsibly to see that unions observe awards. So in the end the Minister has salvaged these 2 things. He complained about 3 things and he has agreed to 30 amendments. I would have throught that that was cause for satisfaction on the part of Opposition members and for the Opposition spokesman on labour affairs, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who unfortunately cannot be here tonight, but he will be well satisfied with the way in which the Bill has been handled by the Senate. The amendments which he moved in this House have been approved by the Senate and agreed by the Minister. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
I should like to make one short comment on a matter that was discussed earlier by the honourable memfor Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  namely, the obtaining of postal votes from elderly people. I believe that practices which have developed over the years and are used by both major political parties are to be condemned. There is nothing more unedifying than to see canvassers on behalf of candidates scrambling for the votes of elderly and sick people. I offer very shortly the thought to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  for inclusion in the legislation on electoral matters which he has foreshadowed he will bring down that the right to vote of people over 70 years of age should be voluntary and not compulsory, and the seeking of postal votes from those people by canvassers on behalf of candidates should be outlawed. We would then have a truly voluntary vote available to those people over the age of 70 who genuinely desire the vote, and there are many who do desire to exercise their right to vote. For those who are too sick to get to the polling booth on polling day, administrative arrangements ought to be made through the Commonwealth Electoral Office for a voting paper to be taken to those people, not by representatives of political parties but by officers of the Electoral Office. I offer these short comments to the Minister for his consideration. 
I wish to speak now on housing because of the great concern I have at the intended abolition by the Government of the homes savings grant scheme. It is a concern that not only I but also a great many people within the community feel because the homes savings grant scheme is a stepping stone to home ownership by young couples. When young couples set out on the path of obtaining a home, the very first thing they must do is to accumulate the necessary money to put down a deposit on that home, enough money to enable them to borrow from an established institution. What this Government proposes to do is to kick away from those young couples that very first stepping stone, and this from a party which espouses so much the cause of the people in the community who are not affluent. The Government is making things more difficult for the less affluent people in the community and restricting the availability of housing finance to those who are more affluent and more fortunate. 
It must be remembered that when the Homes Savings Grant Bill was introduced on 5 May 1964 it followed an election promise by the then Prime Minister, the right honourable  Sir Robert  Menzies, to introduce such a scheme designed to encourage young people to accumulate savings towards the purchase of their home. It was also intended to channel savings during the savings period prescribed to institutional lenders who would make more money available in the community for housing generally. So, there was a double-barrel purpose behind this scheme. The phrase that was commonly used in those days and one which really underwrote the scheme was that it was intended to enable young couples to overcome the deposit gap. I would be surprised to hear the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  propound the idea that there is no deposit gap confronting young couples today. It exists today as much as it did in 1964, and I believe that the primary objective for which that homes savings grant scheme was introduced in that year is as good today as it was then. 
In the interim statement for the year 1972- 73 that has just been published by the Secretary of the Department of Housing, the policy behind the scheme is expressed as I have stated it. It is also pointed out in that statement that, during the past year, a record number of 47,260 applications for grants were received and a total of 40,847 grants amounting to $21,343,564 were approved. Payments of grants amounted to $21,286,919, the highest in any year since the scheme commenced. No one can deny that this scheme has been of tremendous benefit to the young people of this country, and I think it is to be much lamented that it is the policy of this Government to destroy a scheme which has been of such value to the whole community. 
At the same time as the homes savings grant scheme was introduced the government led by  Sir Robert  Menzies set up the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, which was enabled to underwrite lending by institutions for housing to the extent of 90 per cent of the value of the home being purchased. Prior to the Corporation being established, banks and building societies would generally lend only about 60 or 70 per cent of the value, which of course meant that there was a tremendous deposit gap for young couples to overcome. However, by the combination of the homes savings grant scheme, which provided the incentive for young couples to save that first amount of money to embark upon home ownership, and the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, which enabled institutions to lend up to 90 per cent of the value, that deposit gap was virtually obliterated. 
The growth of home ownership and lending for housing in Australia can be judged from 2 sets of figures which I shall quote quickly to the Committee. Let me deal first of all with the growth in homes savings grants - from 24,740 in 1964-65 to the figure that I have already mentioned, 47,260. The statistics I have show that up to the end of 1971-72 the total number of grants was 248,334, which means that over a quarter of a million people in Australia have benefited from this scheme. In 1965-66, the year in which it was established, the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation underwrote 2,002 housing loans, and in 1971-72 it underwrote 44,520 loans. This shows a tremendous and rapid scale of growth in the underwriting of housing loans throughout Australia. One can also see the pattern reflected in the volume of business that building societies have done during that period. I have only the statistics relating to the underwriting of building society loans by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, but they show that the number of loans increased from 1,578 in 1965-66 to 36,153 in 1971-72. 
On top of that, schemes have been put forward by both the Government and the Opposition to provide some measure of relief to people who are paying off housing loans, either by a tax deductibility scheme as put forward by the Government or by a rebate scheme as put forward by the Opposition when it was in government. One can see that if the homes savings grant scheme were retained and relief were provided in either of these ways, the total package would benefit all home seekers, particularly young couples who want to own their own homes. At a time when the Government is proposing to introduce a tax deductibility scheme, it is a tragedy that it is dismantling - more than dismantling - the homes savings grant scheme and rejecting it altogether. It is fundamental, indeed obvious, that in housing matters a government must start at the beginning. If it is part of the Government's political philosophy to promote home ownership, it must start at the beginning. The start is the savings which young people must accumulate. At this beginning, we must provide government assistance by way of an incentive to save through the homes savings grant scheme. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to a report in last week's 'Sunday Times' published in Perth under the headline Anger in WA over gold tax rejection'? The report referred to a letter from the Minister assisting the Treasurer to  Mr A.  D. Motion saying that the Government had rejected the submissions put to the Treasurer for relief from the intention to remove the exemptions from taxation on the gold-mining industry? Is that report correct? If it is, has the Treasurer any proposals by way of rehabilitation or compensation to the industry for the removal of these tax benefits? 
The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  has quite misunderstood the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  There is a very simple proposition here, that there are 2 things which govern the passage of this Bill. They are, firstly, the Standing Orders and practice of the House and, secondly, the Constitution. The Constitution comes after the procedures in this House. In order to determine whether this Bill has been validly passed in accordance with the Constitution, it is necessary to determine whether it has been passed by this chamber. In order to determine whether it has been passed by this chamber, it is necessary to look to the procedures of this House.  Mr Speaker,  I direct your attention to standing order 1, which reads: 
In all cases not provided for hereinafter, or by sessional or other orders or practice of the House, resort shall be had to the practice of the Commons House of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in force for the time being, which shall be followed as far as can be applied. 
Having observed standing order 1,  Mr Speaker,  you have then to determine whether there were any sessional or other orders of this House in operation at the present time - at the time when this Bil! was debated - and, as has been pointed out by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  standing orders 193 and 263 are in operation at the present time. Therefore, in order to test whether there has been an absolute majority in favour of this Bill, you must look to those 2 standing orders,  Mr Speaker.  I am sure that Hansard will record that the motion 'That the Bill be now read a third time' was put and declared carried on the voices and that the Bill was read a third time by the  Clerk.  That having been done, the Standing Orders of this House were completely carried out and put into effect. There was, therefore, no opportunity whatsoever for a division to be called for or put into operation and for the tellers to be asked to count the votes. 
Of course I was here. 
If the honourable member for Melbourne has anything better to say than I have, I invite him to get on his feet afterwards and say it. The Minister for the Capital Territory said in his argument that our proposition was that the only members of the House who could move for a division were those on the Opposition side of the chamber. I suggest to the Minister that he is completely wrong. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  was caught with his pants down - the most unedifying spectacle we have yet seen in this House. Had he been sitting at the table, rather than the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison),  he would have realised what had happened. What had happened was that there was no call from the Opposition side of the House for a division and no honourable member on the Government side called for a division. Therefore, the motion was put on the voices, carried on the voices and declared to have been carried by the  Clerk  of the House. That,  Mr Speaker,  in my most respectful submission, is the end of the matter. 
Had you observed the procedures of the House, we would not have had the position where the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  was called upon to withdraw a remark and expelled from the House and there would have been no cause for the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to be called upon to withdraw and to be quite improperly and unjustly treated, as he was by the supporters of the Government. 
Not upon you,  Mr Speaker;  upon the supporters of the Government, because they knew that they were in error and they were trying to get an expulsion from this side of the House in order to save their own skins.  Mr Speaker,  the matter, in the end, is very simple. If the House looks at the procedures of this House and then looks at the Constitution it will see that the answer is straightforward and clear. I suggest,  Mr Speaker,  that there is every reason why the motion of dissent from your ruling should be carried. The matter is clear. The supporters of the Government know that they are in the wrong. They know that they have messed up what this afternoon was declared by them to be a most vital matter of constitutional importance. It may be that the matter would have gone through properly if the Leader of the House had been on the ball, but he did not pay the attention that he ought to have paid to this very important matter. He was, as I have said, caught with his pants down. That is where he stands at the present time. 
I wish to make a few remarks on the estimates for the Department of Labour. The first matter to which I wish to refer is the role of the inspectorate within the Department of Labour. I was intrigued to receive the booklet 'Towards a New Life', being a progress report by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on the contribution made through his portfolio. It is a magnificent little booklet that is printed in a bright red colour. To think what this new industrial life will be under the aegis of the Minister - life under Labor; life under Clyde - with this inspectorate that has been established or is proposed to be established must make many employers throughout Australia concerned at what lies ahead of them. Is there to be a great bureaucratic department of inspectors who will go out into all industry and carry out their inspectorial duties pursuant to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? 
In the past there has been provision in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for the appointment of inspectors and authority has been given to them to prosecute for breaches of an award. It is an authority which is not only given to an inspector but is also given to a long list of other persons. It is as well to remind the Committee who they are. Subsection 2 of section 119 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act states that any penalty for breach of an award may be sued for and recovered by the Registrar, an inspector, any organisation which is affected or whose members or any of them are affected by the breach, any member of any organisation who is affected by the breach, any party to the award or order, or any officer of an organisation which is affected or whose members are affected and who is authorised to institute the prosecution. A wide range of persons is authorised to enforce the Act and enforce awards if there has been any breach. So why has it been necessary for the Minister to propose, as he said in his little booklet, a trebling of the number of inspectors? That is what he has said. 
He said that his objectives will require a trebling of the existing number of inspectors. He said that action has already been taken to commence the first stage of the increase in size of the inspectorate and that he expects another 40 or 50 inspectors to be in their posts by the end of this year. I should like the Minister for Labour to explain to the Committee how many of these inspectors have already been appointed. If the total of 40 to 50 have not been appointed, when will they be appointed? 
To take it further, I ask the Minister: When is it expected that the full size of the inspectorate^ - the trebling of its existing size - will be achieved? Not only that. Once all these inspectors have been appointed, what will be their role? How will they operate? Are they to operate on their own initiative, simply taking an industry at a time or, say, a group of industries at a time in a particular State, making a factory by factory or office by office examination of the employers to establish whether they have been observing the award? Will the inspectors act not on their own initiative but on a request of a union or of an employee who has a complaint and goes to the Department of Labour? Will they act upon an instruction or a request by the Registrar? Indeed, how are these inspectors to go about their task? With this trebling in size of the inspectorate, I should like to know, and I am sure employers throughout Australia would like to know, the answers to those questions. Will the inspectors be given carte blanche to perform their duties however they like? If they are not to act on their own initiative but are to wait until a union or an employee or someone else has brought a matter to their notice, will it be the inspectorate which will prosecute? Why will it not toe left to the unions, which already have the authority to institute proceedings? 
In my experience in Western Australia, unions have been very active under both State and Federal awards in looking after the interests of their members and in bringing prosecutions where that has been thought necessary. Does the Minister for Labour consider that the unions have not been doing their job, have not been looking after the interests of their members, have been falling down on the job and that because of this he must establish a new bureaucracy in order to do what the unions have failed to do? As I have said, in my experience the unions have done their job and have done it very well. They have acted as a watchdog for their members to see that the awards have been observed. A situation in Western Australia has come to my notice where, for example, a union and an employer by agreement have conducted affairs in the employer's establishment not exactly in terms of the award. Along comes an inspector who observes this practice and says: 'Notwithstanding the agreement, I am going to apply the letter of the law. I am going to prosecute'. He has done so and the Industrial Court has been obliged to find the employer guilty, when he could have protested his innocence because of the agreement between him and the union. I ask the Minister for Labour whether that is going to be the basis upon which the inspectorate will carry out its work. Will it disregard custom and practice within an industry, agreements between employers and unions, by which the establishment has conducted itself? These are very real questions that I think the Minister must answer rather than in this grandiose way simply say that he is leading industry throughout Australia to a new life. We have yet to see what that new life will be. 
In the few minutes remaining to me, I want to touch briefly on another matter. I refer to the peace conference which the Minister has called. I ask the Minister to explain to me and to the Committee the relationship between the peace conference he has called for 10 December and the special committee of inquiry which he also announced in the booklet Towards a New Life' and which previously he has mentioned in this House? Is it intended that the peace conference will subvert that committee of inquiry? Is it intended that the committee of inquiry will not be called into being at all? I notice that, of the 11 points listed for discussion at the peace conference, a good many were proposed to be items for in-depth study by the committee of inquiry. 
Another question relating to the peace conference and the proposals put forward by the Minister for Labour in relation to the peace conference needs to be answered. I refer particularly to the Minister's proposal for mediation and conciliation in support of voluntary negotiations to reach agreement between employers and unions and, as the Minister quite deliberately said, independently of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. As has been described in the Press, the voluntary negotiated agreement presumably will run in tandem with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
But where will the Minister obtain the skilled mediators and conciliators if this independent course of voluntary negotiation is pursued? The most experienced people in Australia in the field of mediation and conciliation are presently within the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Is it proposed to draw them from the Commission and to place them on these new committees to provide support for voluntary agreements? If the Minister's idea is to draw this skill from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, how will he replace this skill? Is it intended to be part of a process whereby the conciliation and arbitration system will be weakened in order to strengthen voluntary negotiations - a polite euphemism for collective bargaining? If that is to be the case, how will these 2 systems be able to run in tandem? Once we draw the skilled operators away from one part of the system and put them into another, the 2 systems cannot run in tandem. If the Minister does not propose to draw the mediators and conciliators from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, from where will he obtain them? Who will they be? What pool of skill does he know exists in Australia from which to draw them? In other words, before the Minister's 11 point program can make any real progress we need to have answered the 2 points that I have raised, firstly, whether the special committee of inquiry is to run in tandem with the Minister's peace conference, or whether it is to be forgotten and brushed under the carpet, and secondly, the Minister's idea of voluntary negotiated agreements and mediators and conciliators needs much better definition before it can get off the ground. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy and I refer to a statement on natural gas by the honourable gentleman in this House on 16 October when he said: 
We plan a major refinery at Dampier to strip the liquids from natural gas and in turn, from the liquids, to strip ethane . . . 
In the same statement, the Minister also said: 
I plan also for the petro-chemical plant to utilise the salt harvests of the Dampier area to convert into caustic soda . . . 
I refer the Minister particularly to his statement on plans he has for a major refinery at Dampier. I ask the Minister: Is he aware of proceedings before Senate Estimates Committee F on 12 November and 20 November at which officers of his Department and  Senator Willesee  revealed that the Department has no plans - I repeat, no plans - for a refinery at Dampier, nor are any plans for such a refinery being formulated by the Department? Will the Minister confirm this to be the fact? Is the refinery just a fancy idea which the Minister carries around in his head? 
The amendments now proposed by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  are the result not of a Government decision but of the decision taken by the Labor Party Caucus on 14 November. It was a decision taken in the face of intransigent opposition by the Treasurer, an opposition which he consistently and publicly stated on many occasions both inside and outside this House. It is interesting to look at a review of the events which led up to this Caucus decision on 14 November. On 24 June the Coombs report was presented. It recommended the removal of all the taxation exemptions in favour of the gold mining industry and other prescribed mineral industries in relation to profits made, and also the exemption in favour of bona fide prospectors. In the Budget of 24 August, the Treasurer announced that he would follow the recommendations of the Coombs report. On 22 August the people of Kalgoorlie, as reflected in its local newspaper the 'Kalgoorlie Miner', were dismayed by these Budget decisions and they foresaw that the gold mining industry would be severely jeopardised, if not destroyed altogether. On 28 August questions were asked in this chamber and the Treasurer maintained the position that he had taken in the Budget Speech. He would not recant from the Budget decisions, though he foreshadowed that he would be prepared to listen to representations But the clear intent behind the statements of the Treasurer on that occasion was that he was firm in his acceptance of the Coombs decisions and the Budget proposals. 
On 30 August, a public meeting was held in Kalgoorlie to which the Treasurer and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  were invited but neither attended. At that meeting there really was a public outcry against the decision of the Government. One of the most significant public outcries came from the miners themselves who led a march through the streets of Kalgoorlie to the public meeting. At the Town Hall one of them spoke of secession and the need for secession in the face of this kind of Government decision. That ought to be remembered by the Treasurer and Government supporters when we hear the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  try, as he did the other night, to label  Sir Charles  Court as secessionist. The supporters - as they were previously - of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie were as strong as anyone in Kalgoorlie on that day in a call for secession. 
Again on 13 September questions were asked of the Treasurer and he maintained his position. There was no movement backwards by him. On 26 September a question was asked in the Senate of the Minister representing the Treasurer, and the reply which was read on that date to the Senate from the Acting Treasurer said that the Government was not of a mind to change its Budget decision. That was a clear, unequivocal statement made on 26 September. During October there was a deputation to the Treasurer, the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  As appeared later from public statements in particular the Treasurer apparently advised the deputation that the Government could not see its way clear to change its mind on the Budget proposals. 
On 10 November it was revealed in an article in the 'Sunday Times' published in Perth that a few days earlier the Acting Treasurer had written to a  Mr Motion,  who is the  Chairman  of the company Metramar Minerals Ltd which is engaged in opening up the Blue Spec Mine, that the Government had decided not to change its Budget decision and that the amendments in the Income Tax Assessment Bill - the Bill now before the chamber - would be pursued. There is a clear and unequivocal statement in that letter. On 13 November, in reply to a question from  Senator Durack, Senator Willesee  said again in clear and unequivocal terms that the Government would not change its decision. On the same day I asked a question in this place, in the light of the article in the 'Sunday Times', and the Treasurer's answer to me showed that there was no intention on the part of the Government to change its Budget decisions. 
On 14 November Caucus met and decided, as I said, in face of strong opposition by the Treasurer. But the Caucus decision in the light of those events can be seen as an act of calculated cynicism and only for the purpose of trying to save the political skin of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. It shows no concern for the industry itself, no concern for the people of Kalgoorlie, no concern for bona fide prospectors and a concern only for the political skin of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie because the decision of Caucus which the Treasurer and the Government were bound to accept was a short term decision to defer for one year the proposal to withdraw the exemption in favour of profits from gold mining and one-fifth of the profits from other prescribed minerals. 
On .15 November a Dorothy Dix question was asked of the Teasurer so Chat he could announce the Caucus decision. On 23 November, last Friday, an officer from the Department of Minerals and Energy travelled to Perth and then to Kalgoorlie. So last Friday was the first occasion that this Government quite obviously set out to make an investigation on the ground of what its Budget proposals would do to the gold mining industry of Kalgoorlie and the other outlying towns dependent on that industry. 
So it is quite clear that all that the Government had before it when it made its Budget decision was the armchair assessment of the Coombs task force economists. The recommendation of the Coombs economists reflected the attitudes of a stodgy accountant. 
Nowhere in that recommendation, nowhere in the Government's attitude towards the gold .mining industry is there reflected the spirit of the gold fields, the spirit of the people who have written the gold mining industry deeply into the history of this country. Nowhere do we find on the part of the Coombs task force, the Treasurer or members of the Cabinet any concern for or knowledge of the industry itself. It is quite clear that the Coombs recommendation and the Budget decision, carried through over many months into Caucus by the Treasurer, was a decision made out of plain ignorance, and only now is a study being made on the ground to assess the impact of that decision on the gold mining industry of Kalgoorlie and the outlying towns that are dependent on Kalgoorlie, and upon the outlying gold shows, the old gold mines and prospective gold mines which were expecting that this particular favour - in order to encourage the industry - would be continued. But overnight the desire to reassess old gold mines was shattered. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Unfortunately we have heard from the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  a tirade of abuse which had nothing to do with the subject matter of public importance and which in no way clarified the issues that are facing the Australian public at present because of the administration by the Minister of his portfolio. Let me mention one matter to which both the Minister and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who preceded me in this debate referred and which relates to the hydrogenation of coal. The Minister spoke about instituting a crash program to investigate this process. I wonder how that stands as a public statement with the evidence that was put before the Estimates Committee of the Senate dealing with the Department of Minerals and Energy. Officers of his Department told members of the Senate Committee that there is no laboratory in Australia which is capable of conducting the research and applying the technology necessary to develop a program of hydrogenation of coal, nor is there any provision in the Estimates of the Minister's Department for such a program. I think that matter needs some explanation by the Minister to this House and to the people of Australia. 
What kind of crash program will it be? It will be a program which will crash as much as has the Minister's administration of petroleum exploration in Australia. At a time of world energy crisis of incalculable proportions and a time of Arab gunboat oil diplomacy of the most callous and calculated kind, when a world depression is almost a foregone conclusion in the face of that diplomacy by the Arabs, Australia requires from the Minister 2 things: Firstly, a clear, simple and accurate statement of Australia's domestic oil supplies and future domestic demands. That ought to be something with which the Minister can come forth, with all the forces of his Department to back him up. Secondly, a sense of urgency is required of the Minister and the Government in decision making and in action. This is not a time when the Government can sit back or when the Minister can delude the public or when there can be an air of complacency about this energy problem. 
Australia has an energy problem. It is not as bad as it is in Western Europe or America but nevertheless Australia has its own energy problem. What have we heard from the Minister in respect of the 2 things that are required? Inaccurate, conflicting and misleading information has been given to this House and to the public and we have had this air of complacency from the Minister which pervades the whole administration of his portfolio. The conflicting, inaccurate and misleading statements are in the Hansard record and I will refer to them only briefly because of the limited time available to me in this debate. On 31 May in a debate on the Pipeline Authority Bill at page 2973 of Hansard the Minister said: 
On this basis- 
Having dealt with the subject before- our recoverable Australian crude oil will be exhausted in 12 years. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy gave a figure of 12 years in May. By October the Minister had changed the figure and the statement to one of an anticipated supply of 8 years. He put it in this context: 
Australia is notably deficient in crude oil. We only have 8 years supply, allowing for projected expansion of consumption. 
Then on Monday last  -  26 November - in answer to a question he said that Australia has no more than 8 years known recoverable reserves of crude oil. The periods are different, the language is different and the concepts are different. We in this House want to know what the Minister means. The public needs to know what the Minister means. 
 That probably is the case because quite obviously the Minister has not read the material that is available to him from his own Department. When the Minister speaks of 8 years supply being available to Australia, does he mean that in the eighth year from now there will be no oil available? That is what supply' means, as I understand it. If that is the truth, the public ought to know because the possibility that Australia can literally run out of oil in 8 years is a most serious matter. 
The truth of the matter, as the industry well knows - even if the Minister does not know that his statement is not correct - is that within 8 years or thereabouts the recovery decline, or the production curve to use the technical term, will start to decline. What the Minister must talk about is the gap between production and demand. The public needs to know what is that gap, how quickly it will widen and what action is to be taken by this Government to see chat it does not widen too far but narrows again. There will be oil in the ground in 8 years time and there will be oil that can be produced for use in Australia in 8 years time, but how much is available for production will depend upon how much oil has been discovered. This is where the Opposition crosses swords with the Minister and where it condemns the inaction of this Government and condemns the Minister for the way in which he has tried to delude this House, and has misled the Australian people. The Minister for Minerals and Energy gives the impression that supplies will run out in 8 years but that everything will be all right because a crash program of coal hydrogenation will solve all the problems in Australia. Everyone in the industry and everyone who reads the documentation from the Minister's own Department knows that during this year there has been in Australia a radical run-down in the amount of exploration, both on-shore and off-shore. All that anyone needs to do in order to get the truth is to read the publications of the Minister's Department. I refer to a publication called "The Petroleum Newsletter No. 54' put out by the Bureau of Mineral Resources this year for the period 1 April to 30 June. In the table of drilling activity one can quickly see what the drastic downturn has been. If one turns to the schedules of on-shore rigs being used as at 30 June 1973, one comes across the word idle' time and time again - 'idle', 'idle', 'idle' - until one realises that in Australia about 20 rigs are idle. 
There is one solid contribution that the Government could make to ensure for the Australian public that there are adequate reserves of petroleum in Australia in the foreseeable future, and that is to accelerate, and rapidly accelerate, the exploration program. There is no substitute for that, and the Minister knows it. He ought to read a publication in the 'Oil and Gas' journal of May 1973 by  Mr J.  M. Henry and  Mr K.  Blair-both of the Department of Minerals and Energy and in particular of the Bureau of Mineral Resources - entitled 'Australian Contribution in Expenditure And Development Of Its Indigenous Petroleum Resources'. The magnitude of what is required in Australia can be judged very quickly from these figures: To satisfy our crude oil requirements over the next 12 years, exploration expenditure of the order of $1,1 50m is required. Then, in addition to that, expenditure for development of those wells and the cost of other facilities is another $2,000m, making a total of $3, 150m. It has been mooted that through the National Petroleum and Minerals Authority, foreshadowed by the Minister some $50m will be available to that Authority. If only half of that is put into petroleum exloration over the next 12 years, representing $3 00m for exploration, there will be a massive shortfall of thousands of millions of dollars, which will have to be made up in order to explore for and discover the reserves to satisfy our crude oil requirements for a mere 12 years. 
Where will that money come from? It must come from private industry. What has this Minister done? He has killed off the opportunity for private industry to invest that sort of money. He has killed off the incentive to private investors to put up that risk capital. He has denied to the international industry the opportunity to come and aid Australia in what is required- 
As one who was involved in the debates in this chamber on the 2 occasions on which the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill was brought before us, I am pleased to see now the result that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is at the table, has seen fit to accept the amendment made by the Senate. It must be gratifying to those who opposed the legislation in this chamber and those who carried that opposition into the Senate. As has been said by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  the Senate must be well satisfied with the role that it has played in dealing with the same Bill on the 2 occasions on which it was brought before it. It has justified before the people of Australia the reviewing role which the Senate can play on important pieces of legislation. 
It has to be remembered that when the Minister introduced this Bill the first time he justified it on the basis that it was referred to in the Governor-General's Speech as a major plank in the Government's platform and as a major piece of legislation to be introduced by the Government as quickly as possible. This Bill was introduced early as a key piece in the jigsaw puzzle of the Government's policy of seeking to obtain Commonwealth control of the natural resources of Australia. This Government saw in the off-shore areas of Australia, not only in minerals but also in hydrocarbons, an area in which in terms of its ideology it had to take control from the States. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party has said, the Senate, as a states House, has been able to exert its influence upon the Government in a proper, reasonable, rational and intelligent way. The Senate has shown the Government that it cannot simply ride roughshod over not only the States in terms of State rights but also the people of those States who are affected by this legislation. 
With the Parts of the Bill that are left, I venture to suggest that it is no worth any more than the paper upon which it is printed. It is not a vehicle for establishing sovereignty in the Commonwealth, as the Minister has put forward before. It is not a vehicle for establishing exclusive control over the off-shore areas of Australia, as the Government sought to do when it set out to introduce this legislation. It is not a vehicle for extending the laws of the Australian Capital Territory to the areas off-shore from Australia beyond the 3-mile limit. It will not do any of those things for the Government. I suggest that it will be a piece of legislation which will lie dormant on the statute book until something else is done in this area. 
It adds the third tier in the trilogy of legislation which was introduced by this Government with a great fanfare of trumpeting as being legislation which, if not passed by the Senate, could bring about a double dissolution very quickly. The first Bill in the trilogy was the Electoral Bill, which was dealt with in this chamber, where it was opposed by the Opposition, taken to the Senate where it was rejected, returned to this chamber, sent back to the Senate and rejected again by the Senate. That was the first piece of legislation over which the Government threatened to have a double dissolution. We have not seen the Government take any step in that regard. The second major Bill that was dealt with by the Senate was the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. We saw very recently that all the Senate amendments were accepted by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when the Bill came back to this chamber. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! I appreciate the point that the honourable member for Stirling is making in relation to the amendment being sent back from the Senate to this chamber. But I should not like this debate, in Committee, to develop into a debate on the authenticity of the action of the Senate in relation to other legislation. 
I think I have said enough on that point. I shall not take the matter any further, but it is obvious to the Committee and to the Senate. It is pertinent to this piece of legislation. This Bill was presented to this Parliament by the Minister as a fundamental plank in the Government's platform and in its policy to control the natural resources of Australia. It is pertinent to observe again the role that the Senate has played. It has upheld the stand that was taken by the Opposition - a stand which is now accepted by the Minister. 
To those in the various States of Australia who at all times have sought co-operation with the Commonwealth Government in the exploitation and development of the off-shore areas of Australia in the minerals field as distinct from the exploration for and development of petroleum resources, it must be satisfying to see that the mining code has been rejected by the Senate and that the rejection has now been accepted by the Minister. We shall be interested to see what the Minister does with the legislation as it stands and whether he seeks to erect upon it some other kind of regime in the off-shore areas of Australia or whether he will, accepting the good faith of the Opposition and the good faith of the Senate, approach the States of Australia to see whether some mutual and beneficial regime for the exploration and exploitation of mineral resources of off-shore areas of Australia cannot be negotiated and brought into effect, if not precisely in the same terms as the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, then in some similar terms. 
This takes me back to the GovernorGeneral's Speech when so much was said by him on behalf of the Government of the desire of the Government for co-operative federalism. 
One would have thought that co-operative federalism in action in this area would have caused the Minister at the table to approach the States to see whether a regime of mutual benefit could not have been negotiated and put into effect through legislation which he knew would be accepted by this House, 'the Senate and the parliaments of the various States. I am sure that is what the States will be looking forward to - to see where the good faith of the Minister lies in this area and whether, with merely a declaration of sovereignty being worth what it might be, and nobody knows that, he will leave the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act as it is and work in co-operation with the appropriate ministerial authority under that Act for the mutual benefit of the States and the Commonwealth. 
It must be satisfying to those in this House and in the Senate who opposed the Bill in its present form to see that the Minister has now accepted the amendments steadfastly pursued by the Senate. As was said by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  the Senate acted in a spirit of review of the legislation. One can see that quite clearly from the debates in the Senate. In that spirit we ought to assume that the Minister has accepted the amendments to the Bill so as to remove Part III from the Act. I commend the Minister for the stand he has taken tonight. I hope that same spirit pervades the approach that he brings to bear in his dealings with the States in this critical area of mineral and petroleum exploration and development throughout Australia. 
I preface my question, which I address to the Minister for Services and Property, by observing that there is still a redistribution of electorates in progress in Western Australia. Will the Minister advise the House of the state of progress of that redistribution? Is it likely that the Commissioners' report will be tabled in Parliament before we rise? 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said over and over again that he wished he had time to look at the formation of enterprises such as the Commonwealth Bank, TransAustralia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd. Having heard what the honourable member said, we would wish that the honourable member had more time to put into his speech. The fact that he did not have enough time to research thoroughly his own speech indicates the rush with which the Bill was introduced and forced into the House and the rush with which it is going to be guillotined. 
The 2 Bills we are dealing with, the Public Service Bill (No. 4) and the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Bill, are cognate Bills making various amendments to the provisions of the Public Service Act and providing for a reduced period of service before a member of the Public Service is entitled to long service leave. One of the principal amendments to the Public Service is to remove from the Act any discriminatory terms applying as between males and females so that any inferred discrimination against females by specific reference to them is to be deleted from the Act. The Opposition has no objection to that. It supports the removal from legislation of this kind of any language which might infer that there is discrimination, or which not only might infer discrimnation but also would allow in the administration of the Act discrimination to come about in practice. 
Having said that, it is as well to remember that although legislation might not, in its terms, authorise any discrimination, the way in which a service such as the Public Service is administered could well lead in practice to discrimination. I know this is one of the matters about which women in Australia are concerned. Some groups in Australia would like to see not only any language removed which in its terms is discriminatory, but also provisions inserted into an Act of this kind positively preventing discrimination. As long as the Minister in charge of the Bill is prepared to acknowledge to the House that the Government will keep a close watch on all the administrative practices within the Public Service to remove any element of discrimination, it is not necessary - certainly at the moment - to go so far as to put in this positive prohibition against discrimination. 
I note that the Minister is agreeing with what I have said, and I am glad to see that. There is no need to take this matter further. The Opposition agrees with what the Government proposes in this Bill. It is in line with its own policy and it hopes that, this having now been achieved in a legislative fashion, it will run right through the Public Service and any element of discrimination will be eliminated. Without moving too far from the subject of discrimination between males and females, it is as well to remind the House that, within the Public Service, discrimination can apply in other directions. I have in mind especially handicapped persons. We do not find any legislative prescription dealing with discrimination against handicapped persons, but people who are so unfortunate as to suffer from conditions such as epilepsy find themselves in a difficult position, not only in private industry but also within the Public Service. I have had representations from people in my own State who suffer in this way. I have in mind one man with whom I played hockey for many years. He passed all the entrance examinations for the Public Service, but had one unfortunate experience within the Service because of his epilepsy and therefore was dismissed. He has gone on to study at night school and has reached a high level of clerical ability through examination and through his own natural ability, yet he is not able to return to the Public Service. I have written to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  about this, and I hope the matter can be taken further within the Public Service so that in practice discrimination, whether against women or handicapped persons of any kind, can be eliminated altogether. 
The Bill removes from the requirements of eligibility for appointment to the Public Service the provision in section 34 of the Act which requires a person first to make and to subscribe to the prescribed oath or affirmation. The Government is proposing to remove that requirement, but the Opposition disagrees with what the Government is doing, and in Committee I will move an amendment seeking to reinstate that requirement in section 34, together with consequential provisions in the Act dealing with the same subject matter, to have public servants take the oath or affirmation of allegiance to the Crown. We do this consistent with the approach of the Opposition to the Government's desire, in introducing its Citizenship Bill, to remove the requirement that, on becoming naturalised, persons must take an oath or affirmation of allegiance to the Crown. Although in the second reading speech the Minister observed that there is no requirement for an oath of allegiance in State Public Services or in the British Civil Service, the Minister has advanced no real justification in favour of removing this longstanding practice and legislative requirement that an oath or affirmation of allegiance must be taken by members of the Public Service. 
It may well be another sign of an apparent move within the Government to break links with the Crown - not in totality, but just to chip away at the edges. The Opposition would not like to see the removal of this provision. Without any undue deference to the Commonwealth Public Service - or the Australian Public Service, as it is now to be known - and without derogation from the job done by the State Public Services, one might say that the Commonwealth Public Service, as the national Public Service, is pre-eminent in Australia. One could well expect that this oath or affirmation of allegiance to the Crown, being at the pinnacle of the Constitution, should be sustained. As I have said, I shall be moving amendments in Committee to re-instate that requirement. 
The Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Bill is introduced to reduce from 15 years to 10 years the period of service which will entitle a public servant to long service leave. The Opposition does not disagree with this proposal. I see from figures available as to the period of eligibility in other States that, broadly speaking, what the Government proposes is in line with eligibility requirements in those other States. Having said that, I make one observation on the promise which the Government, through the Minister for Labour and through a Cabinet decision on 3 April 19 3, made to Commonwealth public servants regarding furlough - that is, long service leave - and the rate of accrual of entitlement to long service leave. On 3 April this year Press statement No. 69 was issued. It announced the decision that the basic qualification period for long service leave would be reduced from 15 years to 10 years. That statement also announced 2 other major improvements proposed for the Public Service - firstly, that the accrual rate for furlough should be 3 months for the first 10 years and half a month for each year thereafter and, secondly, that for the purpose of assessing the increased rates of accrual service would be calculated retrospectively to the date of commencing employment and that those public servants employed as at the date of that statement who had taken furlough would be granted their total furlough entitlement under the new provisions less the period of furlough granted. 
That was the decision of the Cabinet. That was the promise made to the Australian public servants. However, subsequently the Minister for Labour repudiated that promise with regard to the accrual rate for furlough and announced that that decision would be deferred. The Minister spoke in these terms: 'I wish to advise that most of the matters will be included in a separate Bill early next year, if our negotiations for a portable scheme break down.' He was referring to negotiations with the various State governments. The Minister said: 
However, I should make it clear that I could not see my way clear to recommend to the Prime Minister that past service with the Commonwealth be taken into account for the purpose of assisting entitlements under the new rate of accrual. The cost could be astronomical and could not be justified to the Australian public. I can see at once that this represents at its worst a repudiation of the undertaking that I gave to the unions some months ago but I would have no hesitation or difficulty in justifying such a repudiation. 
There was no need for the Minister to say that at worst it was a repudiation. In fact, it was a repudiation and the Australian public servants know that only too well. They have not been hesitant at all in condemning the Minister for that repudiation. Not only must we assume but we really know from an answer given by the Prime Minister to a question in this House yesterday that the Cabinet agrees with the repudiation of that promise made by the Minister. 
Looking at it in practical terms, the excuse given by the Minister and by the Prime Minister for this repudiation really does not stand up at all. It is said that scheme cannot be introduced now because the Australian Government is negotiating with the State governments to bring in a national long service leave scheme. That is undoubtedly an admirable objective but it certainly is no reason for this Government not to honour a promise that it made to the Australian public servants. The Minister, in announcing that repudiation, sought to justify it in terms of costs which he said could be astronomical. Nowhere as far as I know has the Minister ever sought to ascertain this 'astronomical cost' of introducing this scheme. If he can produce those figures we might well agree with him that the cost would be so astronomical that it would add so much to the inflationary trend in Australia that he and the Government would be justified in not honouring the promise. 
As the matter stands at the moment, public servants are fully entitled to pass the kind of resolution that the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Organisations and other organisations including the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association carried. That resolution reads: 
This meeting of representatives of Australian Federal and State Public Service Organisations representing over 400,000 public servants and their .families throughout Australia rejects any attempt to repudiate the Australian Government's clear undertaking to introduce a new quantum and conditions of long service leave for Australian Government public servants. We emphatically believe that the Government has an obligation to its own employees to honour the unequivocal promise made in the Cabinet decision of April 3 which resulted from an agreement and negotiations between the unions concerned and the Government. 
Further the meeting calls on State Governments to improve their employees' long service leave entitlements to at least the promised Australian Government standard without delay. 
It appears that not only was this a broken promise as announced in the Cabinet decision of 3 April this year but it was a breach of an agreement reached by the Government with the Australian Public Service unions. There can be nothing worse than a breach of an agreement made as a result of negotiations to settle an industrial dispute. Both sides of this House readily condemn unions which reach agreements with employers and then repudiate the agreement. Both sides of this House condemn employers who breach agreements which were voluntarily negotiated and reached. In the same way this House ought to condemn the Government for breaking an agreement which was freely and voluntarily negotiated with the Australian Public Service unions. 
In the light of what has happened the Opposition will watch carefully what happens early in the new year in respect of these negotiations with the various State governments to achieve a national long service scheme. I am sure that the Australian Public Service unions will do the same and that they will not let the Government put them off and continually defer the implementation of the promise which was made earlier this year. 
I ask leave to move together the 5 amendments which have been circulated in the name of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
I join with my colleagues on this side of the House in condemning the action of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  in bringing down his guillotine. It has been said before that this action is disgraceful, and so it is. The Leader of the House blandly referred to the fact that there was 14 hours debate on the same Bills back in November, but I remind the Leader of the House that we have all been back in our electorates for 3 months and there has been much talk in the electorates about these Bills. There has been a growing awareness in the people of the implications of the Bills. The people see it as the obligation and the responsibility of the Opposition to probe these Bills, to probe the arguments of the Government, to criticise, to condemn where that is necessary and to expose to the glare of public opinion and publice awareness just what the Government is about in the program of constitutional reform, as the Government calls it, represented by these 4 Bills. 
I remind the Leader of the House that a referendum was held on 8 December when a No-No vote was given in the most unmistakable terms by the people by which they denied to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  his desire for the aggrandisement of Commonwealth power. That is what the referendum sought and that is what these Bills represent, a desire by the Prime Minister to aggrandise the power of the Commonwealth and the position of the Prime Ministership which he holds. To adopt some of the terminology of Government supporters, the referendum on 8 December asserted the public will for the retention of State power in the areas that the Commonwealth sought to take over. 
Those of us who attended at polling booths on that day know that not only Liberal and Country Party supporters voted no, but also that many Labor Party supporters voted no. Some of those whom I know voted for my Labor Party opponent at the 1972 election voted clearly and unmistakably for a No-No vote in that referendum. In the 3 months in which we were back in our electorates the people have gradually become aware of these referendum Bills to be brought forward. They have heard the statement of the Prime Minister that he intends to join, in the next Senate election, the referendum on these Bills and have realised that something is going on in the land about which they are not clear. 
As I have said before, it is the obligation, the responsibility, the duty of an Opposition to probe, to criticise, to condemn and to expose what is contained in these Bills. The action of the Leader of the House, in so quickly in this session of Parliament guillotining debate, shows that the Government does not want a full debate on these Bills. It shows that the Government does not want the Opposition to reveal to the public what is involved in them. Of course, the pinnacle of the desire of the Government to deny a full debate on this subject will be shown when a guillotine is brought down on the fifth referendum Bill. There has not been 14 hours of debate on that Bill before. Is the Leader of the House going to give us 14 hours of debate on that Bill tomorrow and the following days? The Leader of the House does not answer, but we on this side of the House all know the answer. The Leader of the House will be as ruthless in his use of numbers on that fifth Bill as he proposes to be tonight and as we saw so often last year. 
So there will be no hesitation in condemning the action of the Leader of the House and of the Government in bringing down this guillotine, and in denying a full debate on these Bills. No one, not even the Government, not even the Leader of the House, can say that these Bills are not of momentous importance to the people. Any proposal to amend the Constitution is momentous. It deserves more than the 14 hours that were given us under a guillotine last year. It deserves more than a few hours, which is all that is to be given to us under the guillotine tonight. 
Under clause 2 of the Bill it is intended that power be given to the Commonwealth to refer certain of its powers to a State. In providing for this, clause 2 refers to the designation of a matter. The word 'matter' is not defined; we do not know what it is. No explanation of that word has been given to the House by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and, it would seem, no explanation has been given to the Premiers or the governments of the various States. I was interested to hear the Prime Minister relating chapter and verse the amount of correspondence and so on that he has had with the various State governments, the Australian Constitutional Convention, the Parliamentary Counsel and Attorneys-General. I noted the Prime Minister's own admission that he wrote on 1 March to the Premiers advising them of his proposed Bill and inviting their reaction. The first of March was last Friday and, because there is no mail service on a Saturday morning, it is most likely that the Premiers received that letter just last Monday. Mail services being what they are, it is unlikely that a letter from any of the Premiers could yet have reached the Prime Minister. So really there has been no time at all for the governments of any of the States to consider the Bill. 
It was only last Thursday, 28 February, that a copy of the Bill was given to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  That highlights the fact that quite insufficient time has been given to this Parliament to debate this Bill. The significance of that is that the Parliament does not know what matters might be referred by the Commonwealth. A reference to the Constitution indicates that the only matters in relation to which it makes any sense for the Commonwealth to refer power to the States are those matters in relation to which the Commonwealth has been given exclusive power. But when it is a concurrent power, all that the Commonwealth has to do in order to refer the power back to the State is to remove the appropriate legislation from the statute book. So we need to look at what are the exclusive powers of the Commonwealth. Are these the matters referred to in clause 2? 
Let us look quickly at what are the exclusive powers of the Commonwealth, lt has power to make laws with respect to the seat of government. The Commonwealth is not likely to refer that power. The Common- wealth has power to make laws with respect to Commonwealth places. The Prime Minister has already referred to that as a possibility, but it is not sensible to refer that power because there is 'already on the statute book complementary legislation passed by this Parliament and the parliaments of the various States. The Commonwealth has power to make laws with respect to the departments of the Public Service of the Commonwealth. That power will not be referred to the States. The Commonwealth has the power to make laws imposing duties of customs and excise and granting bounties. I think we can exclude the power in relation to bounties from the possibilities and, on all practical considerations of Commonwealth finance, I think we ought to exclude the power relating to customs and excise also. 
The Commonwealth has power to make laws with respect to the Commonwealth territories. The Commonwealth will not abrogate that responsibility to the States. It has power in relation to coinage and in relation to the raising and maintaining of military forces for the defence of the Commonwealth. To me that is an interesting one, coming as I do from Western Australia. I notice that there is in the chamber at the present time a representative of the State Parliament of Western Australia. I think many Western Australians would be glad to have the defence power of the Commonwealth over the territory of that State referred to the State of Western Australia. I am sure that we could do a much better job than the present Government is doing. So that is a possibility, but I doubt whether our present Prime Minister would be agreeable to that proposition. 
The Commonwealth has power in relation to borrowing money on the public credit of the Commonwealth, naturalisation, service and execution of documents throughout the Commonwealth, and the recognition throughout the Commonwealth of State laws. The Commonwealth has power concerning the relations of the Commonwealth with islands of the Pacific. It is unlikely that the Commonwealth will refer that power to the States. It has power over the acquisition of State railways with the consent of the State. Obviously that power cannot be referred. That is about the end of the line. So is there any practical exclusive power of the Commonwealth which will be referred to a State? The answer obviously is no. That indicates that this whole exercise of supposed interchange of powers is a charade. It will be a one way traffic; when one looks at the Constitution it can only be a one way traffic. The Prime Minister did not give one sensible, practical example in bis second reading speech or in the debates in this House of matters which the Commonwealth will designate for the purpose of referring them to the States. 
So it is of importance that this Parliament be given time to consider a Bill of major constitutional proportions which can fundamentally change the structure of government in Australia by altering the balance of distribution of powers between the States and the Commonwealth. When it can be seen that the traffic can operate in any sensible way only in one direction, it is obvious that the motive and the purpose of the Prime Minister in introducing this matter before the Australian Constitutional Convention last year was to provide a vehicle for State Labor governments to transfer powers to the Commonwealth and so, as I said in referring to another matter before this House, to fulfil the ambition of the present Government and to enable the Prime Minister himself to aggrandise the power of the Commonwealth at the expense of the States. When insufficient time is made available to this House to consider in Committee a matter of fundamental and far reaching importance, when explanations are required as to the meanings to be given to terms used in the Bill, it can be seen quite clearly - and the people of Australia ought to know it - that a totally inadequate opportunity is being given to this Parliament to debate the Bill. 
I conclude by saying that it is not the Attorneys-General of the various States or of the Commonwealth that have to be concerned with this Bill; it is not the Parliamentary Counsel of the States or of the Commonwealth who have to be concerned with this Bill; it is this Parliament, because this Parliament has the responsibility and the duty of considering whether or not a matter should be put to a referendum of the people. To try to exculpate the errors and ways of the Government and the Prime Minister by referring to correspondence with the State governments and by referring to the consideration of this Bill by a committee of the Australian Constitutional Convention in no way relieves this Parliament of its obligation and its duty to consider fully and amply the implications of this Bill. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Defence I refer to the publication of 24 February this year of the 'Sunday Independent', a Western Australian newspaper. Has the Minister seen the report which has as its headline: 'Huge Army Base for Western 
Australia'? Among other things, it is stated in that article: 
The official announcement of site, cost and details of the huge project is expected to be made next month as a 'vote-catcher' for Labor in the State election. 
This is referring to a big army .base to be built near Derby. The article goes on to say: 
An army infantry battalion - 
This morning from the Government side we have heard attempts to justify what is really a weak matter rather than one of public importance. It is as well to remind the House and the people of the nature of this matter introduced by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  He suggested for discussion as a matter of public importance: 
The serious consequences for rural industry of any increase in the price of crude oil. 
The fact that this matter was raised by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro - EdenMonaro being a rural electorate - is not lost on this House nor will it be lost on his own constituents and on the people who live in cities. Obviously the honourable member who started tilting at the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a couple of weeks ago when the Prime Minister announced the removal of the superphosphate bounty, had to redeem himself in the eyes of his own rural electors in order to try to ensure his re-election at the next 
Federal elections. But we know the result of his tilting at  Mr Whitlam,  his attempt to rally the Australian Labor Party Caucus Rural Committee to overturn the Cabinet decision to remove the superphosphate bounty. The honourable member suffered the most ignominious defeat that any backbench member of the Government could suffer. He knows it and the Government knows it.  His  raising of this matter today has amounted to an unsuccessful attempt to redeem himself. 
We have heard also from the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  during this debate. One can wonder why on earth he should buy into a debate on crude oil pricing. He tried to make something of the national wage case that is currently proceeding in an attempt to lambast the Opposition for lack of concern for the workers of Australia but his voice was a voice empty and devoid of any sensible argument. 
Indeed. Finally we had another example of the blustering and crude rudeness of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  There was no attempt to answer the case put forward by the Opposition for a review of domestic crude oil pricing in Australia. If the Minister's effort in this debate indicates anything, it simply reaffirms the views of the Opposition that he is incapable of holding the portfolio any longer. The longer he holds it the greater will be the disaster to the oil and gas industry in Australia and the greater will be the disaster that befalls the people of Australia over the next decade. 
One might wonder where is the concern of the present Government for the city dweller upon whom  Mr Whitlam  sought to rely so much in the last election. There is no mention of them in this discussion as there is no mention of the cost to the farmer of the removal of the superphosphate bounty and no mention of the cost to the farmer of the removal of taxation concessions over the whole range of taxation policies of this Government. There is no mention of the cost to the people of Australia of these actions. It rings rather hollow when honourable members have to sit and listen to the kind of stuff we heard from the Government benches this morning after a little research back into Hansard has been done to find out what these same people said before and what fellow members of theirs said before. I refer, as did also the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  to the Hansard debate on 19 April 1972 and to a speech by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who presumably was the then Opposition spokesman on Australian oil resources. I quote a couple of passages from Hansard at page 1788. The honourable member was speaking of the role of price as an incentive for exploration. Does the Minister for Minerals and Energy today deny that price has a role as an incentive for exploration and development? The way he spoke this morning one would think he would deny that completely. Does he deny his own colleague? We must assume that he does, for his colleague said: 
Thus despite severe inflation which has played havoc with exploration and development costs, the Government refuses to increase the price of Australian oil to at least equivalent to the non-dumped import parity price. 
Inflation in April 1972 was running at about 3 to 4 per cent; today inflation is at 13 per cent. The validity of the argument put forward then is compounded by the present rate of inflation under this Government. The honourable member for Dawson continued: 
The overall result of this negative and extraordinarily bad policy will be to drive all small Australian companies out of the oil exploration field and to hand our oil resources to the major international oil combines. 
Far from the. Gorton Government's pricing policy of 1969 doing that, the instability and uncertainty within the oil industry under the administration of the Minister for Minerals and Energy has done more than anything else to put at risk the very future of the smaller Australian oil companies. The honourable member for Dawson also said: 
The domestic price of Australian crude oil should be increased immediately to a figure equivalent to the world parity price. This price should be regarded as a floor price. 
No argument has been presented today to justify the stand the Minister has taken - to hide behind the crude oil pricing policy of the former Gorton Government to portray the present Government as a low price government. Finally the honourable member for Dawson said: 
Under a Labor Government an increase in the price of a basic commodity like petrol would have to be considered by a prices tribunal in which the profits of oil companies would be closely scrutinised. Alternatively increased costs of the guaranteed price of indigenous crude oil could be treated as an investment subsidy in the same way as the exploration subsidy is borne by the nation as a whole. 
Does the present Minister deny what his colleague said then about what would be the policy of a Labor government? Every action that the present Minister has taken denies the stand that was taken by the then Opposition in April 1972. I go further and turn to something that the Minister said on 27 May 1969 as reported at page 2282 of Hansard. He said: 
Do not forget that in the world today there is over-production, there are price wars and there is every probability that between now and 1975 the world listed price of petroleum and crude oil will fall very heavily. 
What prescience did the Minister have then when he uttered that statement? He has as much prescience then as he had early in 1973 when he said that there was nothing more certain than, death and that the value of the United States dollar would fall even further. What has happened to the United States dollar since those days? It has climbed in value and it will continue to climb. What has happened since May 1969 when the Minister, looking into his crystal ball, said that the world listed price of petroleum and crude oil would fall very heavily? We know that it has trebled, quadrupled and in some cases increased even further. 
In May 1969. What a remarkable man he is! I think when the people of Australia look back on the record of this Minister they will recognise that it is an empty drum that makes a loud noise and will see that what he is doing is hiding his head in the sand. The present pricing arrangements must come up for review in September 1975. September 1975 is not the time to embark upon an investigation of what the prices should be beyond that date. Now is the time when the Minister should be doing his homework. Now is the time when he should be telling the Australian people what they can expect. Now is the time when he should be opening up in this Parliament the debate on what the domestic crude oil pricing policies of the Government will be. But this Minister does not do any of that. He blusters, he mutters and he indulges in his crude rudeness and in hyperbole. If one goes back through his past speeches one sees but a continuing repetition of the same thing. 
If there were any need for me in debate to justify the assertion that the bringing of this reference before the House today was politically motivated in view of the Western Australian elections on 30 March, there is no need to do so now in view of the speech by the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton).  He is saying: Politicians are politicians and they will take every political advantage that they can.' So there is no doubt at all that this reference to the Public Works Committee on the last day that this Parliament sits before the Western Australian elections is, as I have said, politically motivated. 
I refer to the statement made by my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  Having known him the sh:rt time of only IS months that I have been in this House, I have come to respect the standards which he sets for himself as a parliamentarian. As  Deputy Chairman  of the Public Works Committee it is clear that he has seen the standards of that Committee breached by the action of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  in bringing this matter forward at present. It is not without significance that the honourable member for Wakefield was able to quote against the Minister his very own statement in this House in 1972 condemning a former Prime Minister, not for the same action but for similar action. 
The honourable member for Wakefield was especially concerned about the independence of the activities of the Public Works Committee. That independence should not be trammelled by any political motivation. It is that independence which he seeks to uphold in this debate tonight, and rightfully so because it seems that for the Minister, who is at the table, principles are principles only when they suit him and his political purposes. In that situation principles are not principles but degenerate to political expediency. 
It has been said in the debate before that the plans and documentation upon which the Public Works Committee must act are 10 to 12 weeks away. I ask the  Chairman  of the Committee: What is the Public Works Committee to do in the meantime? Is it to do nothing about this proposal because it does not have the documentation? Why then should the matter be introduced into the House tonight? Why not introduce it at the time that the plans and documentation are available? The  Chairman  of the Committee said that a site has to be nominated and that the Committee cannot consider a proposal unless a site is proposed. I inform the honourable gentleman now that at present no site is available for this building. There may never be a site available. My colleague the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  referred the House to a resolution passed by the City of Perth Council on 19 March which decided not to agree to the proposal to make City of Perth land available for the purpose of constructing this Post Office building. The Council may never agree to make that land available. If it does not there can be no general post office administrative centre as proposed in this reference. So what is the purpose of moving this reference today when the Government does not know whether it will have land upon which to construct that building? 
The third point to which I draw the attention of the House is a statement from the Premier of Western Australia  Mr John  Tonkin, a Labor colleague of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  On 28 February, some 8 days after the Prime Minister announced this proposal, the Premier was at pains to tell the people of Perth that there was no definite commitment to build an 8-storey Post Office administrative building across Forrest Place. He said that the people had not been presented with a fait accompli and added: 
. my Government has never at any time either said or suggested that it is to be regarded as anything but a plan submitted for public reaction. 
If it is but a plan to receive public reaction in Western Australia, what is the purpose of referring the matter today to the Public Works Committee of this Parliament? There is simply no purpose at all, because the City of Perth is not agreeing to the proposal at this stage and also  Mr Tonkin,  the Premier, is saying that it is not a firm commitment and that the. matter is simply for public reaction. The Premier went on to say: 
It should not be difficult to influence the Federal Government to the line of thinking favoured by the people, of Perth - after all,  Mr Whitlam  is the one who has moved to solve a long Federal-State impasse in this matter. 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction, who is proposing to refer this matter to the Public Works Committee now, setting up the Public Works Committee as the arbiter of public opinion in Perth? Is that the function of that Committee? I would hesitate to think that it is, but the way in which this has been presented to this House today one could be excused for thinking that, particularly when one has regard to the speech made by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who with a great deal of righteous indigation said: Well, we are not doing anything wrong. This proposal has been agreed to by some architects, town planners and others. They have agreed to it, so why should not we put it up?' But the Postmaster-General conveniently forgets these other things that I have pointed out, such as the fact that the land is not yet available and the fact that  Mr Tonkin  himself says that the plan is published at this stage only to get public reaction. I refer the PostmasterGeneral for his enlightenment to remarks made by a former Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs,  Mr R.  C. Stradwick. I refer the Minister to a long article published in the 'West Australian' of 5 March 1974.  Mr Stradwick  said: 
I address my question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister in his capacity of Minister for Defence. I refer to the 5-year defence procurement plan announced last night and reported in this morning's Press. In view of the increasing naval activity in the Indian Ocean and the increasing significance of the Indian Ocean region to the defence of Australia, I ask: Will the 8 long range reconnaissance planes which he is to procure be stationed in Western Australia? If not, where will they 'be stationed and what will the Minister do for the defence of Western Australia? 
In common with other honourable members from Western Australia, I welcome this redistribution of boundaries to give to that State its tenth seat. lt is some 3 years since it became apparent, as a result of the 1971 census, that Western Australia was entitled to an increased representation in this House. It is to be regretted that it has taken so long for a redistribution to occur and to be brought before this House for approval. Honourable members on this side of the. House especially those from Western Australia will certainly see that this motion is given speedy acceptance so that the redistribution may be put into effect for the election that we fully expect will be held very shortly. 
As observed by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  the electorate of Stirling has been changed quite significantly in the redistribution of boundaries. At the time the Distribution Commissioners considered the redistribution of boundaries my electorate was the fourth largest electorate in Australia, that is, in terms of the number of electors on the roll. Some 76,000 were on the roll. This was a large number of electors and an even larger number of people to look after, with all the multitude and variety of electoral interests and problems that they have. The number of electors in my constituency has now been reduced to 54,500. The electorate is certainly a much tidier package than it was before. I welcome the redistribution in that regard as I think all honourable members welcome a much tidier electorate to service. 
I can assure the Minister for Services and Property that after 18 May 1974 there will not be a new member for Stirling. I am quite confident that I will still be there, much as Government supporters would like to see the change in boundaries result in the election of a Labor member for Stirling. I regret that I will lose certain parts of my electorate. I refer to areas such as Woodlands, Wembley Downs and Double View, which supported me so well in the 1972 election. I regret losing also the area of Mount Hawthorn, which, again, in 1972 supported me so well. A great number of older people, and pensioners, in particular, live at Mount Hawthorn. I had great satisfaction in looking after those who came to me for assistance in their various problems. I do not receive any new areas out of this redistribution of boundaries. That is a matter on which the Minister for Services and Property has commented. I am pleased to see that at least on one matter the Minister and I agree. The Minister thought that some of the rapidly growing northern and coastal suburban areas of Perth could well have been included in the electorate of Stirling. In fact, an elector of Moore, as he then was and as he still is, put in a submission to the Distribution Commissioners - I notified the Commissioners that I agreed wholeheartedly with his submission - suggesting that some of those new and developing areas such as Warwick, Greenwood Forest, Hamersley, Kallaroo and other similar areas which have a community of interest with the adjacent developing urban areas of my electorate, should become part of this electorate of Stirling. Regrettably, the Commissioners did not see their way clear to accept my submissions, and the reason is quite obvious. If about 3,000 electors were taken out of the seat of Moore, which now has 53,789 electors, and brought into the electorate of Stirling, the number of electors in the seat of Moore would decrease quite significantly. So for very practical reasons it can be seen that the Commissioners could not accept the submissions that were made. 
The Minister also has highlighted the fact that the seat of Moore now becomes very much a patchwork of rural and urban interests, and he is quite right when he says that the member for Moore in the future will certainly have his time cut out in looking after these newly developing northern urban areas of Perth. The name that the Government has given to this new seat is significant. I did not have the privilege of serving in this Parliament with Dame Dorothy Tangney, but my colleagues in the other place who have spoken of the name that is to be given to the new seat and of Dame Dorothy herself have always spoken very highly of her as a Western Australian and of the service which she has given to the people of Western Australia. So the Opposition has no hesitation in accepting the name that the Government is to give to this new seat. 
I turn to the question of delay which Western Australia has suffered in receiving this tenth seat. It is true that the wheels of government grind slowly, but it is equally true that the slowness with which this redistribution has come into effect shows an urgent need to update the electoral procedures, and I hope that the Minister has a review of the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which relate to redistribution high on the list of matters that he is to consider. Regrettably for the Minister, he will not have much time in which to consider this matter, but I am sure that the incoming Minister in charge of electoral matters will very quickly have a look at it. 
It is quite obvious from our history that what has happened on Western Australia is a shocking example of administrative inadequacy in the electoral field and also of political delays. I understand that the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who is a former Minister for the Interior, will explain the electoral machinery to the House in order to show that the redistribution could not have occurred during the life of the previous Government, however much it wished to bring the redistribution into force. That example of administrative inadequacy can be seen right through the field, from the gathering of statistics on population figures to the operation of the electoral procedures in the Act itself. Whatever reason for delay there might have been for the former Government not being able to bring about this redistribution, there is really no excuse at all for the delay which has occurred in the last 16 months since the present Government came into office in 1972. 
We might well ask: What are the reasons for those delays? I do not think there can be any question but that those delays have been politically inspired by the present Government. This is particularly so when one considers that many months have passed since the Commissioners brought forward their first recommendations, and it was open talk in the West that once the Commissioners' recommendations were made public the present Government would not accept them. The Minister himself has mentioned the variation from the quota in the 2 seats of Kalgoorlie and Swan - a variation of 15.5 per cent below the quota in the first instance of Kalgoorlie and a variation of 14.12 per cent above the quota in the second instance of Swan. It was open knowledge that the Government was unhappy with that variation because it simply did not match up with its proposals in the 
Electoral Bills which were rejected by the Senate last year in which the Government wanted to limit the variation to 10 per cent either way. 
It is equally obvious, too, that with the election for this House which will be held on 18 May, the Government could not go to the people of Western Australia without having given the tenth seat to them. We know that the Government had the opportunity further to delay these proposals, if not to reject them outright, which it has the right to do if it so desires, and had there not been an election on 18 May, it would have rejected these proposals and sent them back to the commissioners. That is what would have happened. The Minister has very carefully set out the objections which the Government had to the redistribution, making it appear as if it is happy to accept the proposals when, I believe, the truth is that the Government never wanted these proposals at all. We on our side of the House are happy to go into an election on 18 May with the new boundaries, and we are happy that the people of Western Australia will have this tenth seat. 
The history of the Government and of the present Minister, in particular, in the delay and the dilatoriness with which he has proceeded with this redistribution can be amply demonstrated by looking at the relevant dates. The Government was elected to office on 2 December 1972. In March 1972 the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  condemned the previous Prime Minister for not having moved more quickly to give the tenth seat to Western Australia in time for the 1972 elections. With the frenzied activity of the WhitlamBarnard administration - the 2-man Government - in December 1972, and in the face of what the Prime Minister had said previously about this tenth seat in Western Australia, Western Australians could have expected that the Prime Minister would have acted with as much - expedition in giving this tenth seat to that State as he did in releasing draft dodgers from gaol. But not a word was said and not a thing was done by the Prime Minister in that 2-man Government. It was not until the release of a Press statement by the Minister for Services and Property on 23 May 1973 that the present Government moved to put into operation the machinery necessary to bring about the redistribution - to arrange for the proclamation which was the start of the operation of that machinery. That was in May 1973, and the machinery had to follow the normal course set out in the Electoral Act. 
But it was just before the Parliament rose in December 1973 that the Commissioner's proposals were made public and were tabled in this House. It was just before Parliament resumed at the end of February 1974 that the objections, submissions and suggestions that were considered by the Commissioners were brought before the House. It is nearly 3 weeks since that was done, and there was no indication from the Minister at all whether or not he intended to move for the acceptance of those proposals. It was not until Thursday of last week, in the heat of all the events that happened last Thursday in the aftermath of the Gair affair, that the Minister moved very quickly - he was stimulated by those events and, of necessity, he had to move quickly - and gave notice of the motion that is before the House today. There can be little doubt that had it not been for the election of this House which is to be held on 18 May, the matter would not have been brought forward by the Minister last Thursday. 
What has been displayed to this House and to the people of Western Australia, as in so many other matters, is that the Prime Minister is no friend of that State. He came to Western Australia in March of 1972, as I mentioned, proclaiming the delay of the former Government in bringing about a redistribution. But the so-called delay at that time is nothing like the delay of the present Government and the present Commissioners because he should have moved much more quickly and sooner than 23 May 1973, which was some 6 months after the Government was elected in December 1972, to set in motion the machinery to bring about the redistribution. Neither the Prime Minister not the present Minister for Services and Property can play the Western Australian people for suckers because you cannot try on the people of Western Australia in acts of - political double dealing. They can be seen easily for what they are, and they are known presently for what they are. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The legal effects that the provisions of this Bill can have are highly objectionable. I turn quickly to some of those provisions to try to explain, in the very short time that is given to the Opposition to expose this Bill, just what the legal effects of its provisions are. For example, there is nothing further from the truth than to say, in justification of the Bill, that it provides a means for the Government, through the Authority, to provide financial assistance for the bona fide small Australian prospector or company which the Liberal Party seeks to support. The Government, led by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who has been so accurately described in the past as incompetent - and this has been demonstrated by the numerous inaccuracies in information which he has given to this House - states that the Bill does enable the Authority to provide that assistance. Clause 8 of the Bill needs only be examined to see how wrong that statement is. Clause 8 states that the Authority has the following functions: 
to assist, otherwise than by providing a financial grant or subsidy. . . . 
That means that this Authority simply cannot provide, nor is it intended to provide, financial assistance to any bona fide small Australian prospector or company. 
It is true that through the provisions of this . Bill the Government intends to give the Authority complete and untrammelled powers , of expropriation of all discovered or discoverable minerals or petroleum throughout Australia, both on the continental land mass and beyond to the continental shelf and the continental plateau. The objectionable clauses contained in this Bill are clause 43, operating in conjunction with clause 50, by which the Authority can obtain effective control of any known or prospective mineralised area by the issue of a notice in the Australian 'Gazette' declaring an area to be an exploration area. If the owner or occupier of that particular area does not agree to the Authority entering upon the property, the Authority may simply, as I have said before, walk down a corridor, find a justice of the peace, have a warrant signed and the Authority can enter that property. That property can be, for example^ the Bass Strait oilfields from which production is already being derived, or any known oilfield in Bass Strait which is not yet being developed. That area being declared an exploration area, and a right to enter being thereby given to the Authority, the Authority can move in, put down its own wells and draw from the same field that Esso-BHP is drawing from at the moment. 
The Authority can go to the north-west shelf in my own State and put down production wells on all those natural gas fields which have been discovered by Woodside-Burmah. It can do that without any compensation being paid to the discovering company, because compensation is only payable to anyone who owns the mineral or the petroleum. Simply discovering the mineral or petroleum without extracting it from the earth does not give ownership to the discoverer. I have given examples in Victoria and Western Australia. Another example is to be found in Queensland. I refer to the phenomenonally important rock phosphate deposits which can suffer exactly the same fate. They are deposits which undoubtedly Australia will be dependent upon for its supplies of fertiliser for generations. It is a field on which vast amounts of money have been spent by the company proposing to develop it, and which could all be put to naught without any right of compensation for money expended simply by this Authority declaring that area to be an exploration area. The Authority thereby is given the right to move in and to develop that discovery. 
Not only that is objectionable; once the Authority has taken that action and has moved into an area already fully explored but which, for one reason or another has not yet been developed, the small prospector or company would not have any right to compensation. The area may not be developed because feasibility studies are being undertaken. It may be that finance is still being lined up on a world basis, as must be done when involving large deposits. International finance of vast quantities is needed, as we experienced in Western Australia for the development of the iron ore fields. It may be that the international markets necessary to support these fields - for example, the development of the vast nickel sulphide deposits at Perseverance by Selcast Exploration Ltd - are waiting upon a change in world market conditions to find the sales  outlets which will underwrite the massive finance required. 
Just briefly and quickly they are some of the ' examples that this legislation can impinge upon without giving the people concerned, be they individals or companies, be they Australian - I emphasise this - or overseas companies, any right to compensation. But any of those people or any of those companies put in that position by the authority which would be given under this Bill can be liable to a fine or imprisonment by reason of clause 51 of this Bill. Clause 51 of the Bill, states:   a person shall not carry out any work whereby any works, or proposed works, of the Authority, or the use, or the proposed use, of the works of the Authority, is or may be adversely affected or interfered with. 
If, for example, any of those companies that I have mentioned presently developing the rock phosphate deposits in Queensland, presently developing the north-west shelf gas finds, presently developing nickel fields in Western Australia, sought to move into their own areas for which they have been granted title and exploration rights under State law, to carry on the work that they have been doing for years, they could be liable, pursuant to clause 51 of this Bill, to a fine of up to $2,000 or imprisonment for 2 years. 
It is no wonder that this Bill has been described, far and wide outside this House, as a piece of diabolical legislation. It is not an accurate description of the Bill to describe it as a vehicle for State capitalism. It is, in fact, a vehicle by which this Government in Canberra can obtain and achieve total control over every known or unknown mineral resource in Australia, either on the continental land mass or off-shore. When one analyses this Bill even only quickly, once the constitutional implications are fully understood, one realises that it has been aptly described as a piece of diabolical legislation. It is no wonder that the Minister for Minerals and Energy has never attempted to counter any of the arguments of the kind that I have just put forward or any of the arguments that have been put forward by other people, more expert than I in the field of mineral exploration and development, and more expert than I in constitutional matters. 
It is no wonder that the Minister has not at any time either inside or outside this chamber attempted to answer the analysis of the Bill and the legal implications of it as I have set them out. The second reading speech which was presented when the Bill was before the House previously did not attempt to outline the true implications of the Bill. The second reading speech which was presented to the House today made no attempt to analyse the implications of the Bill. Yet one would have thought that with, the debate that has gone on both inside and outside this chamber since the Bill was first presented in December 1973 the Minister would at least have given the courtesy to the House of trying to outline what he sees as the full effect of the Bill and how he would put into operation the provisions of the Bill as I have outlined them. It is no wonder then that the Opposition cannot find any provision of this Bill which is acceptable, and when the Minister quotes from a policy document of the Liberal Party he- 
The whole purpose and intent of this Bill is to give to the Commonwealth Government powers of total acquisition of all mineral and petroleum resources in Australia, to provide for the development of those resources by government and as the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has so often said, to provide for Australian ownership. The Minister referred earlier in the debate on this Bill to a Liberal Party policy document part of which he quoted. It is interesting to refer to the part quoted by him. The Minister referred to the Federal Liberal Party's proposed new policy statement as published in today's Press. After emphasising that - and I stress these following words - Australian ownership is preferable, he went on to refer to the policy in the following terms: 
Where this is not possible carefully monitored participation by overseas interests or by government is acceptable in the nation's best interests. 
However, . the total paragraph and all words used by the Liberal Party in its policy document are as follows: 
The recognition that Australian free enterprise ownership and development of energy sources is always preferable but where the capital, expertise or initiative are unavailable within Australia, carefully monitored participation by overseas interests or by government is acceptable in the nation's best interests. 
By no stretch of the imagination can that be referred to by the Minister or the credit claimed by him as being a passing off or a takeover of the policy of the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party policy is totally different in intent and in purpose because it is to foster Australian free enterprise ownership either by individuals or by companies. This Government's policy, enunciated in its policy documents and as sought to be implemented by this Bill, is to provide for government ownership. To this Government, government ownership means ownership by the people. To a Liberal Party government, Australian ownership means ownership by Australians directly through ownership of the minerals or the petroleum as individuals if that were possible, and there are cases in Australian mining where that occurs, or by companies in which Australians have an equity interest through shareholding or by debentures. 
I ask the Minister for Housing and Construction: What has happened to the home interest tax deductibility scheme? When will the legislation be introduced? Will it still commence as from 1 July 1974, if it is introduced? Will the Minister provide in the scheme for the deduction to be treated in the same way as concessional deductions for dependants are so that wage and salary earners will receive an immediate cash benefit in their pay packet, and thereby be relieved of the hardship they are presently suffering because of the high interest rates on home finance, rather than receive it once a year when they lodge their tax return, at which time it may be too late to be of real help to them? 
This is the third or fourth time that we have had the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill in one form or another before the House. Each time that it has been before the House previously, whether in its own right or as part of another Bill, it has been opposed by the Opposition and rejected by the Senate. In the face of that, there is one thing that can be said for the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and that is that at least he is a trier. Maybe he believes that, if he follows the old saying 'If at first you don't succeed then try, try and try again', in the end he will succeed. 
Maybe he believes he will tire out the Opposition and the Bill will be passed by default and by exhaustion. At least the Opposition has been alert enough to see that in the second extempore speech that the Minister has made on this and another Bill, his statements were quite inaccurate. 
The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has already made it quite clear to the Minister where he went wrong in his exposition of his own Bill. Now the Minister can only fall back on the pitiable statement that there was a draftsman's error. It simply cannot be that there was a draftsman's error made in sub-clause 8 of clause 158L of this Bill. That clause states that in certain circumstances the industrial registrar shall exempt the organisation from the requirement that a ballot of its members be conducted. In the Bill as it stands the word 'shall' appears. There is no discretion for the registrar to say whether the exemption should be granted. That is in contrast to sub-section 8 of section 158K of the Act which clearly gives to the registrar a discretion to grant or not to grant an exemption. The Minister, as I said, gave the pitiable explanation that a drafting error accounted for his inaccuracy in the second reading speech. If honourable members compare the 2 sub-sections they will see that in the existing Act the registrar can exercise his discretion in favour of exemption only when there is a special circumstance by reason of which the exemption should be refused. Of course, those words do not appear in the Minister's Bill. By no stretch of the imagination can it be said that a draftsman's error was made. 
It was rather a poor sight to see the Minister, having been caught out like this, trying to hide behind the coat tails of parliamentary counsel. If the Minister is correct in altering the word 'shall' to 'may', as he has suggested, the registrar would not know on what basis he has to exercise his discretion whereas under the existing legislation he knows that he must be satisfied that there are special circumstances. How can anyone accept that this Minister knows what is in his own Bill and why he is introducing it when we find that one-third of his second reading speech was taken up in explaining the virtues of the existing legislation, though he believed that what he was doing was justifying the Bill? That was not the only error that the Minister made in his second reading speech. In referring to the right of members to vote in a ballot on whether they agree to the amalgamation, the Minister said at page 651 of Hansard: 
The Act will require- 
It will become the Act if the Bill is passed-  that every member of every organisation affected by the amalgamation shall be supplied with a ballot paper and given the right to vote. It wE be up to him to decide whether he exercises the right. 
There is one important distinction between the Bill and the existing legislation. The Bill refers all the time to a financial member as the member entitled to vote in a ballot, whereas the existing legislation refers to a member. Anyone who has any knowledge of union, affairs - indeed anyone who does not have any particular knowledge of union affairs but has simply read the Act as against the Bill - would know that there is a great deal of difference between a financial member of an organisation and a member of an organisation. 
 As the honourable member for Bendigo points out we would think that the Minister would know what the distinction is. But in his second reading speech the Minister said that every member of every organisation affected by the amalgamation will be supplied with a ballot paper. That is simply not correct. Two unmistakable errors were made by the Minister in his second reading speech. A second reading speech is intended to outline the purpose of the Bill and the means by which the Bill seeks to achieve that purpose or objective. On 21 March 1974 the Minister gave an extemporaneous speech when he introduced a Bill. Now he has given another one. I think we ought to suggest to the Minister in all humility that next time he presents a Bill to this House he should have a prepared speech. I am sure next time he will. The Bill will have a much better chance of being passed if the Minister properly informs the House of what it is all about. 
This Bill is intended to facilitate the amalgamation of unions. It is intended to make it easier for unions to amalgamate. One wonders why it is the desire of the Government to make amalgamations easier. We have heard more than once from the Minister an attempt to give reasons why this objective is being sought by the Government. In his second reading speech on this Bill, the Minister said:  . . . that we have too many small and inefficient trade unions. We should have fewer of them. We should have more efficient ones, ones that are able to represent their members in a more meaningful way than is possible with the work force divided among 303 separate organisations. 
That is a fine statement indeed, except that we have been given no information to justify the assertions made by the honourable gentleman. Why are there too many small unions? What is wrong with a small union that represents the particular interests of a small section of the work force, following a particular calling, a particular craft or a particular vocation? Why is it wrong for a small group of craftsmen to form their own union when the clerks throughout Australia can form their union because they follow their own particular calling? So, what is wrong with having a small union? Why is size to be equated with efficiency? The Minister does not tell us why a large union should be more inefficient than a small union? Is size alone the qualification - the determinant - for efficiency? Why should we have fewer unions? 
I challenge the Minister - if he dares to reply, in view of the appalling effort that he made when introducing this Bill - to justify these assertions because until now he has not made any attempt to justify them. What he is really asking this House to do is to approve the formation of conglomerate unions within Australia. Is he really on this occasion following the multi-national conglomerates of the world in their rise to size and power through the accumulation of capital by the eating up of smaller competitors or corporations which, for the time being, have run down? Does he really want the unions of Australia to follow the examples of the conglomerate corporations of the world? Is he really calling upon the unions of Australia to embark upon the takeover course undertaken by corporate takeover merchants within Australia? If he is asking this House to do that he is asking us to approve the concentration of power within a small number of unions. He is not asking us to approve the concentration of power in small unions but the concentration of power in a small number of unions by larger unions gobbling up and submerging the special interests of the group of individual workers who, by reason of their particular craft, calling or vocation, wish to form themselves into a union of their own. 
If that is to happen in Australia, we can see then a path to confrontation between these large unions, few in number with concentrations of power, and Parliament itself and the Government itself. In other industrialised countries of the world concentrations of power in a few unions have led to the most dire consequences for the community itself. That is what will happen if amalgamation is made easy. The large unions will naturally follow the takeover path and the small unions will find it very difficult indeed, if not impossible, to withstand the pressure that is put upon them to amalgamate. We know that, quite apart from the legal protection that might be given to small unions through the legislative provisions of the existing Conciliation and Arbitration Act, large unions can exert a nonlegal power in a way which small groups cannot withstand. I do not think for a minute that the Australian public would want to see that state of affairs develop in Australia. Large unions and small unions have played their own part in their own way in the history of unionism in Australia. 
I wonder why when a debate of this kind is proceeding in the House on a Bill introduced at least for the third time by the Minister for Labor and Immigration the honourable gentleman is not in the House. He has been scurrying around like a squirrel since the honourable member for Wannon pointed out how wrong the Minister was in the statements that he made in his second reading speech. The Minister either is frightened to come back into the House, shamefaced as he must be, to face the continuing debate or is scurrying about to find out what he can do about the error that he has made. There is simply no way that he can alter his Bill to rectify his own error except by deleting that provision of the Bill so as to allow section 158k of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to continue in operation. Why is the Minister not in the House at present? 1 think we are entitled to know. It is his Bill. Why has he gone? Why has he left the House? Perhaps he is trying to whip up the numbers to gather a quorum so that the House can carry on. 
There is great virtue in smaller unions being allowed to continue and to flourish within the trade union movement in Australia. There is great virtue in allowing those workers who follow a specific calling to form their own union to look after their own special interests. 
I think that anyone from within the union movement or anyone who has had anything to do with the union movement will know how the special interests of a group of workers can be submerged and forgotten within a larger organisation. It is not without significance that, within the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, provision is made for a group of workers to apply to break away from an existing registered organisation. That provision exists in the present legislation. I know that it exists also in the legislation of Western Australia under which many unions are registered as State unions whilst at the same time their members are part of a Federal union. I notice that the Minister for Labor and Immigration has returned to the chamber. I am glad to see that he has. I wonder what it is that he has written on the paper before him. I will be interested to see whether, at the Committee stage, he will move any amendments to overcome the deficiencies of his own propositions. 
As I said, there is great value in allowing for a diversity of unions which, at the grass roots level, can represent the true interests of the workers who form the membership of those small unions. There can be great damage to the union movement in Australia if continued concentrations of power are allowed to develop into ever larger and larger unions. We know from recent history that these large unions will seek not only to exercise that power in respect of industrial matters but also will seek to exercise that power for political purposes which are quite alien to the objectives for which those unions are registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Although there was a great spate of talk after the amalagamations which brought about the formation of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, there has been little subsequent movement towards amalgamation. I wonder whether this is because it is thought that under the existing legislation amalgamation is too hard and whether those who might be parties to further amalgamations simply have been holding off in anticipation of the Minister for Labor and Immigration eventually tiring out the Opposition and the Senate so that, at his fourth try, his legislation will be passed. 
When we look at the formula that presently exists and which must be met before amalgamation can proceed, what can be said against it except that it makes amalgamation a little bit harder than the Minister now proposes? I was rather shocked to hear the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  say that a 30 per cent return on a ballot in a union is a very good result. In a ballot for amalgamation why should a 30 per cent return, which represents a minority of the members who are affected by amalgamation be considered sufficient to allow a proposed amalgamation to proceed? Surely the honourable member for Burke cannot be proud of unionism if a union can achieve only that result. The Government ought to aim at setting up some procedure whereby at least a 50 per cent return of a ballot can be achieved. I believe that a decision on any union amalgamation should be determined by the voluntary exercise of choice by the members who form the union, because a union is only the creation of the members of that union. They join together for their common good. Therefore, only a majority of that membership should at any time be allowed to alter the basis of organisation of that union. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. (Quorum formed.) 
It is quite clear that the Bill before the Committee does not refer to a ballot to be conducted amongst the rank and file members to determine whether the amalgamation should proceed. The words 'shall be a secret ballot by postal voting' are the. precise words used in section 158k sub-section 2, of the existing Act. Those words do not appear in the equivalent clauses of the Bill. I wonder why not. What is it that is wrong with a secret ballot by postal votes that causes the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to delete those words from the Bill and use the word 'ballot'. The word 'ballot' can mean something different from a secret ballot by postal voting. 
Nowhere have we been told why there should be a change from a secret ballot by postal vote to some other kind of ballot. I would have thought that if the honourable gentleman's concern for the protection of rights of the rank and file is as genuine as he has stated it to be on a number of occasions before this House he would retain the protection of a secret ballot by postal voting. So I support wholeheartedly the amendment that has been proposed. 
Equally, for the reasons that I expressed in my speech during the second reading stage of the Bill, I support the amendment that is intended to include or to retain in the legislation the present requirement of a majority of the members approving of the amalgamation before it proceeds. I ask the Minister to explain to me one point in consequence of the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  The effect of this amendment is to now provide in the Bill that proposed new section 158l, sub-section 8, read the same as section 158k, sub-section 8, of the Act to permit the Registrar discretion in special circumstances to exempt a ballot. But the existing section has in addition to that provision another one and I draw the attention of the Minister to it. It provides that if an exemption is granted reference in section 158n of this Act to ballots in accordance with this ballot shall be read as reference to the ballot or ballots in respect of the deregistering organisation or organisations. The honourable member for Burke is not proposing in his amendment to include that provision or its equivalent in the Bill. I ask him why not? 
It was rather fascinating to listen to the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  being one of those persons who has had such 'a little' experience in trade union affairs, for him- 
Well, I am using the honourable member's own words. I heard him answer a question from the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who is at the table. I took the honourable member's remark at face value, modest as he might be. The honourable member condemned the use of slogans. There can surely never have been a speech in this House so lacking in substance and so full of slogans as the one we have just heard. The honourable member referred to the great social objectives of not merely industrial peace, but also full industrial peace. What does that mean? An industrial graveyard has been left to Australia, he said. What is an industrial graveyard? And so the honourable member went on with so many slogans that it would take up my full 20 minutes to repeat them all. 
One thing he did say was that training of trade union officials will play a vital part in the future of good industrial relations in Australia. With that I agree wholeheartedly, but the training of trade union officials in a vacuum will be the worst kind of training that they could receive. I think that any training must be across the board, as it were, so that the officials begin to understand not only their own trade union movement but also the objectives of the business enterprises of Australia and the ideas and attitudes of management. One thing above all that must be appreciated for any effective industrial policy to be put into operation is that the days of the class war between management and employee have gone. The days did come for a while, but they have been disrupted, in recent times when relations between management and employees were regarded as a partnership. Without the work force the private capital that is employed in business cannot prosper and without the capital neither can the work force prosper and achieve the higher living standards we would all look for in Australia. 
I should like to turn now to some of the things that the Minister for Labor and Immigration said in introducing this Bill on 25 July. I think, as in the case of the companion Bill that we dealt with in this House last night, this is the fourth try that the Minister has had to get this Bill passed. He first brought it in as part of a compendious Bill in the full flush of excitement after the Labor Party won the 1972 election. That Bill was opposed by the Opposition in this House and rejected by the Senate. Rather than the Minister being prepared to face the prospect of a double dissolution on that Bill by presenting it again in its entirety- 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was about to deal with some of the remarks made by the Minister for Labor and Immigration when introducing the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) which we are debating this afternoon. At page 652 of Hansard he is reported as stating: 
The principal provisions of the Bill are to ensure that when agreements are made between unions and employers they have the endorsement of the rank and file members of the unions concerned in the agreement. 
No doubt as a statement in itself that is admirable. Anyone associated with the making of an agreement to settle an industrial dispute hopes that whatever is done by the management of a union will have the endorsement of the rank and file members. However, the Minister went on: 
After all, an agreement which is made between a union official and an employer does not sell the labour of the union officials, but sells the labour of the members of the organisation which the union official represents. If one is fixing the price of somebody else's labour - if that is what the contract is all about - the person whose labour is being bargained for and sold ought to be given a say in whether the price agreed upon is a proper price. 
I condemn that statement of the Minister as a correct perspective of what industrial relations are all about. If the honourable gentleman had been speaking in the nineteenth century there may have been some merit in his analogy between a worker and an article which could be bought and sold. I think the time has long since passed when employees - men and women of the work force of Australia - could be regarded as chattels to be bought and sold, to be haggled over and to be cast aside if somebody does not want them. Nothing could be further from the truth than that as an accurate statement of what industrial relations in Australia are all about. Certainly, we on the Opposition side do not believe for one moment that an employee, a man or woman of the work force, is to be regarded as a chattel, to be bargained for and sold. So the remuneration which an employee is to receive for the work to be done is not to be regarded as the price of the labour. It is to be regarded as a fair remuneration for the work which is done. 
Ever since the inception of the arbitration system in Australia it has been founded upon that basis. Allied with it was a consideration by the Commission that the conditions of employment should also be fair to the worker and fair as between worker and employer. For the Minister to come into this House and to use as the peg on which to hang this Bill the suggestion that an employee is to be treated as a chattel is a rather disturbing thought. If the Minister continues to base his industrial relations policies on that concept of the relationship between employer and employee we are in for a sorry time in Australia. There is little hope that any sanity can come from the Minister at a time when industrial relations are in a state of peril. No doubt the Government is looking at this Bill as an example of what has been called participatory democracy which it seeks to have introduced into the Australian union movement. In the name of participatory' democracy the Government speaks of involving the rank and file in agreements which are made in order to settle industrial disputes. If that is the idea of participatory democracy I suggest that it distorts the very basis of union organisation. Under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act a voluntary organisation of employees elects its offi- cials to conduct the affairs of the union and to represent the interests of the employees who make up the organisation. It ought not be forgotten - regrettably it is often forgotten by leaders of the trade union movement in Australia and by members on the Government side of the House - that unions owe their existence to the right to be registered by virtue of the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is for that reason that the Opposition does not want to see any alteration to the legislation which allows unions to by-pass or to subvert the arbitration system which has been established in Australia in the name of participatory democracy. 
In saying that I am again reminded of the speech which was made by the honourable member for Phillip before the suspension of the sitting for lunch when he so vehemently upheld this piece of legislation as necessary to bring about full industrial peace in Australia. He strongly condemned the assertions from the Opposition side that if this Bill were passed it would take control out of the hands of the management of unions and put it with the rank and file. I am reminded of a television debate in which the honourable member for Phillip was involved on Tuesday, 29 July 1971. The debate took place on the television program 'This Day Tonight' and it was between the honourable member and  Mr Jack  Mundey, a person who is well known to the people of Australia as being the then communist secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation. In the course of the debate when talking about the role of the rank and file and their involvement in union affairs  Mr Mundey  stated: 
We believe that there should be more involvement by the rank and file of the union movement. 
I pause here and ask honourable members to compare that statement with the words which I have quoted from the speech of the Minister when he introduced this Bill.  Mr Mundey  went on: 
The union movement is too full of bureaucracy, too full of people trying to work themselves into political positions - Joe's having a go at Parliament, good luck to him, but I mean this is the genre within the union movement. I believe in the movement round so as the workers themselves can be involved in decision making . . . 
The Minister at the table, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, says that this is what this Bill is aiming to do. It is aiming to involve the rank and file workers themselves - to use  Mr Mundey's  words - in decision making.  Mr Mundey  goes on: 
. and that's the great movement of the union movement at the moment. 
That was said by  Mr Mundey  on 29 July 1971. Now comes the answer of the honourable member for Phillip,  Mr Riordan: 
Yes, well I think what my friend is really espousing is the Communist Party policy of job control of the trade union movement. 
The Minister sitting at the table throws his silvery locks back, turns his beautiful eyes to the ceiling and laughs. What he is doing is laughing at the honourable member for Phillip. I quote the honourable member for Phillip again. He stated: 
Yes, well I think what my. friend is really espousing is the Communist Party policy of job control of the trade union movement. 
They wish to destroy the present structure of trade unionism the same as they wish to destroy the present structure of society . . . 
This Bill seeks to give to rank and file members the opportunity to overturn decisions of committees of management in the way proposed and this is done in the name of participatory democracy in the union movement. It is done in the name of allowing, in the words of the Minister:   the endorsement of the rank and file members of the unions concerned in the agreement. 
It is done in the name of involving the rank and file of the union movement. It is done in the name of movement, or as  Mr Mundey  put it:   the great movement of the union movement at the moment. 
It is done in the name of job control of the trade union movement. 
It is not absurd. This is what will come about if this Bill is passed. What else does the honourable member think  Mr Halfpenny  would do? What else does the honourable member think  Mr Carmichael  would do if he wanted to organise the rank and file at the shop level against an agreement that had been entered into by the committee of management and that  Mr Carmichael  himself did not think ought to be made? He will go to the rank and file and he will organise them against the committee of management. There is an interesting parallel between what  Mr Mundey  sees as happening within the union movement and what we have seen happening within this Parliament to the Labor Party and the Government over the last few days. In the name of democracy the Labor Party says that the will of Caucus must prevail; there must be participatory democracy by all members of the Labor Party in the decisions made by the Government. The Government, by analogy, is the committee of management of a union. The Caucus, by analogy, is the rank and file of the union movement. 
We know the struggles in the last few days of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Cabinet in order to have the firmness of government upheld against the anarchy of a rank and file movement. Once the rank and file members are allowed to rule there will be instability in government, instability of management, and instability within society because the union movement in Australia commands the attention of a great many individual workers - not the majority of the work force in Australia but close to it. The unions of Australia at the present time wield tremendous power. Yesterday in this House we had a debate on the concentration of power which would come about if the amalgamation of unions that the Minister would like to see are allowed to be pursued through the legislation he introduced. The way in which certain union officials like  Mr Mundey, Mr Halfpenny  and  Mr Carmichael  are using the rank and file to achieve their own ends is bringing great instability into Australia's society at the present time. It is the weakness that is eating away at the heart of the trade union movement. It is the weakness that is eating away at the arbitration system in Australia. One can compare the instability of the union movement over the last few years with the situation which preceded it for a quarter of a century, perhaps half a century. One can imagine what will happen to the fabric of society if that instability is allowed to grow and fester. In an earlier speech of the Minister for Labor and Immigration on 21 March 1974, when he introduced the same Bill into the House, he said: 
The Bill is essential to meet the trend towards collective bargaining in Australia. 
This Bill is not essential to meet that trend. If there is to be a continuing trend towards collective bargaining, the conciliation procedures within the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission must be strengthened, not weakened, as would happen with this Bill and they must be directed at the particular problem of collective bargaining. Those conciliation procedures must operate by and through responsible management within the unions. To allow the system of collective bargaining to be put into the hands of the rank and file would be to allow a dangerous trend to develop within the trade union movement of Australia with the inevitable result that the conciliation and arbitration system of negotiation, as we have known it in Australia, would be overturned completely. That, I believe, is the objective that union leaders like Carmichael, Halfpenny and Mundey are seeking to bring about. 
The first step in bringing that about is to have legislative approval granted to the notion of job control as introduced by this Bill. It is the obligation of the Opposition to point out these things, to point out the fallacies of the very basis upon which the Minister has introduced this Bill and is seeking to justify it, to point out the archaic foundation of the Minister's whole attitude towards industrial relations and then to oppose this Bill in this House and in the Senate. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Has the Acting Treasurer seen reports in this morning's Press of a tax watch on Jews by Commonwealth taxation investigators? Will the Minister have the report investigated as a matter of urgency, and if there is any truth at all in the report will he have all vestiges of this abominable form of discrimination immediately removed? 
It is always surprising to hear the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  accuse the Opposition of intimidation whenever one of its members rises to speak on a subject within his portfolio. It is quite obviously a defence mechanism that he indulges in every time he is asked to debate the policies of his Government. Every time we talk about those policies we find that there is no policy at all. What the Minister does is to give a curt answer to a question which has been given to one of his cohorts to ask as a Dorothy Dix question. We saw a perfect example of this last Thursday when the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  was a little late coming in to the House. The Minister was waiting for him to give him the question he was supposed to ask. 
It is true because I saw it with my own eyes. 
I always watch the Minister for Minerals and Energy when he comes into the House to see to whom he is going to give his next Dorothy Dix question. This is the great objection of the Opposition to the techniques of this Minister who has under his control probably the most vital portfolio within the Government. 
Energy is the life blood of any community and energy will be the life blood of Australia in years to come. We must secure now the sources of energy in order to sustain our economic growth in the future. Although nuclear energy is not part of the Australian energy scene today, it is most likely to be a significant part by the end of this century. All the Western world is finding that it must turn to nuclear energy more and more to satisfy its energy demands. The Minister spoke about Japan which is our great trading partner. Japan above all nations has been caught in the energy crisis brought about by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. It is a fact that the Japanese plan that by 1985 one-quarter of that nation's total generating capacity will be of nuclear origin. So it is understandable that Japan should be interested in not only securing supplies of uranium but also advancing its own technology in this field. But what we have to do for Australia is to establish now our national program for development of the uranium industry and, in the future, the nuclear energy field. 
I was interested to hear the Minister for Minerals and Energy quote from a policy statement by the Canadian Minister for Mines and Resources, the Honourable Donald S. Macdonald on 5 September 1974. I was privileged to be in Ottawa within a week of that statement being delivered and I was also privileged to be given an audience by  Mr Macdonald.  One of the key subjects which we discussed was uranium and nuclear energy. He gave me a copy of the statement that he had issued, together with his background paper on Canada's uranium policy and also the policy statements and Press releases of the Government of Canada on uranium for the last 10 years. What a tragedy it is for Australia that we do not have a Minister who will issue a statement on the Australian Government's policy on uranium. All that we have is about a 5-line answer to a question appearing in Hansard for those who care to read it. 
The Opposition asks that this Minister does his homework and that this Government does its homework in the field of uranium and nuclear energy, and that this Minister and this Government give a prepared statement which the Opposition, the industry and the people can study. From that study they will be able to understand in what direction the Government wants to take the country. Yet we have heard nothing on policy. The industry and the people are kept in the dark. I know from my own knowledge that there have been inquiries by correspondence and verbally of the Minister asking him what the Government's policy is in the field of uranium. He has been asked whether he will allow export of uranium and whether he will allow feasibility studies into the establishment of a uranium enrichment plant to be carried on. The Minister has been obtuse enough, if not rude enough, not even to give the courtesy of a reply to those inquiries. How can any foreign country, how can any participant in the uranium industry of other countries, how can any participant in the domestic uranium industry, carry on its business and conduct its affairs if the Minister will not even speak to it? That is at the heart of the trouble in Australia at the moment. 
What we want is a policy having a number of points clearly stated and presenting clear guidelines to the industry. Those who wish to explore want to know upon what basis they can explore and, more particularly, on what basis they can produce when they discover. A basis for production by the industry needs to be established. We do not want a monopoly by the Government. If the Minister only studied what is going on in other parts of the world he would understand that countries which in the 1980s and beyond will be dependent upon nuclear energy are looking to private investment to supply them with their needs. I mention the United States of America and Canada in particular. We do not want a monopoly within this vital industry; we want a diversity of productive capacity amongst those who wish to engage in the industry. We then want the industry to earn enough from its efforts so that it can pour its earnings back into technology. 
Technology is the thing of which Australia is in the most short supply. When the Minister talks of a uranium enrichment plant, I would like to know where he is to get the technology from. Technology is the most vital and precious aspect in Australia. What price is the Minister going to pay overseas countries who have the technology to give it to Australia? They will only want to trade off their technology for some benefit to themselves. I ask the Minister what the trade-off benefit to Australia will be. We have not heard from him on that point and I think it is about time that Australia did. The Minister talks of an enrichment plant involving either the gaseous diffusion process or the centrifuge process. From whom will the Minister purchase the technology to establish a gaseous diffusion enrichment plant? America almost has a monopoly on the technology at the moment. America at the present time is prepared to let private industry in on some of the secrets which up to now have been held by the Atomic Energy Commission for the very purpose of supplying the country with the enrichment plants it will require in the decade of the 1980s. What of the centrifuge process- a technology which is in its infancy and which is being jealously held by those countries which are trying to develop it? Has the Minister embarked upon any discussions with those countries which are developing that technology to see whether they will allow it to be used within 
Australia? These are the sorts of answers that we need. 
The fundamental point as I see it is that 1974 is the time when we must set about building the base of industry which will provide both the income and the wealth within that industry and the technology which we can use in the 1980s and beyond to the end of this century. Unless we build the base within the industry itself, we will not be able to compete in the world energy scene and, in particular, on the world nuclear energy scene because uranium enrichment will become an international industry. Australia must put itself in a position now where it can participate in that international industry when it comes about within the next 10 years. What are so often forgotten are the tremendous lead times that are involved in developing the technologies in this field and building the plants, whether they be nuclear reactors or uranium enrichment plants. Lead times of from 8 to 10 years are involved. When the Minister speaks of being in a position in 216 years time to make a choice between the gaseous diffusion and the centrifuge process, he should bear in mind that it will be another decade before we will have that enrichment plant. We on the Opposition side call for some firm policy statements now, not in  2Vi  years time. 
-The speeches made in this House by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  are always interesting to listen to, but I regret to say that I am never quite sure where they lead us. I think that can be said of the honourable member's speech on the Budget. He called for an allegiance of the Press to the Government, an allegiance of the Press to the social contract of the unions and an allegiance of the unions to the Government. He called for such things as good will and productivity in the community as a solution to inflation. All of those things were mentioned and yet in the end I was puzzled as to the direction in which he would want to take Australia, and this is the centre of the great debate at the present time. The Opposition and the Government certainly have different views on the direction in which Australia should be taken and the methods by which it should be taken in that direction; but at least one thing is certain, and that is that the present Government knows neither the direction in which Australia should go nor the method by which it should be taken there in that direction. That is abundantly clear from the Budget itself and from the speeches on the Budget from the Government side. 
I heard earlier today in the speeches from honourable gentlemen on the Government side criticism of any member of the Opposition who even suggested that there was an element of despair or gloom pervading the economy of Australia. Yet we have the honourable member for Casey really forecasting a situation of doom and despair not only in Australia but in the world. It is very good of him to call for good will on all sides because certainly, above all things, other countries of the western world have found that good will and a unity of purpose are what is required to defeat inflation, but when the honourable gentleman speaks of good will I would endeavour to inject a note of practicality into the debate. Good will is a fine sounding sentiment, but in the world of economics what is needed above all is sound economic management. If one thing is sure it is that we have not had sound economic management from this Government since it has been in office. There is no need for me to catalogue the series of fiscal and monetary changes of pace that have occurred since December 1972. 
My colleague the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in a most eloquent way last night in a penetrating speech analysed the criticism of stop-go policies and showed how stop-go policies are the very epitome of the actions of this Government. He coined a phrase that might well be used more often in this House and outside: Slumflation. We have heard of stagflation; we have heard tonight of hyperinflation, but the honourable member might well have coined one of those words that will live for a long time- -slumflation. That is a quite accurate description of the situation in which we might well find ourselves in Australia within a short time. 
But let me go back to the 1973 Budget. Before that Budget we were told 2 things by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Firstly, we were told by the Treasurer that the Budget was only one part of the Government's overall economic strategy to manage the economy. We know full well that the other parts of the economic strategy simply have not worked. Secondly, we were told by the Prime Minister that inflation was the most serious economic matter commanding the attention of the Government. That was said before the 1973 Budget. It took an election on 1 8 May this year to persuade the Prime Minister that inflation was a real issue within the community. Having won that election by a reduced majority, the result of the election compelled the Prime Minister to acknowledge as a serious matter what he was only prepared before to flirt with in words. But having won the election, spoken to the people and acknowledged inflation the Prime Minister very promptly in this Budget abandoned the idea that inflation was a real problem. In the 12 months which have passed since that 1973 Budget it is obvious that this Government has no strategy for managing the economy and it does not really regard inflation as a serious matter. Rather the Government feeds off inflation and tinkers with the economy as each shift in prices, wages, unemployment or money supply occurs. In other days this was condemned by the Government when it was in Opposition as stop-go policy. 
Today the economic gyrations of this Government are recognised as the consequence of abject abandonment of any pretence to economic leadership. There is no economic strategy exercised by this Government. There is no leadership- let alone economic leadership- in this Government. Above all, there is no real commitment to fight inflation. One has only to read the Budget Speech to recognise that. There is no commitment at all by the Treasurer to fight inflation. Rather, there is only a frightened group of men twitching in response to every economic pressure in the country. It is a group of men led by a leader who is more concerned about tripping overseas with his public relations entourage to try to get  Senator Willesee  elected  president  of the United Nations. I wonder whether the people of Australia are more concerned about the election of  Senator Willesee  as  president  of the United Nations than they are about fighting inflation. I do not think that the people of Australia give a damn whether  Senator Willesee  is elected  President  of the United Nations. I do believe they give a damn about the state of the economy of their country. This is a matter of paramount importance to Australia today. Unless the Prime Minister of Australia realises that fact he has no hope within his own Party of sustaining his leadership of that Party and he has no hope within the country of sustaining his purported leadership of the nation. 
The people of Australia sense that they are living in the shadows of a world economic crisis of proportions not faced since the depression years of the 1930s. The people know this. They may not be able to articulate it because they are not all academics, neither are they all economists. But many of them are ordinary Australians with a commonsense appreciation of how to manage their own household. 
Today, in the affairs of our great country, I say without any hesitation that the Prime Minister ought to be here at home and not playing about abroad. The economic affairs of this nation are of much greater importance today than is speech making at the United Nations, however important the United Nations may be in bringing about some order in the international community. We are living in times of great uncertainty in the world. As I look upon it, the world is at a watershed in its post-war economic history. There has been a fundamental shift in the wealth of the western world resulting from the actions of the Arab oil producers late last year. In one massive stroke they have syphoned off from the western world tens of billions if not hundreds of billions, of dollars which once financed the industrial expansion of Europe, Japan, North America and other countries of the western world. There is no need for me to turn to statistics like an economic technician to justify this point. 
I think it is observable by anybody who wants to look at what has happened. The Arabs gave the international monetary system a shove from which it cannot recover either in the short term or perhaps in the long term, at least without a fundamental adjustment of the world monetary system. The balance of economic power in the world will not be the same again. Australia must recognise this quickly and adjust itself to the new world economic order, because Australia must find its place in the new world economy. All the outpourings of the Government about multinational corporations will be old hat, because if the Government would only recognise it the multinationals of the world do not have the liquidity that they had a few years ago. Therefore, they cannot move their income or their wealth around the world as they could before. The multinationals have gone home; they have taken their money back to their home countries because their home countries are in dire need of it. 
What Australia has to look to is the way in which it can, in the national interest, take advantage of the money which has been siphoned off from the western world into the Arab nations by way of the petro-dollar. It is interesting that the present Government has been dealing with the Shah of Iran, but at the same time it has been denying any sentiment towards economic nationalism. It has been denying any sentiment towards resources diplomacy. At the same time through the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  it is using the weapon of economic nationalism to the hilt and using the weapon of resources diplomacy to the hilt. 
But Australia cannot find its place in the new world economy which is to come without clear headed economic thinking and unmistakable political leadership. Regrettably we are having neither of those things from within the ranks of the Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has abandoned any pretence to economic leadership, let alone political leadership of his own Party. He has abdicated responsibility for economic affairs to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The poor Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has been left only to deliver his annual little boy monologue at Budget time. Waiting in the wings of the Australian Labor Party is the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Bob  Hawke. One can recognise the unmistakable stance of a feline animal waiting to pounce when the next election comes and the Prime Minister loses his head. But Australia cannot wait for these things to happen within the Australian Labor Party because Australia cannot find its place in this new world economic order without controlling the situation at home. We must, as a nation, have a blueprint for the future and a battle plan for the present. This Australian Labor Party Government has neither. 
There is no doubt that the dominant subject for political debate in Australia in 1974 is inflation. Yet, as I said, one finds no word of that in the Treasurer's Budget Speech. But if inflation is dominant in many ways, it is a strange and quixotic thing. The Government does not recognise it and the Opposition wants to debate it. All of these things must leave the public rather perplexed. Maybe this is one of the deficiencies of our party system of government. It takes the people longer to decide which side of the argument to accept- the Government's side or the Opposition's side. Which side they accept in the end is very largely dependent upon the turn of economic events and then one or other of the sides of the argument can say: 'I told you so'. 
In contrast we find, when we look to some of the other western nations and in particular the United States of America, that there is a commitment to defeat inflation.  President  Ford has declared inflation to be public enemy number one, and so it is. What a heartening thing it would be if we had the Prime Minister, the Treasurer or the  Deputy  Prime Minister declare that inflation in Australia is public enemy number one. That is what it is and that is what it must be recognised to be. With an inflation rate approaching something of the order of 20 per cent as against the United States inflation rate of something of the order of 1 1 per cent, how much more sure it is that it is public enemy number one in this country. Having identified it for what it is the American nation has set itself upon a path of public debate and public involvement by all sectors of the community to see how this enemy can be defeated. Labour, business and agriculture are all drawn into the battle, along with the academic economists and the practical politicians. 
In Australia there is no identification of inflation as an enemy of the community. There is no leadership within the Government and there is no will within the Government to defeat inflation. If only those 3 things would appear how much better off Australia would be. We hear so many conflicting statements from these 3 people within the Government, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Treasurer, at a time when we have inflation running at a much faster rate of growth increase than ever there was in those 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government. How well we remember Bob Hawke condemning the McMahon Government as an evil government because unemployment was running at the rate of 120,000. 
When we compare that figure with the present figures, which are running in the order of 180,000- these are not my figures but those of the  Deputy  Prime Minister- what would the honourable member for Casey say if we condemned the Whitlam Government as an evil government for promoting unemployment? We have only to look at the statements of the  Deputy  Prime Minister who acknowledges that in July the Government was advised that its policies and its actions would lead to an increase in unemployment. Both inflation and unemployment are evils. For the benefit of honourable members on the Government side, I draw upon the Labour Chancellor of the Exchequor of the United Kingdom, who recently referred to the twin evils of unemployment and inflation, for that is what they are; unemployment so degrading of human dignity, a waste of human resources and debilitating to the economy; inflation so destructive of the standard of living, rendering savings if not worthless then seriously depleted and setting despair amongst the community. 
We have only to look at the movement of inflation rates in Australia since December 1 972, from somewhere around  4Vi  per cent, to Budget time in 1973, somewhere around 12 per cent or 13 per cent. Now the rate is somewhere around 20 per cent. What all this indicates,  Mr Speaker,  is the dearth of both political and economic leadership in Australia at the present time. We have the Prime Minister away from the country, the  Deputy  Prime Minister about to go to China, and the Treasurer also out of the country. We have talk, which is not unreal, of, if not a run, at least a rapid withdrawal of funds from building societies, pressure on the banks, and the Reserve Bank being asked to stave off this run on the financial institutions of the country. If the  Deputy  Prime Minister leaves this country tomorrow for China, throughout next week, which will be a critical time in the affairs of this country, we will have as Acting Prime MinisterHeaven forbid- the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Anyone who has studied the affairs of that Minister's portfolio will know what a dire time we are in for under him. 
-The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has directed attention to an important aspect of the Bill as drawn. By virtue of sub-section (5) of proposed section 133a the Registrar is given power to exempt an organisation from providing for autonomy of funds to a branch of a Federal organisation. The point he makes is that although the sub-section provides that the rules of an association or organisation may 'make adequate and reasonable provision for its funds, including branch funds, having regard to its functioning under this Act and its participation in any State system of industrial conciliation and arbitration' there is no guidance given to the Registrar of the circumstances in which the requirement of autonomy of branch funds can really be exempted by the Registrar. So far as I can recall from the second reading speech of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  no examples were given of the need for that discretion to be given to the Registrar. 
Unless it is well circumscribed it could provide, along with other provisions of this Bill which will be referred to later in the Committee stages, the means by which Federal organisations could deny to groups of workers in particular States the opportunity to have autonomy of their branch within the total Federal organisation because the Federal organisation, through its officials, could put a proposition to the Registrar which is in its interests, as it were, but contrary to the interests of the particular branch. The branch members- that is the workers themselveswould not be given, as I read the Act as amended by this Bill, any opportunity to go to the Registrar and claim the right to autonomy when the Federal officials want to deny that autonomy to them. It is most important that there be either an amendment in the form proposed by the honourable member for Lilley or in a form which gives some right to the branch members to appear before the Registrar in order to enable them to have branch autonomy if they want it. I see it as most important that if this Bill becomes law some protection of the kind proposed should be granted to those workers who, in the end, will be the members of the branch which is to be given autonomy. 
-I think we ought immediately to expose one of the statements by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  which he made in discussing this clause, clause S. He repeatedly said that this clause will validate certain situations within organisations and unions in Australia. He particularly referred to the situation of the Australian Workers Union as a Federal organisation and the Australian Workers Union as a State union in New South Wales. As I understood what he was saying, he was proposing that by virtue of this legislation where there previously had been ownership of property by the State union which had been thought to be the property of the Federal union, this legislation would validate the situation. Of course it will do nothing of the sort. It cannot be done simply by a Bill providing that the rules of an organisation must provide for branch funds of a federal organisation. That does not mean to say, for example, that the Australian Workers Union as a Federal organisation can immediately claim the property of the State Australian Workers Union. Before the property of the State union could become the property of the Federal union, agreement would have to be reached on the part of the State union to transfer the funds to the Federal union. Having some knowledge- perhaps minute compared with that of the Minister for Labor and Immigration who is at the table- of the affairs of the Australian Workers Union and the battle that has gone on over the years between those 2 legal entities, I could not see the State union readily agreeing to transfer its funds to the Federal union; nor would the State union agree to allow itself to be absorbed into the Federal union. The reason for that statement is that regrettably there is some antipathy between the State and Federal bodies, the officials of the State union for some reason having a fight with the officials of the Federal union. 
That argument really points up the fallacy behind this whole legislation. It cannot rectify overnight the situation where a group of workers and a group of unions desire to form themselves into a State union and to maintain themselves as an autonomous body, not part of the Federal organisation. Even if this Bill is passed, the Federal organisation could not immediately take over the State union. So, how in that kind of situation is there to be an amelioration of the present position within the AWU in New South Wales? How will there be an amelioration of the situation between the State registered union of the Transport 
Workers Union and the Federal Transport Workers Union? That can occur only when both organisations agree that one should be absorbed in the other. Until that agreement is reached, whatever law is passed will mean nothing. It can bring about no result whatsoever. We can still have the 2 organisations fighting each other as much as they fought each other in the past. We can still have demarcation disputes or, as they ought to be referred to in more practical terms, inter-union rivalry between 2 groups of workers following the same calling but not wanting to be part of the same association. I use 'association' in the sense in the one term as a union or in the other term as an organisation. 
So, please do not try to justify your legislation,  Mr Minister,  by saying that this Bill will validate a situation which is presently legally uncertain. It will not. Whilst the Minister clouds the issue in that way, he adds nothing to the cause of solving the problem which has been thrown up by the case of Moore and Doyle. This brings me back to the point that I made earlier in my second reading speech: Nothing can be solved except by the workers themselves. Only when they all want to be part of the one organisation can we avoid the kind of situation which was brought to a head by Moore and Doyle. This legislation will not in itself solve that. It may provide a means or a mechanism if the groups of workers separately want to come together. But the point I make is that clause 5 will not by its own force validate an invalid situation as has existed in the past; nor will it cause property which is presently the property of a State union to be automatically the property of a Federal union. Something else must happen. 
As I have said, agreement will be required between what are presently 2 separate legal entities and which will continue to be 2 separate legal entities notwithstanding the legislation, to come together one to be absorbed in the other so as to form one organisation. Until that happens, although the registrar might require an organisation to provide for a branch fund or might exempt a Federal organisation from altering its rules so as to establish a branch fund, there will not be a solution to the practical situation which presently exists and will continue to exist notwithstanding the passage of this legislation. 
-In looking at clause  7,  which seeks to add a new section  136A  to the principal Act, I am extremely puzzled why the Bill will enable an organisation to exclude from a branch the opportunity to become registered within a State jurisdiction. That is what proposed section  136A  will do. It will do that because it says 'Where it is not contrary to the rules of an organisation to do so' it may participate in the systems of conciliation and arbitration of the States, whether it be by way of a wages board or a system of conciliation and arbitration through a registered union. So that means that a federal organisation may, by its rules, provide that a branch in a State may not participate in the industrial jurisdiction of that State, and therefore the State branch must participate in a federal award. That seems to me to be the very antithesis of what has been said before is the purpose of this Bill, that is, to allow an unincorporated branch of a federal organisation to obtain registration in a State jurisdiction and thereby a State award. The very purpose of the Bill may be subverted by a federal organisation which does not want a State branch to participate in a State industrial jurisdiction. 
Why should this provision be allowed to intrude into this legislation? It can be for one of two reasons, either that the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  does not know what the Bill provides for in its legal implications or it is being deliberately inserted to enable a federal organisation to exclude from its branches the opportunity to participate within a State industrial jurisdiction. If it is the latter, of course it is a very serious matter because the justification that has been given for the Bill is by its very terms denied. It is equally serious if the Minister has not understood the legal implications of the very Bill which he has introduced because the Minister would know very well from his ample knowledge of the legal operation of the rules of an organisation that the rules control everything. They are subject to the law certainly- the Conciliation and Arbitration Act- but the rules control all else because what the rules provide for also permits the organisation to do. It is only what the rules provide that an organisation may do. If the rules deny to a State branch, by thenvery terms, the opportunity to participate in a State system, of course a State branch cannot participate in a State system as the branch of a federal organisation. Therefore the only way in which - 
-Wait a minute,  Mr Minister.  Therefore the only way in which the workers who form the State branch of a federal organisation may participate in a State system is by registering themselves as a State union. If that is the consequence- I believe it is and I think the Minister, from the way in which he has acknowledged my point, agrees with what I am saying- then all that this Bill seeks to achieve can be overturned. It will not achieve the very thing that it sets out to achieve. 
-If, as the Minister says, I have made my point, and I see that he agrees with me, what he ought to do is accede to an amendment to exclude from the clause those words which say 'Where it is not contrary to the rules of an organisation to do so' and insert in their place the provision that by the rules of an organisation a branch may participate in the system, and so on. Is the Minister prepared to consider an amendment to that effect if he acknowledges the point that I have made that this provision can deny everything that the Bill sets out to achieve? 
-As we are now dealing collectively with a number of clauses I shall deal quickly with some of those that I think require an explanation by the Minister for Labor and Immigration because they refer not only to serious legal questions but also to serious practical consequences for the unions who must participate within this jurisdiction. I refer firstly to clause 9 which seeks to amend section 140 of the principal Act which has already been referred to by the Minister. In replying to my earlier comments on clause 7 the Minister referred to clause 9 which requires the rules of an organisation to provide for the autonomy of the branch. The point I make to the Minister is this: Either clause 9 is inconsistent with clause 7- because you cannot have the rules of an organisation requiring that a branch may not participate in a State jurisdiction and at the same time have the rules requiring that there be autonomy and providing for matters concerning such participation- or clause 7 overrides clause 9 in the sense that immediately the rules of an organisation do not permit a branch of the organisation to participate in State jurisdiction, the rules, of course, cannot provide for autonomy and participation. So there is either a direct inconsistency or clause 7 overrules clause 9. 1 ask the Minister which of those situations applies. If he does not know, would he please find out? 
I also would like to refer to clause 1 1 which proposes new section 142a. The effect of this clause is to enable the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to grant exclusive representation to one organisation over another. This has immediate practical consequences in a situation where 2 federal organisations have concurrent constitutional coverage over the same class of workers thereby enabling each organisation in its own right to apply for an award in respect of those workers. But by virtue of proposed new section 142  a  power is to be given to the Commission to say that only one of those 2 organisations may have the right to obtain an award. I ask the Minister Is this the practical consequence that is intended by this provision? I cannot think that that is what he intends. I would not think that any union would agree to such a contention because in a situation where 2 unions have concurrent constitutional coverage over the same calling of workers or within the same industry each is entitled to obtain an award in respect of its own members. But by virtue of this proposed amendment, one of those unions would deny the right to represent its own members. 
Thirdly, I would like also to refer to clause 14 of the Bill. The direct purpose of this amendment is to exclude State jurisdictions from exercising any power in the matters presently dealt with by sections 140, 141 and 144 of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Because of the limitation of time upon us in this Committee debate, I will deal very briefly with those sections. Firstly section 141 deals with directions that may be given by the Australian Industrial Court for the carrying out of rules by the organisation. Secondly, section 140 prescribes the' rules which must be inserted in the rules of an organisation. Thirdly, section 144 deals with certain entitlements to membership by workers who wish to be members of an organisation. 
So the intent of this amendment is to prevent the State jurisdiction, in a case where the branch of a Federal organisation wishes to be registered in the State jurisdiction, from passing judgment in those areas. For example, where a Federal organisation wishes to register the Western Australian branch of that organisation in the Industrial Commission of Western Australia, the Western Australian Commission is denied the opportunity of passing judgment on the rules of the branch within the State where the jurisdiction is to be exercised and where the workers within the State may join the union. This amendment also denies to the State Industrial Commission the opportunity of requiring, for example, democracy to apply to the rules of the branch in that State. It also denies to the State jurisdiction the opportunity of declaring that a particular worker is entitled within Western Australia to join the Western Australian branch of the Federal organisations. I really cannot understand why, if a branch of the Federal organisation is to be given the right to register in the State jurisdiction, a State jurisdiction should be denied the opportunity of acting in these areas. 
Neither in the second reading speech of the Minister for Labor and Immigration nor in anything we have heard in this Committee debate has the Minister justified the grant of exclusive jurisdiction to the Federal organisation in these fields. There being such silence from the Minister and having regard to the obvious intention of the legislation, I am rather fortified in the view that I expressed earlier in the second reading debate on this Bill that the intent is to concentrate power in Federal . organisations and in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to the exclusion of State jurisdictions, and to the prejudice of the opportunity for workers in a State to have that degree of democratic say in their affairs which they presently have under the State jurisdictions by which they now operate. So in the absence of any justification for that exclusive jurisdiction being given to the Commonwealth, I think either we need an answer from the Minister or the Bill needs amending in the way that has been proposed by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns). 
Clauses agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
I fear that this legislation is a classic case of something intended to solve a situation but which in fact will create more problems than it solves. The situation between Federal and State unions which the case of Moore v. Doyle highlighted has been with the Australian industrial system since before 1952, as the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  mentioned, and really since the time when the Federal industrial system and the early State industrial systems were established at the turn of the century. Both those systems relied for their organisation within Australia on the registration of voluntary groups of workers or employers into a legal entity described under federal legislation as an organisation and under the State legislation which provides for registration of unions. 
It is because under the federal system the Constitution recognises that there ought to be 2 systems of industrial law in Australia that we can have at the one time a Federal legal entity and a State legal entity. So this is something which has been inherent in the industrial system of Australia ever since the foundation of this nation. This is a weakness, some would say; a strength, others would say. It would be a weakness, no doubt, to those who are persuaded to the view that industrial regulation in Australia should be solely the province of the Commonwealth and without any restrictions of interstate disputes such as are inbuilt into the Constitution at present. Such people would have federal unions right across the board without any State legislation to complicate the issue and to permit the creation of separate and distinct legal entities. 
On the other hand, there are those who propound the view that because of the regional characteristics of Australia and the regional characteristics of industry and the work force it is proper that there be a system of State unions, that is, a regulation of industrial affairs within a region or State according to the laws of a particular State geared to the particular needs of that region or State. That, very broadly, was the attitude of the founding fathers under the Constitution. They saw a need for a means of settling industrial disputes which are national in character by a system of federally organised unions. So the authority for such a system was included in the Constitution. 
It was thought at that time that the most effective way of settling industrial disputes- but more than settling, of preventing them- was a method of conciliation and arbitration. It is often forgotten that the Constitution could have simply given to the Commonwealth the power to make laws to deal with industrial disputes when they were national in character, leaving it to the Parliament of the day, as time moved on, to decide whether a system of compulsory arbitration was the best method of settling industrial disputes, whether a system of collective bargaining was the best method, or whether some other system of industrial regulation would bring the required measure of industrial peace. But the writers of the Constitution thought that in a system of compulsory arbitration they had the answer. So we have this strange provision of the Constitutionthat is, strange by contrast with the other provisions of the Constitution which grant a general power to the Commonwealth- which actually limits the way in which the Parliament of the Commonwealth can legislate to make laws for a system of preventing and settling industrial disputes. 
The States, on the other hand, are unlimited in the legislative power that they have to provide a system to settle industrial disputes. Some States have chosen a system of registration of unions, compulsory arbitration to a more or less degree. Other States, Victoria amongst them, do not have a system of registration of unions or a system of arbitration as States like my own of Western Australia, Queensland and New South Wales have. That is because the State of Victoria having the ample legislative power that it has, has decided that some other system would be better for that part of the country. But in those States Uke mine, which have a system of conciliation and arbitration, this system has been provided for by the registration of voluntary groups of workers into legally recognised unions having a separate legal identity, once they become registered. 
Since the early days of the Commonwealth, there has been a growth of the Federal union or the Federal organisation. So, gradually, the Federal organisations have become stronger and stronger in the industrial power that they have. They have done this in two ways. The first is by the extent of what is called their constitutional coverage. By that is meant the callings of workers, the vocations of workers that their rules permit them to have as members, or the industry within which the organisation can itself operate. So, under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, if 100 workers get together and desire to form their own union, they may lodge with the Registrar a set of rules having a description of callings or vocations or a description of industry wide enough to comprehend all those workers that they seek to represent. They can throw their net really as wide as they wish, subject to whether or not there already exists a registered organisation to which those members who have sought to be covered can conveniently belong. So, a balance is struck between those organisations which are already registered and the new organisation which seeks to spread its wings and to extend its industrial power. 
The second way in which the Federal union can extend its industrial power is by the awards that it obtains from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. As time has gone on, from the days when an award might simply apply to 2 States in order to give it its interstate character, Federal unions have sought to extend their industrial power by extending the award coverage which they have beyond the original States. So, in Western Australia there is the example over many years of Federal unions seeking to intrude into the industrial system of that State either by applying for a completely new award which takes in Western Australia for the first time or by way of what is called a roping in award, extending an existing award to Western Australia. 
Generally speaking, what has happened in this kind of situation is that, when the Federal union seeks to extend its industrial power either by amending its rules and extending the class of worker that it can cover or by extending its award into Western Australia, it inevitably seeks to take away from a State registered union that area of coverage which the State union occupies. So, the situation arises that the umbrella might be thrown over a State union by a Federal organisation extending its membership coverage to workers who are already covered by a State union or by extending its award to workers who are already covered by an award of the State industrial commission. 
The Minister has mentioned section 41 (1) (d). It is a section with which I am most familiar because I fought many cases on behalf of State unions before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission seeking to prevent the takeover by a Federal organisation of a State area occupied by a State union. One of the strangest aspects which experience shows to one in this field is that one often finds a Federal organisation which has a State union counterpart in Western Australia fighting another Federal union which wants to take over that area of State industrial coverage. What the Federal organisation which is trying to withstand the takeover bid by another Federal organisation does is to use its State union as the vehicle for preventing a takeover, the reason being that the State union already has constitutional coverage through its membership rules or award coverage by an award issued out of the State jurisdiction. 
What my experience in this field has shown me is this: There are significant groups of workers who jealously guard the right to operate within their chosen industrial system. In this case, the chosen industrial system is the State industrial system, that is, the system which is regulated by the law of Western Australia. The same situation can be multiplied in other States which have similar legislation- Queensland, New South Wales and South Australia. To me, what this legislation, which has been brought down in an attempt or in a justification of the desire to overcome the difficulties presented by Moore and Doyle, can do is to concentrate power in Federal unions. I observe from reading the report of  Mr Justice  Sweeney, starting from page 28, under the chapter heading 'Solution Proposed to the Present Problems', that this is precisely the way in which he sees the solution to Moore and Doyle. In his opening paragraph, he says: 
What is sought is a solution to the problems which will enable federal organisations both to operate as they do at present under the Act - 
That is, the Commonwealth Act-  and which will also enable them to participate in State industrial arbitration systems. 
Later, in the same paragraph, he goes on to say: 
At the same time, the viability of the State systems of industrial arbitration must be preserved. 
Certainly, I agree with him wholeheartedly that the viability of the State systems of industrial regulation must be preserved, for the very practical reason that industrial experience in this country shows that significant groups of workers do desire to have their industrial conditions- that is, wages and other conditions of employmentregulated by the laws of their own State. But the underlying assumption in the Sweeney recommendation is that the best method of industrial regulation in Australia is by and through Federal organisations. It is that underlying assumption which I challenge and which I deny. 
I rely again on experience. The Minister for Labor and Immigration, who is at the table, is one who has had a great deal of experience in this industrial field. I am sure that he would agree with me when I say that there are these significant groups of workers who desire to have their conditions of employment regulated within the State where they live. So, it does not necessarily follow, as the Sweeney report assumes, that a system of Federal unions in Australia is the best way to bring about industrial peace. 
I turn to another aspect. When we look at the pattern of development in the industrial field in Australia particularly post war, we do see a rapidly accelerating concentration of industrial power in federal unions. I think that if anyone recognising that fact asks himself honestly the question whether there has been more or less industrial peace in Australia post war, under a system of that kind with a concentration of power in Federal unions, the answer is ready and at hand. We do not need to turn to a great deal of statistics, looking at it year by year. I think one merely needs to go into the streets and ask the people of Australia. I think they would say very quickly that Australia has not had a time of significant industrial peace. I believe that one of the great challenges for any Commonwealth Government is to see to the diversification of industrial power in Australia back to the workers themselves and not by way of a concentration of power into the hands of a small group of officials at the top of the pyramid which is the federal organisation. I firmly believe that if we allow this Bill to pass without effective checks and balances and controls through State legislation we will inevitably see that concentration of power in federal organisations and the very rapid withering away of State industrial jurisdiction. 
The whole of the experience in this field shows that once federal organisations can get control, particularly through the vehicle of an award, there is no need even to think about State jurisdictions; they have gone out the window. With a federal award you simply have the federal organisation to control all the industrial activities of its members, wherever they are in Australia. I cannot think of anything worse than a federal award applying in every instance throughout industry in Australia where, because of a dispute in Sydney, the workers of that union must be pulled out on strike in Perth. We have had many examples of that in recent times when there has been no industrial trouble at all in Western Australia but because of a decision made by a small group of federal officials at the head of a federal organisation to deal with a particular dispute in Sydney or Melbourne they have called a nationwide stoppage which brings the industry in Western Australia to a halt. For my part, I think that whether a person lives in Perth, Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide or Hobart. the guiding principle in the regulation of industrial conditions should be that the local workers should be the ones who can organise themselves into their own union if that is what they desire, under laws of the State within which they live, so that they can thereby be truly autonomous. They will not be autonomous under this legislation in any practical sense, although the legal terminology of the Bill says that they shall be autonomous. 
If there is one thing that experience in this field of industrial relations tells us it is that power does not necessarily come from the written word, from the law which is passed, but from control of the workers; and control of the workers is achieved through control of their organisation. That control lies essentially in the hands of the officials of the federal organisation. 
I know from inquiries I have made that the Western Australian Government is unhappy with this BUI. It sees dangers in it in the same way as I see dangers. It can see that inbuilt in it could be the annihilation of the State system. The Minister for Labour in Western Australia has made inquiries of unions in that State and I am informed that the overwhelming majority of unions registered with the State Industrial Commission do not want this BUI. Now, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  purports to represent unionism in Australia. I suggest that he take his inquiries much further and find out whether the union movement in all parts of Australia really does want this legislation. We aU want to solve Moore and Doyle but we do not want legislation of a kind which will see the annihilation of State jurisdiction. 
-The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  has touched upon a very important aspect of Parliament. He referred to the machinery by which members of the Parliament may participate in the activities of government so that members themselves may scrutinise, as he said, attack and oppose where necessary. What he has said might well be comprehended in the question of what happens when government continues to accelerate the growth of boards, authorities, commissions and so on, thereby expanding the Public Service and increasing the bureaucracy of the country. The question becomes: Who will control the controllers? That is what the members of these boards, commissions, authorities and so on are. They are the controllers of so many aspects of our daily life. Who then will control them? If at least in some sense Parliament cannot control them, what hope is there for the people themselves? So it is of the utmost importance that the Parliament of Australia has a close look at the machinery by which the Parliament itself operates. That is why the committee which has been established to look at a system of committees for the Parliament is so important. 
In the short time available to me in this debate I wish to speak on another aspect of the activities of members of Parliament. This is something that has been touched upon by other honourable members. It concerns the facilities for members themselves, both in Parliament and in their electorate. I was elected to the Parliament in December 1972 and, like other honourable members who also were elected at that time and those who have since been elected, it did not take very long to realise that the facilities for members were totally inadequate if they were to carry our their functions properly. Like other members, I praise the efforts of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is sitting at the table, for what he has done for members and in particular the dealings I have had with him because he has been courteous and prompt in attending to matters that I have raised with him. 
The accommodation for members in this building is appalling. It is appallingly inadequate, however one might look at it. Some members have a room to themselves; they are fortunate. In other cases 2 members occupy the one room. In my own case, 3 members occupy the one room. As a new chum to Parliament I am often told by older members: 'Well, you are lucky. You are well off. You should have been here 20 years ago.' I am fortunate that I am both younger and a more recent member of Parliament. 
I got a very good majority and I tell the Minister that I am going to double it the next time, have no fear about that. So when we get our new parliament house it is of the utmost importance that more rather than less accommodation be provided for members of Parliament. If there is to be any skimping of space or scraping to provide accommodation for others in the new building certainly it should not be in respect of accommodation for members, nor should accommodation for them be reduced in order to provide for someone else. It would be better to erect another building close to the chamber itself for use by members of Parliament or for the parliamentary staff and the people who provide the ancillary services for the operation of the Parliament. 
Not only is there a lack of accommodation here but also there are difficulties back in the electorate. I am fortunate in that I have a new office in the heart of my electorate. For that I am extremely thankful. But if a member is to do his job properly I firmly believe that he must have not only more staff in the Parliament but also more staff in his electorate, and that would necessarily require more accommodation. I have one secretary- a very good secretary- who handles the inquiries of constituents who approach my office while I am in Parliament, and for that I am exceedingly thankful because without an efficient and capable secretary at home in my electorate all hell might break loose upon my politician's head. 
In respect of secretarial staff in this Parliament, I have access to 3 typists who are available to all the back bench Opposition members. That is totally inadequate. Some members have a lot more daily correspondence than others which they must attend to continuously in the Parliament. But there are simply not enough secretarial services available to the ordinary member to fulfil all the work that he requires to be done. It has been suggested that there should be a pool system of secretarial staff which would mean an expanded pool system compared with what we now have. I do not think we ought to accept that proposition for one minute. I think the proper thing is for each member of Parliament to have his own secretarial assistance that he can call upon at any time. He should not be put in the invidious position of lining himself up in a queue. The same idea applies in respect of a proposal for research assistance. I think it was the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  who briefly touched on this and suggested the same kind of thing. Again I believe it is totally inadequate for a member of Parliament to have to line up in a queue to get some research assistance. As the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has said, the Parliamentary Library staff do a wonderful job but how can they satisfy all the demands of members of Parliament? They cannot. 
When one looks at the range of very significant legislation that is brought before this Parliament one sees Bills which are currently before it, such as the National Compensation Bill, the Family Law Bill and the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill. Just think of legislation such as the Trade Practices Bill, with its wide ranging consequences on the community in respect of commerce, business and consumers themselves, the Australian Industry Development Corporation legislation, its associated Bill the National Investment Fund Bill and the number of Conciliation and Arbitration Bills that have been brought into this House. I mention them as some that immediately come to mind because of my interest in them. But I cannot possibly cope with the work that I would like to do upon the various Bills hat I have mentioned. The National Compensation Bill is a massive piece of legislation which has far reaching consequences within the community. It is designed to change a system of compensating people for injury which has been long established within the common law jurisdictions of British speaking nations. 
Members have their own areas of special interest, but they like to spread their wings for a very good reason and diversify their interests to extend their knowledge and their experience, but they simply cannot do this unless they have staff who have direct access to them and who are responsible to the individual members. I could engage two or three qualified people to look at the Bills I have mentioned and come up with suggestions for me. I would expect them to be able to make a much more effective contribution to the operation of this Parliament. But apart from that, back in one's electorate, where I believe that a member of Parliament must be a representative of the people within his electorate, how can he represent them when he has only one person to do the typing for him, to answer the telephone and take account of the daily correspondence that comes in? Every member needs more people to back him up at home so that those people can go out into the electorate and find out what the thinking is within the electorate on specific issues as well as the attitudes and the opinion of his people, because they are his people whilst he remains their member of the House. Unless he knows fully what those attitudes, views and opinions are, then he cannot represent them effectively in Parliament. If we had that kind of representation then I believe that some of the trenchant criticisms that are heaped upon the party system of government would be overturned because the member would be more truly a representative of the people and could more effectively operate within the party system. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to return tonight to the debate on uranium policy. The debate on that policy will not end with the 
Renouf affair, even though the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  may desire that that be a forgotten affair. Nor will the debate end with the 22nd annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission which has just been released. Nor will it end with the supposed answer by the Minister to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development examiners report on science and technology in Australia The reason why it will not so end is that the Minister still has not produced a policy which deliberately and coherently establishes a basis for national decisions on the use of and trade in this premium energy source. 
I do not intend to debate the details of uranium policy in this adjournment debate because it is not the occasion to do so. However I wish to refer to the Renouf affair because it illuminates the narrowness of the Minister's approach to his portfolio. Also a proper and responsible approach to Australia's role as a supplier of this premium energy resource to the western world is sadly needed from the Australian Government. I raise the matter now because I was fortunate enough to be in Washington, New York and Ottawa three to four weeks before the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was in the same places. I do not claim to have spoken to the same people in high places as the Prime Minister, but I spoke to a good cross-section of officers of the United States and Canadian Governments and to leading men in the nuclear and uranium industry in the United States in particular. The clear, unmistakable message which I received from within both government and industry was, firstly, that Australia was missing the boat in the world uranium trade and, secondly, that the economic nationalism of the Minister for Minerals and Energy was against the foreign policy interests of Australia. These two things were clear and unmistakable. Nothing that has come out of the Renouf affair so far has done anything to remove the views that I found prevalent in those 2 countries. 
It was obvious from the earliest Press reports of the Prime Minister's visit overseas that something was on. I refer, firstly, to the report in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 1 October by Robert Haupt in New York under the heading ' Whitlam 's burden- Connor'. Observations were made that the Prime Minister would state, in his address to the United Nations General Assembly, that Australia believed above all in the inter-dependence between supplier and consumer nations in the fields of resources, and that  Mr Whitlam  would be replying to  President  Ford.  Mr Haupt  went on to observe how  Mr 
Whitlam 's position would be immediately undermined at home and abroad. He observed that it would be undermined at home by the lack of policy on energy resources.  Mr Haupt  referred also to a senior Department of Foreign Affairs official at a briefing in New York. When questioned about the resources issue, the official said: 'You know we have to be very careful if we go into  Mr Connor's  province'. That was on 1 October. Clearly something was brewing. We knew that something had brewed and something very strong had been brewed when the reports came out of the briefing by  Mr Renouf  of journalists in Suva on 9 October. 

 Mr Haupt reported from Fiji that it was now clear that  Mr Whitlam  had finally been convinced of the need to end the hegemony of  Mr Connor  and  Sir Lenox  Hewitt over resource policy;  Mr Whitlam  had been receiving advice, which was gaining in strength in recent months, that Australia needed both to clarify its attitudeboth domestically and internationally- to resource questions and to open up the decision making structure on resource policy. In the 'West Australian' of 10 October, datelined Suva, it was observed that informants said that  Mr Whitlam  had accepted advice that the present boom prices for minerals might not last for ever and that Australia should go ahead and exploit its resources. 
What was being advised to  Mr Whitlam  was, firstly, that world market trends made it imperative that if Australia was to take advantage of a unique sellers' market developing in uranium it should act immediately to enter that market and should not delay the entry and, secondly, that if Australian foreign policy was to fit into the desired foreign policy of the Western world for a sharing of the uranium resource Australia had to play its part as a supplier of that resource to the developed countries of the Western world, more particularly when Australia had, by any standards, at least 25 per cent of the known world reserves of uranium. In the face of all that, it is quite clear that the Prime Minister was prepared to sacrifice not only a senior public servant but also a man who had been his friend over many years. The Prime Minister was prepared to sacrifice that officer on the altar of the minerals policy of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. It made it abundantly clear that the Minister dominates the Government in this area of policy. He dominates the Government at a time when it is urgent for the Government itself, and not the Minister, to take an overall and close look at Australia's policy in this vital field. In order to establish that the Prime Minister's advice, which he received in both the United States of America and Canada, was accurate one has only to have recourse to any reputable assessment of the supply and demand pattern in uranium use in the decade of the 1980s and beyond. Every reputable assessment of that pattern shows that the combination of the nuclear reactors to be commenced in the decade of the 1980s and in particular the number of uranium enrichment plants required in the Western world to satisfy enriched uranium demand has compelled the international uranium industry to reassess that demand in the 1980s. Quite clearly now the crossover point between supply and demand is roughly in the period of 1982 to 1984. One cannot be precise about this, of course, but clearly in the mid-1980s supply will have overcome demand. 
Therefore, once the projected demand for enriched uranium is appreciated, looking at it from a conservative view and looking at the more accelerated nuclear growth patterns for that decade, it is quite clear that by 1990 the Western world will require between six and nine new enrichment plants. That means that the Western world will need one such plant every year or every year and a half, depending upon the degree of optimism one has. The important point is that we are talking about not one new plant or 2 new plants, but six to nine such new plants to go into operation in the decade of the 1980s. That means an investment of something between $9 billion and $20 billion at current values. An immense amount of money is required; an immense amount of investment will need to be marshalled in order to supply the free world with its enriched uranium needs. That means that now is the time for Australia to make its firm policy decision on how it is to enter the international market for uranium either in yellowcake form or enriched form. It means that Australia now must make its decision to allow the producers direct access to those world markets. 
I want to join with my colleagues who have been fortunate to speak in this debate in expressing the concern of the Opposition at the extremely limited time that has been given to members of this House to debate a measure of such social magnitude. The second reading debate on this Bill was commenced at 2. IS p.m. today and I understand that it is the desire of the Government to complete the Committee stage of the Bill this evening. That does not allow very many hours of consideration by this House of a measure aimed at removing completely the common law system of providing damages for persons injured by industrial accident, road accidents or by accidents resulting from the negligence of others, for example medical negligence within a hospital or in a doctor's practice or other activities whereby personal injury can be caused by the actions of other people. It is intended to remove completely the workers compensation systems that operate in all States of Australia and, as I have said, the common law system that operates in all parts of Australia. Yet we have been given a limited amount of time in which to consider a matter of this magnitude. 
The legislation before us not only seeks to remove the means by which people are compensated for injury but it will inevitably lead to a major change in the social fabric of the nation. It is intended to alter the system whereby persons who are hurt in the ways that I have mentioned can take their individual cases before the law, pressing their case before the courts to the full extent of the remedy which the law presently gives to them. The Government seeks to replace the present system with a system which will be managed, administered and funded by the Commonwealth of Australia through what must and can only be described as a bureaucratic system, a system administered by public servants clothed with the widest discretionary powers, which have already been referred to by my colleagues. I emphasise again that this is not a system whereby the individual can go before the law and pursue his own case for his own individual remedy and to seek the full extent of the remedy that the law provides for him. I do not think it is any exaggeration to say that he will be at the mercy of the administrators of the proposed scheme. He will be classified and placed in his pigeon hole. He will have to front up to the counter- not to a judge- of the authority which is to administer this scheme. The great problem he will have will be to jump over the counter and obtain the true measure of compensation to which he is entitled. 
We ought not delude ourselves, and in particular the Government ought not to delude itself, by believing that this scheme will really be any more efficient, cheap or just than the system that presently operates in Australia except in regard to those persons who are hurt but presently do not have a remedy at law because of the necessity to establish negligence and who under this scheme will be given a measure of compensation. The proposed scheme will not necessarily be more efficient because of the very bureaucratic machine that must operate to administer it. It will not be cheaper because the individual will still have to employ lawyers, for example, to establish his or her case where they wish to challenge the very basis upon which the administrators have given compensation. 
I will mention some of the aspects where there are serious and grave legal questions which must inevitably bring their own litigation and their own cost. It is said that the proposed scheme will more justly provide compensation for the injured, sick and disabled. What is meant by 'justice' in this context. How is justice measured in a case like this? Do we measure it by the amount of compensation that is given? I think we must. That is a fundamental measure of justice in this scheme as compared with what people may already receive at common law or by way of workers compensation. It is again true that the Government can rightly point out that its scheme is more just because it will include people who presently are excluded. I refer again to those people who do not have recourse to compensation because they cannot prove negligence as the cause of their injury. But justice surely in large measure is what the injured or sick person will receive at the hands of the community. There is in very significant areas an absence of justice in the sense that what people will receive under this scheme will be less than they can receive at law at present. 
I know that the Government- and Government supporters have used this type of argument in debate this afternoon- accuses the Opposition of pursuing only the interests of certain selfinterested groups. Examples are the legal profession, which is the profession to which I belong and the insurance industry because undoubtedly that industry will suffer greatly by the shifting of compensation from there to within this state sponsored scheme. But when the very carefully prepared document of the Law Council of Australia is looked at one can immediately see that this body is not concerned to promote the self-interest of the profession but is really concerned with the rights of an individual under this scheme. The Council makes a most pertinent observation in the summary which accompanied its review. It said: 
While fault has been removed as a prerequisite to entitlements, the Bill introduces new moral and value concepts which seem to be unfair. These new concepts have these effects: 
The people of Australia would do well to mark this- 
People under eighteen are not entitled to compensation unless they are earning. 
People over 26 get no compensation for loss of potential increased earning capacity in the future. 
This provision is modified somewhat by the amendments which have been foreshadowed this afternoon on behalf of the Government but substantially that observation is correct. The common law system at the present time embodies the fundamental principle of compensation that we must compensate the individual for loss of potential earning capacity. Yet this scheme would deny it. If a man or a woman of 25 years of age is injured in a way which directly affects his or her earning capacity in the future, why should not the community compensate them for that loss? Why is it that the Government denies to all people in Australia over 26 years of age the right to be compensated for loss of future earning capacity? The Law Council goes on to state: 
Self-employed people get no compensation for temporary partial incapacity. 
As a self-employed person, as a barrister, I knew that whilst I was not working I was not earning. Why should I or anybody in a position similar to mine be ineligible to receive compensation simply because I am self-employed and I suffer only temporary partial incapacity? As the Law Council further points out: 
Shop-keepers, farmers, plumbers, music teachers and others get no compensation when they are recovering from broken limbs or car smash injuries. 
Widows under 36 lose benefits after 12 months unless they have to support children or aged relatives. 
Lump sum compensation is payable (with minor exceptions) only for severe disfigurement. Lump sum payments are treated by the Report generally to be bad for accident victims. 
The administrator of the scheme has a discretion as to what is or what is not to be treated as a severe disfigurement. The Law Council states: 
Accident victims lose existing rights to challenge unfavourable evidence on the basis set out in the Report that any ' contest ' is bad for their rehabilitation. 
Anybody who has practised in the jurisdictions of industrial accident or motor vehicle accident law knows that it works both ways. Certainly, the idea of having a contest puts back the opportunity to rehabilitate the injured person. But we also know how much those injured persons demand the right to be compensated to the full under the law. The Law Council goes on: 
A person is not compensated for loss of his livelihood, but only for loss of capacity to work. A small permanent injury, such as the loss of a big toe, is not compensated, even though in the case of a footballer or a ballet dancer, it could represent a loss of thousands a year. 
But let us not look exclusively at the footballer or the ballet dancer; let us take the tradesman. What concerns me as much as anything in the scheme as proposed is the notion of incapacity, because by virtue of the operation of clause 35 of the Bill, the Bill equates impairment with incapacity. Again I draw on experience. Anybody who has practised in this field of motor car injury or industrial accident will know that you cannot and you ought not to rely upon the assessment of impairment by a doctor. I say that quite deliberately because I know from experience that a doctor may say: 'Well, because this man has hurt his elbow, he has lost 30 per cent of the efficient use of his arm'. But the actual impact of that injury and resultant incapacity upon the individual's ability to work is such that his loss of efficient use is not 30 per cent but 75 per cent. 
Let us take another case of a tradesman. My learned colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  referred to the case of a rigger. I think, for example, of the plaintiff for whom I acted who was a rigger working on high towers. He had to be lowered down one of the cable which supported the tower. Unfortunately, when his fellow workers pulled him up, they pulled his back apart. The guide to the evaluation of permanent impairment issued by the American Medical Association, which is the basis upon which a doctor makes his assessment of impairment shows that either for restricted motion for injury or impairment of flexion or extension of the lumbar region, the loss of impairment may be from one per cent to 9 per cent according to the degree from which flexion moves from the neutral position. So the poor man who has had his back stretched and who might be able to get 45 degrees of flexion simply cannot go back to bis job as a high tower rigger earning big money. Under this scheme that man is limited in what he can recover. He is limited to 85 per cent of the average earnings that he received during the preceding 12 months. 
One can go on and on citing examples of incapacitated tradesmen. I think of the carpenter who has injured his thumb, who cannot hold the hammer or who cannot work the plane or the fitter and turner who has injured his hands. The percentage loss under this impairment classification in no way compensates them for the actual loss of capacity to work. There is also limitation of compensation to the person over the age of 65 years. Those lawyers who are so glibly condemned by Government supporters have handled hundreds and thousands of cases of people over 65 years of age who have suffered serious back injuries, injuries to limbs and other parts of their bodies. They are compensated by the law at the present time for pain and suffering and what we call loss of amenities, loss of enjoyment of life and the inability to pursue their lives to the full as they could have done before. Those people- men, women and elderly people- in the community who are injured on the roads or at work are denied by this scheme compensation to which they are presently entitled. 
I know that Government supporters will say: 'Oh, but those persons have to establish fault. They have to establish negligence in some person before they can recover'. I think any fair examination of the operation of the system at the present time will show that the proportion of people who are compensated without having to establish fault is very high indeed. It is impossible to give the exact figure in this area, but it may be as high as 90 per cent. I know that in my own State it is a rarity for a case to go to court on the issue of negligence at the present time because there are settlements of claims which give to the people I have mentioned compensation which they would be denied under the present scheme. 
I am one of those who, from long experience, have seen the weaknesses of the system of fault liability. I support wholeheartedly a genuine effort to remove from the system of compensation the necessity to establish fault. I think I would be at one with every one of my colleagues on the Opposition benches in desiring a system of that kind. What we say is that the system proposed in the Bill, which denies to people who are presently entitled to receive what I might call full compensation for the total effects of injury, is a completely inadequate system. 
Previous speakers have referred to various aspects of the Bill and have pointed out the inadequacies and inequities of the system which the Government is introducing. Yet the Government is patting itself on the back for having had the fortitude to introduce this new scheme. The Opposition genuinely desires to co-operate with the Government in finding a more efficient, cheaper and more just scheme for compensating those who are injured or who are sick. Yet because of the way in which this House is managed and because of the limited time which is available to the Opposition to debate this Bill, the Opposition will not be able to co-operate with the Government to produce a good Bill and to produce a good scheme. It is not enough to leave it to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to look into the Bill, as the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  suggested. I think it is a shame that the honourable member should denigrate this House, the House of Representatives, the House which is supposed to represent the people of Australia, and that we in this House should be denied a full and ample opportunity to debate and consider this Bill. If there is to be a committee of Parliament to consider this scheme, I consider that it must be a joint committee having members from both the House of Representatives and the Senate and from both the Government and the Opposition. Only when we have a consideration of the Bill in full measure in that way can we come up with a scheme for the people of Australia which will be more efficient, cheaper and more just than the present system of law which operates in Australia. 
Does the Minister for Housing and Construction recall his meeting in Perth on 8 October with members of the Independent Home Buyers Action Group, including the honourable member for Swan and myself, at which there was submitted to him a scheme for relief for home buyers from high interest rates based on a rebate on tax payable related to increased payments due to the higher interest rates of recent times? Has the Minister seen Press reports of late last week reporting that the Government is considering a scheme of direct subsidy said to cover up to 5 per cent of interest on a home loan? Is this the scheme proposed by the Independent Home Buyers Action Group or a similar scheme? How far has the Government considered such a proposal? How serious is the Government in its consideration of a rebate or subsidy scheme of that kind, either as an alternative or as a supplement to the tax deductibility scheme which has yet to see the light of day? 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-I do. The Minister said that no member of the Opposition was prepared to challenge the Minister on the Fitzgerald report. During the campaign preceding the 18 May election I sent a telegram to the Minister challenging him to debate the Fitzgerald report in Perth because of the importance of it to the mining industries in Western Australia. The Minister declined to meet the challenge. Now he has repeated the statement twice in this House and I am glad of the opportunity now to refute it 

 Mr KATTER (Kennedy)-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Chairman. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I rise to speak in the Committee debate- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Overseas Trade 
Proposed expenditure, $27,205,000. 
Department of Manufacturing Industry 
Proposed expenditure, $ 162,293,000. 
I see that in this Grievance Day debate I have only 5 minutes in which to say what I would normally have 10 minutes to say; so I must of necessity cover only a very narrow part of the subject that I wish to raise. I want to speak about development in Western Australia. I do grieve for my State, the people of Perth, and my people of Stirling about what this Government is doing to development of the great national resources of Western Australia. I want today to raise particularly what is happening with regard to ou and gas exploration in Western Australia, particularly offshore and in the North- West Shelf area. I noticed in the 'West Australian' of Wednesday, 3 November, a report of a data firm quitting Western Australia. Western Geophysical Co. of America, seismic data processors, will close down its Western Australian office on Friday. 
To some people that may not be significant They may not know what a seismic data processor is or in what field of activity its services are used. Such a firm is directly involved in oil exploration. This firm was engaged by oil companies. It engaged a marine crew involved in seismic work off-shore. The manager of the company is reported as saying that it was closing down its Perth operations because oil companies were not undertaking any new exploration at present. The closure will mean that from a peak of employing 55 people on its seismic data processing operation and about thirty in its marine crew; all of those experts in this vital field of oil exploration will be lost to Western Australia and to Australia. The computer staff, 12 key personnel, are going to Singapore. What a tragedy it is for Australia that at a time when this country is starved technologically in fields like this we are losing this kind of key people to other countries. 
The manager of the company said: 'We will come back.' I would add that he will certainly come back with these key personnel when we have a return to sensible Liberal-Country Party government. We on this side appreciate the importance of development of our natural resources. Tragically we have had a 2-year hiatus in development of these resources since the Labor Government came to power in 1972 and we have had the administration of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  What needs to be recognised by the people of Western Australia is that the future dependence, if not the destiny, of Australia is locked up in the remote farms, mines and processing plants of places like the Pilbara. The eastern seaboard of Australia is heavily dependent upon its manufacturing industry. States like mine are heavily dependent upon the development of natural resources in remote areas like the Pilbara. Therefore, it is of imperative importance that decisions be made now to unlock those resources for the future benefit of Australia. 
In the mini-Budget of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on Tuesday night there were cuts in income and company tax and a new direction was given to the Prices Justification Tribunal to allow companies to receive that degree of profit which is necessary for sound investment and future expansion. We have seen at last a recognition that the credit squeeze must be taken off to relieve the liquidity crisis that was facing banks and industry. But to me, that is only half the ledger. The Government is looking at only half of the problem affecting inflation in Australia. The real answer to inflation in this country will in the end come from a return to a policy of economic growth. When the Government is prepared to acknowledge that it will see that the greatest economic growth in the shortest time will come from the rapid development of the natural resources with which Western Australia is so well endowed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! It is now 15 minutes to 1 o'clock. In accordance with standing order 106 the debate is interrupted and I put the question: That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I enter this debate because of the position in which the City of Stirling now finds itself with regard to its finances. The City of Stirling is shared in area by my electorate of Stirling and the electorate of the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  Outside the City of Perth it is the largest local authority in the metropolitan area. It is significantly larger than the City of Perth in area. It has some 160,000 people to cater for and it might properly be regarded as big business in its own right. It has a budget of $15,708,834 for the 1974-75 financial year. It is to receive a grant of $490,000 from the Grants Commission by virtue of this legislation. I think that it is about the eighth largest grant that is to be allocated. The City of Stirling obviously is to receive that grant because of the wide range of social commitments it has within its local authority area. 
The City of Stirling is concerned about 2 things, firstly its immediate financial plight and secondly, when it will get the money from the Government. I notice in that regard that clause 4 of the Bill provides that grants are payable in the financial year that commenced on 1 July 1974 and that the payments to the State, being the channel through which these grants will be received by local authorities, shall be made at such times and in such amounts as the Treasurer approves. Implicit in that, as I read it, is that the Treasurer can put out this money in dribs and drabs as he chooses to do so rather than in a single lump sum. Clause 4 goes on to provide that the payments to the States are made on the condition that the State concerned will without undue delay and before I July 1975 make unconditional payments of these grants to the local authorities. Therefore there is a double-edged sword in the provision of this Bill. Firstly, the Treasurer of the Commonwealth has at his discretion the right to pay this money out in bits and pieces, and secondly the State has until 1 July 1975 to make payments to the local authorities. Conceivably, therefore, the Treasurer could wait until 29 June 1975 to make the money available to the State of Western Australia and so the State of Western Australia would have one day in which to make that money available to the local authority. 
I do not believe for one moment that that sort of situation would occur. But in pointing out what is permissible under the terms of the Bill, I seek to highlight the urgency with which local authorities within Australia, and in particular my own, the City of Stirling, require this money because of the immediate financial plight with which they are confronted. Let me demonstrate this plight by looking at the budget of the City of Stirling. This large budget of $ 15.5m is to be balanced by rate income which accounts for $5.5m, loan requirements which are $1,700,000, government grants for buildings and reserves which will bring in $250,000, road grants of $1.5m and town planning scheme grants of $1,824,000. The rating income represents 33.3 per cent of the City of Stirling's budget. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was speaking about the financial situation in which the city of Stirling finds itself in view of the current economic situation in Australia and making the point, which I will develop in the course of the time still available to me, that the $490,000 which the city of Stirling will obtain through the Grants Commission will not serve the purposes intended for it because of the financial plight in which the city finds itself. I pointed out that the city has a budget of $15,500,000. 1 was giving a break up of that amount between rate income, loan requirements, Government grants, road grants and town planning schemes. In order to obtain the rate income of $5,500,000 the city was obliged in this financial year to increase its rates by 34.5 per cent. That is a significant increase by any standard and will be an impost that not very many, if any, of the ratepayers of the city of Stirling would like to bear. But I hope that they appreciate that the city is bound to make that increase in rates in the face of the inflationary situation in Australia today if it is to provide those municipal services that ratepayers depend upon. 
As I pointed out, of a total loan program of $1,700,000 since March of this year the city has been able to raise only $500,000. This amount &gt; represents less than one-third of what it will  require before July 1975. The significance of this is that the loan program supports the engineering work carried out by the city. The engineering section employs 150 men. I have been informed by the city that 96 of those 150 men are directly employed by the use of loan funds. The inevitable is obvious: If the balance, the amount of $ 1.2m, is not raised by way of loans the employment of those 96 men is in jeopardy. I have been further informed by the city that the situation is so acute that unless a substantial amount of loan money is found within 9 weeks, those 96 men may well face redundancy. 
It is also important to realise that the loan program must support grants made by the States. For example, the States provide grants for urban local roads. The city is required to match what the Government provides on the basis of $2 for each $1 allocated by the State. An amount of $41 1,080 has been allocated by the State. But the city depends on its loan funding to provide this matching money. Therefore, again, if its loan program fails the city cannot provide the money which entitles it to obtain a grant from the State Government. Therefore it is squeezed in 2 directions. It is unable to raise loan funds itself and therefore it is ineligible to obtain grants from the State Government. I know from inquiries that I have made- we have heard this from other speakers in the debate tonight- that this is not an unusual situation in Australia today. It is a situation which arises directly from the economic measures of this Government and principally from the credit squeeze that the Government implemented from September 1973. 
The credit squeeze has put a squeeze on the availability of loan funds from the traditional financial institutions that local government depends upon- the savings banks, trading banks, State banks and other financial institutions where the money can be borrowed. As is well known throughout the financial institutions of Australia. the dire credit squeeze which was imposed upon them by this Government over the last 12 months has meant that local authorities, as well as private business, cannot borrow. To the extent that their spending programs and thenworks programs are so heavily dependent upon loan funds, they are denied the ability to carry out those works that the ratepayers are dependent upon. 
In the current situation of rapidly rising unemployment, it is not only private industry which will add to the numbers of unemployed by not being able to afford to continue to employ people; also, great employers such as local authorities will be hit equally as severely and their former employees will add to the growing number of unemployed. This is precisely the situation with which local authorities such as the city of Stirling are faced. The city officers have not lain down quietly and let this situation occur without trying to avoid it. They have explored every possible avenue of raising this money. Indeed, they have sought the assistance of the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  whose electorate, as I have said before, crosses into the city of Stirling, as does my electorate. I know that the honourable member for Perth, who I am glad to see is in the House tonight, has made approaches to the Government on behalf of the city of Stirling to see whether there is any avenue from within the Commonwealth itself or any of its institutions like the Reserve Bank of Australia to provide loan funds to a local authority which is in the kind of economic situation that the city of Stirling is in. Regrettably, the honourable member for Perth was given a definite negative answer. The Government could not help. I would not say that it would not help; it simply said that there was no way in which it could help to support the loan program of the city. 
The city has sought funds in every area that the Commonwealth Government has opened up to local authorities. These areas include grants for community and recreation programs through the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  and cultural grants for a cultural centre. The city has gone to the extent of seeking an amount of $247,840 for buildings and reserves. Of a whole range of projects which have been put before the appropriate Ministers since about April or May of this year, there is still no answer on any of those projects. There has been neither a yea nor a nay. For all this time the city has waited for an answer because it is in dire need of the funds so that it can maintain its program and continue its employment of its employees, let alone provide all those welfare services for which the people of Stirling are clamouring. 
It has sought access to funds through the Regional Employment Development scheme operated by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The city has sought some $300,000 for unemployment relief under that scheme. Rather significantly, it has sought the bulk of that money- some $209,000- for the most labour intensive area, that is, within the engineering department that deals with the construction and reconstruction of footpaths. Yet I was informed yesterday by the Department of Labor in Perth which is handling the applications made by local authorities in Western Australia that that $209,000 for the specific works of construction and reconstruction of footpaths has been refused because the Department considers that it does not come within paramaters of the RED unemployment relief scheme. Yet if funds were provided, it is this very area which would maintain employment for some 100 people. It will go into the engineering department. So we have the absurd situation that before the City of Stirling can get unemployment relief grants it must see these 100 people discharged from employment so that they can then register for unemployment benefits at the local office within the region and, having shown in such a dramatic fashion that there are so many people unemployed, may be the City of Stirling will be able to obtain the funds in the very area which would have prevented the unemployment in the first place. 
It is an absurd situation where the RED scheme must operate to create unemployment before a local authority will be given money to alleviate it. It cannot be said that a local authority such as the City of Stirling Council, as I said, lies down idly and lets these events take their course. The City has explored every avenue for obtaining funds which would replace those loan funds which it presently cannot obtain. As I have said before, the reason why these loan funds cannot be obtained in the ordinary finance market where the City has obtained them before is the credit squeeze which has been brought on by this Government over the last 12 months or so. It is a credit squeeze which has affected not only private industry but also the great employers within the community like the local authorities. 
If the Prime Minister were true to all that he has said about local government- making it an equal third arm of government and providing it with the resources that it requires- in the miniBudget that he announced last Tuesday he would have made special provision for local authorities. One would expect that from the great interest that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has shown in this area he would at least be aware of what the policies of his own Government have done. 
I come back to the point that I made early in this debate about the provisions of the Bill and the discretion that is given to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to make payments at times and in such amounts as he approves. By the very course of things, in the way in which administration operates, the funds that will be available when this legislation is passed will not go through the pipeline, or even start in the opening to the channel, until about January. But January will be too late for a local authority like the City of Stirling to keep in employment those 100 men that I have spoken about. So I ask the Minister to give an assurance to the House that there will not be any delay in providing these funds to the State Government. I will certainly be approaching the State Government to see that it does not delay in making these moneys available to local authorities in Western Australia. 
If local authorities throughout Australia could be given some kind of indication that the 
Government is aware of the situation with which local authorities are confronted and that it will not delay the provision of this money, will not leak it out in dribs and drabs, there is some measure of hope for local authorities. Many of them, like the City of Stirling, are faced with the credit squeeze. Money is the thing they require urgently. It simply cannot be obtained quickly by grants from the Department of Tourism and Recreation or the appropriate Minister who handles cultural grants. It cannot be obtained quickly from the Minister in charge of the RED scheme. So where is a local authority to get its money? I ask the Special Minister of State to ensure that the Treasurer makes at least this grant money available quickly to local authorities throughout Australia. 
-I remind the Minister for Housing and Construction that ever since the December 1 972 elections the people of Australia have been promised a tax deductibility scheme in relation to home mortgage interest payments. They have not yet seen the scheme despite all the promises. I have been watching the daily program anxiously to see whether such a Bill is to be introduced. We still have not seen it. This sessional period is to conclude in a little over 2 weeks. Will the Minister advise the House whether enabling legislation will be introduced during these last 3 weeks of this sitting? 
I support the amendment proposed by the Opposition on the very simple ground that by the amendment the Stevedoring Industry Act will be brought back to the true intention of the exemption provided in the provisions of the Act as introduced by the late Harold Holt as far back as 1956. It is rather significant that the exemption stood the test of time for some 1 7 years before the situation which has prompted our amendment arose at Darwin. In the light of that situation the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has taken the opportunity to try to extend the language of the exemption, but in a way which will limit the area of the exemption. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has explained the ramifications of the amendment as introduced by the Government and how it would fundamentally alter the basis of the exemption which has hitherto existed. It may be put in very simple terms that the exemption was intended to permit employees whose duties were not limited to stevedoring operations to conduct the loading and unloading of ships carrying goods for use in connection with the industrial undertaking of their employer. This applied in areas such as those which have been mentioned but which generally fall into the area of mining operations which have grown along the coastline of Australian in recent times. This situation arises not only in operations such as Groote Eylandt. In the north-west of Western Australia where mining undertakings and towns to house employees of the undertakings, have been established, naturally enough the companies' wharves which are used for loading and unloading the products produced by the operations are used also for the handling of general cargo for the domestic services of the people who are employed in the undertakings. So what more sensible and practical consideration could apply than that those employees should be allowed not only to do the ordinary work that they do for their employer but also to handle these domestic commodities that are introduced across the employer's wharf. 
The honourable member for Wentworth has given the example of goods which are brought in for the local stores and which might be only a small part of the total cargo, the other part being cargo for direct use in the undertaking of the employer. The late Harold Holt said that as a matter of working practicality it is to be preferred that persons regularly employed by an industrial concern should load or unload on a wharf that is pan of that concern. That gets away from the weakness of the casual arrangement which is so generally a feature of waterfront employment. It gives the employer much more effective supervision and control of the operation of his own plant. 
If the amendment proposed by the Government were allowed to stand in the terms in which it was introduced it would severely limit the flexibility of employment which these operations presently enjoy. The exemption would apply only in respect of persons whose sole or substantial duties are the handling of cargo that is the product of or for use in or in connection with the industrial undertaking, whether it be bauxite, iron ore, manganese or some other material of that kind. It would Limit the exemption to those persons whose sole or substantial employment is to handle that particular product or cargo to be used in connection with the extraction and the shipment of that particular product. So it is quite apparent, when the superficially simple language of this amendment is analysed, that it will make a fundamental change in the exemption which presently exists in favour of employees who are permanently employed by undertakings such as have been described. 
It would allow the Waterside Workers Federation generally to come in and to claim the right to have as members the small group of persons who would have to be permanently employed in order to handle that limited amount of general cargo which goes across the employer's wharf. That may well be what the Minister for Labor and Immigration intends, but he must know the ramifications of it if it is what he intends. If the amendment is allowed to stand in the form in which it is proposed by the Government it would extend the monopoly which the Waterside Workers Federation is seeking right around the coastline of Australia. I know from my own experience of practice in the industrial field how anxious the Federation is to extend that monopoly right around the coast and to intrude into areas such as the one where by statute it presently is excluded and also to intrude into ports where previously it did not have the monopoly power. 
For the reasons which have been expounded by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this debate and as long ago as 1956 by the late Harold Holt, all that the Opposition seeks to do through the amendment it now proposes is to retain the exemption according to the true intention of that exemption when it was first introduced in 1956. That is a simple proposition on the Opposition's part. We would be interested to hear from the Minister just why he intends to limit the exemption still further. Nothing that he said in his second reading speech explains why he should limit this exemption in the way in which he now proposes. If the Minister has not understood the language of the Bill as introduced he has an opportunity to overcome that misunderstanding by accepting the amendment that the Opposition now proposes. If the amendment were not inadvertent but deliberate we would welcome in this Committee stage a full and ample explanation of why the Government has done what it has by the limiting language which appears in the Bill. I support the amendment which has been proposed by the Opposition. 
-At first blush the proposition contained in this Bill to amend the Constitution by way of a referendum is a thoroughly acceptable one. It is that at the same time as there is an election for the House of Representatives there should be an election for the Senate. But I remind the Government that this proposition, as acceptable as it may appear to be, was rejected by the people as recently as May 1974. The people therefore did not accept the attractiveness of the proposition. In his second reading speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that the proposal failed only narrowly to obtain the overall majority of yes votes. He failed to say in his second reading speech that the proposal failed dismally to obtain the majority of votes in the States as required by the Constitution. In fact, the proposal received a majority of votes in only one of the States. Five of the States voted no. So there was a five-to-one failure on the part of the Government in putting the proposal to the people in May 1974. 
On what grounds, then, has the Government now come back to the Parliament and said: 'Give us another chance'? It has tried once and failed. It now says: 'We want another chance to try again. Maybe they will fail a second time but, in terms of the old saying, if they try a third time they ought to have an even better chance of getting it through'. I simply ask: Why is the Government so persistent when it has already put such a proposition to the people and received the expression of the people's will as recently as 1974? 
I have put it in that way because the Governmentthe Prime Minister in particular- is so fond of calling in aid the people's will as if that gives it a mandate to do everything that it perceives is contained in the people's Will. Of course, we know that the people's will does not operate in that way. It is a concept a couple of centuries old that is quite inappropriate to today's world. 
What does the Bill actually propose to do? I think that question needs to be asked to get to the nub of the whole thing. What it proposes to do is to destroy the fixed term of tenure of membership of the Senate now given by the Constitution and to put in its place a variable term that is dependent upon the whim of the Government of the day as to when the House of Representatives will be dissolved, because by this Bill the term of a senator shall be equal to 2 terms of the House of Representatives and by the Constitution, which will not be altered in this respect by this Bill, the House of Representatives may be dissolved at any time by the Governor-General within 3 years of the election most recently past. 
If the Government were to put forward a proposal by which it would give to members of the House of Representatives a fixed term of office and then double that period so as to render the term of office of senators also fixed there might be some merit in that proposition because that is the situation arising under the United States Constitution whereby members of the House of Representatives have a fixed term of office of 2 years and members of the Senate have a term of office of 4 years. Of course, in America as in Australia there is a rotation of the senators from each of the States. But this is what the Bill seeks to do: It seeks to destroy the fixed term of office of senators and put in its place a variable term according to the life of the House of Representatives. That renders a fundamental alteration in constitutional terms of the system of government upon which our Constitution is based because our Constitution is based on the convention of the Westminster system whereby the House of Representatives may be dissolved at any time by the Governor-General, as the delegate of the Queen, upon the advice of the government of the day. That is the situation which obtains in the United Kingdom. We have seen it operate as recently as the election in early 1 974 which was lost by the then Prime Minister, Edward Heath, and the election in October 1974 which was won by the now Prime Minister, Harold Wilson. That constitutional convention is written into our Constitution by the operation of sections 5 and 28 of the Constitution. I remind the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  of those 2 provisions. Section 5 states: 
The Governor-General may appoint such times Tor holding the sessions of the Parliament as he thinks fit, and may also from time to dme, by Proclamation or otherwise, prorogue the Parliament, and may in like manner dissolve the House of Representatives. 
Section 28 of the Constitution states: 
Every House of Representatives shall continue for 3 years from the first meeting of the House, and no longer, but may be sooner dissolved by the Governor-General. 
I pricked up my ears when I heard the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  say that the House of Representatives has a term of 3 years. The honourable gentleman, with the greatest respect to him, simply has not read the Constitution because as section 28, which I have just read to the House, points out the House may be dissolved within 3 years. So the effect of acceptance of the proposal to amend the Constitution to bring about simultaneous elections will be to maintain the provision that the House of Representatives can be dissolved at any time by the Governor-General and, when that dissolution occurs, automatically the Senate shall be dissolved. That would bring about a fundamental change in the constitutional framework of this country. 
I ask the Attorney-General whether that is appreciated and whether it is really intended. If that be so, why does the Government- the Prime Minister in particular because he is the one who seems to be so anxious to bring forward these matters of constitutional reform- not at the same time seek to amend section 57 of the Constitution, which contains the double dissolution provisions? Those provisions relating to a double dissolution have been included in the Constitution to break a deadlock, to resolve a disagreement between the 2 Houses. They are very careful and explicit in their terminology and in the circumstances in which a double dissolution can be brought about. Under the present Constitution, that is the only way in which the Govern.mernt can compel an election or, more particularly, a dissolution of both the Senate and the House of Representatives at the same time. If this proposal to amend the Constitution is passed, there would never be a need for the double dissolution provisions to operate, because if the Government had one of its pieces of legislation, upon which it regarded its authority as a Government depended, rejected by the Senate, it could immediately go to the Governor-General and advise him to dissolve the House of Representatives. Automatically the Senate also would be dissolved. The Government would not have to resort to the procedure of waiting 3 months after the first rejection of the Bill by the Senate, before submitting the Bill to the House of Representatives again, sending it back to the Senate where it would be rejected once again, and then calling for a double dissolution and, in the end, convening a Joint Sitting of the 2 Houses if there should still be disagreement. 
As the honourable member for Moreton so correctly points out, section 57 would become redundant. This makes me wonder whether the Government has really thought out all the consequences of the proposal which it is putting forward now. I would not have thought that any parliament would want a Constitution which becomes something of a patchwork quilt of constitutional provisions, and this is what would happen if a proposal such as this altering just one part of the Constitution was not followed by complementary and necessary alterations to other parts of the Constitution. I think it can be fairly said- this has been recognised by constitutional lawyers, politicians, and commentators on government- that the Australian Constitution is an extremely well written document. It is extremely well framed as a document establishing institutions of government and establishing also a thoroughly consistent framework of government. There is expressed explicitly in the Constitution a balance of power between each institution of government- the Parliament, with its 2 parts, the Senate and the House of Representatives; the executive government drawn, in the Westminister tradition, from that parliament; and the judicature, separate from parliament and the executive. There is a balanced framework of government which I venture to suggest, if this proposal were passed by the people, would be put into serious imbalance. 
Looking at the matter in practical terms, as has already been pointed out in this debate, there is a ready means by which this Government can bring about simultaneous elections by calling a House of Representatives election- that is, by calling that election, pursuant to the authority of section 28 of the Constitution, at the same time as the next Senate election which must be held before 30 June 1 976. This is precisely what  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, did in 1955 in order to bring back into line the House of Representatives and Senate elections. He took advantage of section 28 of the Constitution and advised the Governor-General to dissolve the House of Representatives. The Governor-General did that, and so we had simultaneous elections of the 2 Houses of the Parliament. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is so fond of relying on the statements and actions of  Sir Robert  Menzies in justifying his own constitutional statements and the constitutional position that he so frequently adopts these days, let him do what  Sir Robert  Menzies did in 1955. In that way he can accept the decision of the people at the referendum of May 1 974 when the people said that they did not want the proposal which is now before the House. If the Prime Minister were to do what  Sir Robert  Menzies did in 1955, he would bring about simultaneous elections of the 2 Houses of this Parliament in a practicable, sensible, efficient and less costly way. He could, in that very practical way, thereby maintain the stability of our present Constitution. He would not distort the framework of government, which is so wonderfully written into the present Constitution, and he would maintain the excellence of it as a balanced framework of government where each institution has its place clearly expressed by the present Constitution of Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr James  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I rise to speak on this Bill having been denied the opportunity of speaking on the Bill which has just passed its third reading. That first Bill which has been passed, the Privy Council Appeals Abolition Bill, is intended to abolish appeals to the Privy Council from State courts in wholly State matters by means of a request from this Parliament to the Parliament of the United Kingdom to act in accordance with the Statute of Westminster. However, the Bm that we are now debating is of a different kind, because in respect of this Bill the Parliament is seeking to exercise the power that it has under section 74 of the Constitution to make laws limiting the matters in which leave to appeal to the Privy Council may be sought. I say that, because in his speech the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  sought to roll up into one speech the justification of the Government for limiting matters in which leave to appeal to the Privy Council may be sought, that is, by abolishing altogether appeals to the Privy Council either from the High Court of Australia or from State Supreme Courts. He used the same argument in respect of the abolition of appeals from both those jurisdictions, speaking, as the honourable member for Bennolong  (Mr Howard)  has mentioned, about the flowering of the Common Law, how its growth may be stunted in Australia if these appeals to the Privy Council are maintained, speaking in high terms of the eminence of the High Court of Justice in the Common Law jurisdictions of the world. These are things which I and my fellow lawyers would wholeheartedly agree with, and eminent judicial persons in all Common Law jurisdictions of the world would also testify to them. The High Court truly has a proud tradition in the Common Law world and it is a tradition which has been in no way detracted from by the fact that appeals may be taken to the Privy Council. 
The important thing to which I would draw attention m this debate is the fact that the legal authority which this Government seeks to rely on in the present Bill, namely, section 74 of the Constitution, is not available to it in respect of the Bill to abolish appeals to the Privy Council from the State Supreme Courts. That is interesting because of the penchant which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has for asserting the supremacy of the Australian Parliament. Yet we have the Constitution of Australia, which again he is so fond of using as authority for his stand on the constitutional proposition that he so often propounds before this Parliament, giving to this Parliament supremacy in respect of appeals to the Privy Council from the High Court; but it deliberately does not give that same supremacy in respect of appeals to the Privy Council from the State Supreme Courts. The importance of the distinction is this: Whilst the Government can simply and quickly turn to the authority of section 74 of the Constitution and the supremacy of Parliament in respect of appeals from the High Court to the Privy Council, it must seek some other legal authority in order to give effect to its view that there should not be such a thing as an appeal from a State Supreme Court directly to the Privy Council. 
The Attorney-General has referred in this debate to legalisms expressed by members of the Opposition, as if that were some criticism of them. But in making that criticism he completely misconceives the point of argument of the Opposition, because legality not a legalism. Legality is the source of constitutional authority, and whilst the Government can find a source of constitutional authority for the Bill that we are now debating it is on dubious ground indeed to find a source of constitutional authority in seeking to abolish appeals from State Supreme Courts to the Privy Council. In the latter case the Prime Minister is seeking to resort to legality to override the wishes of the State and thereby to give effect to his own opinion that appeals should not lie from State Supreme Courts to the Privy Council. 
The Prime Munster cannot bring himself to recognise the subtlety of the Australian Constitution in this field. Particularly he cannot bring himself to recognise that, at the same time as all States are bound by the Constitution into one indissoluble union, that is, into the Australian nation, they also draw legal authority in significant ways directly from the Parliament of the United Kingdom. By the measures that he introduced into this House in the Bill that has already been passed he seeks to cut across that direct stream of legal authority from the States to the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The mistake that the Prime Minister makes is that abolition of appeals from State courts to the Privy Council in wholly State matters is not a legal question but a political question and, being a political question, it can derive authority and it can derive expression of the will of the people only from the people of the State concerned. In the same way as whether or not each State joined in the formation of the Commonwealth of Australia in 1900 was a political question decided by a referendum of the people in those States, so also the question of whether or not appeals from State Supreme Courts to the Privy Council should be abolished can be decided only by the people of those States. Whatever legal subtlety the Attorney-General tries to embark upon, whatever legal nicety the Prime Minister seeks to embark upon, they cannot in the end move away from the undoubted fact. That is why we in the Opposition who believe that in the end the High Court of Australia should be at the pinnacle of the judicial systems of Australia will support the Bill now before the House. It derives its legal authority from section 74 of the Constitution, but we see a distortion brought upon the Constitution, a violence upon the Constitution if you like, by the methods that the Prime Minister has sought to use in respect of his proposal to abolish appeals from the State courts to the Privy Council. 
So there is nothing inconsistent in the approach of the Opposition to these 2 Bills. We have a singular purpose, as the Government has. We see that each purpose must be achieved by moving along a different path, and if the Government would move along the correct path in respect of the Bill to abolish appeals from the State courts to the Privy Council then the Bill would have a much better chance of acceptance by this Opposition, in the same way as the Government is receiving acceptance for its proposal to limit appeals from the High Court to the 
Privy Council, acting in accordance with the authority of section 74 of the Constitution. So it is a pity in a matter of this kind, which is important because of the impact that the proposals will have upon the Constitution of Australia, that the Government should gag the debate on the first Bill and no doubt, after I have spoken, gag the debate on this Bill. I often wonder why on matters of such importance it is so anxious to gag the debate, but that is what happens. Many things are done by the Government which puzzle not only the Opposition but also many other people. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-In this adjournment debate I should like to raise the matter of the propriety of the appointment of the Honourable  Mr Justice  Murphy, as he now is, to the High Court of Australia, and also the matter of the propriety of the decision by the Government of New South Wales in respect of the appointment of a person to fill the casual vacancy created by the elevation of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy. I do that in this House because I consider that matters of the Constitution should not be abdicated by this House. We are an integral part of this Parliament- that goes without saying- and as such we are an integral part of the political framework of this country. Too often this House leaves constitutional matters to be debated by the other House of this Parliament and in other places outside this Parliament. I think that does a disservice to this House. 
I also enter this debate because I feel that, having regard to what has been written in the Press, what has been said privately and what has been said in another place, much has been left to be desired with regard to the constitutional perspective with which this whole question must be approached. I also wish to say something tonight having regard to the 'Address to the Nation' by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  last Sunday, 16 February. I refer to that 'Address to the Nation' particularly because the Prime Minister called in aid his concept of democracy and his concept of what the Constitution of Australia required in the filling of this casual vacancy created by the elevation of  Mr Justice  Murphy. 
It is so very easy for a person to use fancy words and to call in aid democracy to justify whatever he does or whatever attitude he takes. But, behind those fancy words, I think it is a salutary lesson to have a look at the written word, what the written word authorises, and what the implications of the written word are. Let us take first the appointment of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy to the High Court. Appointments of justices to the High Court are by the GovernorGeneral of Australia in Council. That is the 
Executive Council of Australia constituted under and by virtue of the Constitution of Australia. It is not simply the constitutional practice, because that does not pay due regard to the principle; but the constitutional requirement is that the GovernorGeneral, being the delegate of the Queen, Will act on the advice of the executive government of the country. That executive government, of course, is the Government led by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam. 
So, it was on the Government's advice that the Governor-General appointed  Mr Justice  Murphy. That was done with strict legal authority and propriety. I cast no opinion as to the propriety of the appointment of  His  Honour to the High Court. Whatever I think of that is a private opinion; whatever any member of this House or the other place thinks about that appointment is a private opinion; and so I say nothing about that private opinion because I do not think it is appropriate to the vital constitutional question which we must aU ask ourselves. 
-These 2 Bills now being dealt with in a cognate debate were introduced into this House and into the Senate in July last year. They are being introduced again, as the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  pointed out in his second reading speech, after a lapse of 3 months since the Senate failed to pass them in July 1974. 1 mention that because I am rather intrigued why the Government should have waited in fact for 7 months before reintroducing these Bills. It is apparent that along with other Bills which it is now reintroducing and which had previously been rejected by the Senate or had failed to pass the Senate, the Government is reintroducing these 2 Bills. Whether it has in mind a double dissolution and whether this action on its part is a prelude to a double dissolution, of course I do not know. But if that is the intention of the Government it ought to be prepared to say so. If it is looking upon the reintroduction of this legislation as merely a formality, expecting that it will be opposed again by the Opposition in this House and rejected again by the Senate, let it make quite clear what its position is. 
This legislation is of considerable importance to the mining industry in areas other than petroleum exploration and development, because these Bills deal with or are related only to minerals other than petroleum. Petroleum offshore is covered by the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. It is the intention of the Government to deal with minerals off-shore in quite a different manner from that adopted in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. At no time has there been any explanation by the Minister for Minerals and Energy of why it is the desire of the Government to treat minerals in a manner which is different from the manner in which it treats petroleum. There may be a key to it in the second reading speech of the Minister. In his second reading speech he said:   the passage of this Bill will again emphasise the importance we attach to the exercising by the national Parliament of its sovereign powers over the off-shore area in relation to off-shore mining activities. 
But it is pertinent to observe, in the light of that remark, that the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, by which the Government seeks to assert and establish its sovereignty over the off-shore areas of this nation, is presently the subject of litigation before the High Court of Australia. Of course, the situation is that, if the High Court holds that this Parliament did not have the power to pass that legislation, then this Parliament has no authority in terms of sovereign rights, to quote the Minister's phrase, over the off-shore area in relation to mining activities. So it is quite a presumption on the part of the Government, when the Seas and Submerged Lands Act is to be dealt with by the High Court within the next 2 months, 
I understand, to introduce this legislation. It really can only expect that the Opposition will oppose it, if for no other reason than that it would be a presumption on the part of the Parliament to pass this legislation when such action might be negated by the decision of the High Court. I would fully expect that the Senate would take the same attitude- it has every right to take that attitude- and say to the Government: 'If you have waited 7 months since these Bills were last before the Parliament and rejected, why can you not wait another two or three months until the decision of the High Court is brought down? ' 
The other question which needs to be asked and has never really been answered by the Minister is why the pattern of joint administration by the States and the Commonwealth over petroleum exploration and development in offshore areas, as provided for by the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, has not been followed in respect of other mining activities. In other federations where this same question of the authority of the central government or the provincial or State governments over off-shore areas has been an issue, the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act has been held up as a hallmark of cooperation within a federation instead of a persistent confrontation between the 2 forms of government, which can lead only to divisiveness, a slackening of exploration and outrage by the provincial or State governments at the attempted takeover by the central government particularly because of the financial ramifications of such a takeover. 
Indeed, that has been the experience both in the United States of America and Canada. Litigation is still going on in both of those countries in respect of the rights of the central government as against the provincial or State governments over off-shore areas that have not yet been explored. The eastern seaboard of the United States of America has been talked about for many years- particularly recently in the light of the oil crisis- as being highly prospective for oil and gas exploration. But the original States of the United States of America are still asserting a right to control or to administer that exploration on the eastern seaboard. In much the same way, some of the eastern provinces of Canada, because of the historic lateness of their entry into the Federation of Canada, have asserted their right to have exclusive control over the off-shore areas. That litigation is still going on in those 2 great federations, whereas in Australia some six or seven years ago we found a solution to that confrontation between governments in the one federation. We found the solution in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 
Reference could be made, if necessary, to articles written by prominent commentatorsboth legal and government commentators- on the virtues of that legislation as an instrument of co-operation intended to avoid, as it did for so many years, the devastation of litigation. When the Labor Government came into power in 1972 it took deliberate action to destroy that spirit of co-operation epitomised by that Act. In explanation of the drastic drop-off in exploration offshore, the Minister says these days that nothing can be done to accelerate exploration until the High Court brings down its decision on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. Nothing could be further from the truth, because the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act is still in existence and as fully operative as it was before the Seas and Submerged Lands Act was passed by this House. There is nothing to stop the Minister from giving full effect to that legislation and co-operating with the States in accelerating exploration offshore. Anyone who knows the oil industry in Australia knows that there is the very distinct possibility that there will be not one rig operating off-shore from Australia by March of this year. 
I mention these things because the Minister certainly does not have a record of administration in off-shore areas of which he can be proud. If the inadequacies of his administration are to be given legislative effect by the passage of these 2 Bills, then I do not think that Australia has before it a very great future in relation to the exploration and development of minerals in off-shore areas. There are other very good practical reasons why in the exploration and development of minerals off-shore, there should be cooperative administration by the States and the Commonwealth. One needs only put, say, 2 examples. One of these examples was mentioned in the Senate in the debate on the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill on 24 July 1974 by  Senator Webster.  Where there is a coal seam over which a company has been granted a licence by the State- because States have the exclusive authority to grant licences for exploration of minerals on shore- and that coal seam or the continuity of geological structure extends off-shore, the company must apply for a licence, if this Government has its way, from the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth Government could conceivably under its mineral code impose 
Suite different conditions of exploration and development from those imposed under the terms of the licence or lease given by the State government. 
I take as another example oil exploration. Where the permit to explore is for an area which covers both on-shore and off-shore structuresagain with a continuity of a geological structureunder this Government's proposal where onshore licences to explore are the exclusive province of the State government, when it comes to drilling and producing off-shore, the company must go to the Commonwealth Government, under its mineral code, and it could face a totally different set of conditions for exploration and development from those which had been granted to it by the State government. So whatever might be the design or desire of the present Government to exercise what it sees to be the sovereign rights of this Parliament over off-shore areas, there are very good practical reasons why it should approach the exercise of those sovereign rights, if it is shown by the High Court to have them, in a co-operative way rather than in a destructive way. 
Right from the inception of his ministry the Minister for Minerals and Energy could have introduced legislation to deal with minerals offshore in a similar pattern as that which already exists under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. Indeed, no doubt he could have immediately sought to reach with the States agreement similar to that which underpins the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and extended the terms of that legislation and the mining code established by it to minerals other than petroleum. That, one would have expected, would have been a simple exercise in good government because there is an established pattern of cooperation with which the States, up to December 1972, were perfectly happy and with which the Commonwealth government of the time was perfectly happy. Under that pattern of cooperative administration oil exploration in Australia had given to the nation a selfsufficiency in oil of some 70 per cent, whereas since the administration of the Minister for Minerals and Energy although that figure of 70 per cent has for the last 3 years continued to be used, anyone who knows the industry knows that the figure is fast reducing according to the rate of rundown of the reserves of the producing fields because there has been no discovery of oil to increase the known reserves of crude oil in Australia. 
At the continued rate of consumption the inevitable must happen- by about the early 1980s the existing reserves will run down to the point where there will not be 70 per cent selfsufficiency. It might come down to something like 30 per cent with the drastic economic consequences for the nation as a whole of the increasing cost of importing crude oil whereas if there had been a spirit of co-operation in administration by this Government of oil exploration offshore the oil drillers, given the incentive and the opportunity could have got on with the job, and we might well have been able to maintain a 70 per cent self-sufficiency in crude oil. 
From what we know up to now there is a great future for the exploration for and development of minerals off-shore. It will be expensive to explore off-shore and even more expensive to develop the resources. Some off-shore exploration is going on in certain parts of the world. The Hughes organisation, for example, recently took a ship to explore off-shore Hawaii. There is consternation that there is not international agreement on the circumstances in which this offshore mineral exploration can go on. It is an expensive and highly technical operation. Few countries have the necessary technology, let alone the necessary finance, to accomplish even a small degree of exploration. Not only do we need to have a mining code which establishes a sound basis of administration of these off-shore areas but also we ought to know what the Government plans to do about exploration, to what extent it will promote exploration and whom it will let in to explore. Will it allow, for example, overseas investors with the funds that they can command on an international basis and with the technology which I have mentioned is in such short supply in the world, to enter the off-shore areas of Australia. I do not know of any Australian firms which have the technology and the financial capacity to embark upon that kind of enterprise. 
We see no discussion of those kinds of things in the Minister's second reading speech. He really says nothing at all. Regarding the earlier Bills, the Minister has made no attempt to outline the intentions or proposals of the Government with respect to exploration and possible development of off-shore mining areas. So in that vacuum, and having regard to the matters that I have mentioned, I suppose the Minister did not really expect members of the Opposition to change their views previously expressed in July 1974. And we have not changed our views. We continue to think that this legislation is illconsidered and badly timed, more particularly because presently before the High Court is a case involving the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. This case will determine whether this Parliament has any legislative power over the off-shore areas of Australia. Until the High Court makes its determination I think the Minister ought to withdraw this Bill. If the High Court upholds the powers of the national Parliament in this field he can reintroduce the Bill in a way which is likely to receive acceptance by not only this Parliament but also by the parliaments of all the States of Australia. 
-The legislation we are now considering is before the House for at least the second time in its present form. Originally it was part of a much larger Bill, the first one of which was introduced by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he occupied that portfolio after the election of the present Government in December 1972. It is intriguing to note that there has been quite a length of time between each occasion that this Bill has been before the House. The first time around, the legislation was part of his original conciliation and arbitration amendment Bill. The Bill which was rejected by the Senate did not qualify as a double dissolution Bill at the last double dissolution in May 1974 because the original Bill was not re-introduced in its original form but was split up into several parts. So we have the separate Bills that we are now debating tonight. 
Again, when the present Bill was first introduced and rejected it did not qualify as a double dissolution Bill. It was then re-introduced in July 1974 in its present form. It was rejected then by the Senate and now, some 7 months later, it has been introduced again, apparently so that it will qualify as a double dissolution BUI if the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his 
Government are game enough to bring on a double dissolution. Whether or not that happens remains to be seen. But one thing can be said against that background: At least the Minister for Labor and Immigration is a trier. The record of his Ministry does not really show any great qualities of administration, but then, as I have said, at least he is a trier. The number of stoppages and strikes during his administration has been greater than at anytime since, I think, 1 929. That is a mean record indeed for any Minister for Labor to have. 
I recall that last year, with a great parade of publicity, the Minister convened an industrial peace conference. The conference was called with the objective of overcoming the obstruction, as the Minister would call it, of the Senate in rejecting his original Bill. Of course, that industrial peace conference did not approve the Minister's proposals and he is now attempting again to get them through this Parliament. So he failed with his peace conference. We also have the present example of his proposals in the wage indexation case that is presently before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It is quite obvious from the published statements of the most important white collar unions in Australia that they do not accept the Minister's proposals for wage indexation, nor indeed does the Australian Council of Trade Unions. So there is another failure on the part of the Minister. 
Of course, at the pinnacle of the honourable gentleman's success, is the 31 1 000 unemployed in Australia at the present time. This situation has arisen under the administration of the man who said that he would resign and his Government ought to resign if unemployment grew to 250 000 people. Regrettably we still see the Minister holding his portfolio and still sitting at the table. This also is no mean record for this Minister. There is no great virtue in the proposals for amalgamation of unions that he brings before the House. On the close examination those proposals have been given by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is the shadow Minister for Labor, it is obvious that these proposals ought not to be accepted by either this House or the Senate and it is believed that they do not really meet with the acceptance of the trade union movement of Australia. 
I would like to deal with 2 points made by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  in trying to support this legislation and some of the matters referred to by the Minister in his second reading speech when he also tried to support the legislation. Firstly, the honourable member for Burke said that when there is a ballot conducted by an Australian electoral officer that ballot will be held in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth under the Commonwealth Electoral Act. That, of course, by even the merest glance at the Bill can be shown to be wrong. I refer the honourable member to proposed new section 158L(5) which expressly says that where a ballot is conducted by an Australian electoral officer it shall be conducted:   . . so far as is reasonably practicable and is consistent with this Pan, in accordance with any rules of the organisation that are applicable. 
I notice that the honourable member nods his agreement with what I have pointed out to him. The honourable member also referred to the fact that the proposal for amalgamation must be published, and so it must be in a journal of the organisation, if there is one, or if not in a metropolitan daily newspaper. What the honourable member did not point out is that there is no requirement that there be sent to all members of the amalgamating unions a case for and against the amalgamation. We know that it cannot possibly be sufficient to inform the members of a union simply by publishing a notice, either in the union journal or in a metropolitan daily newspaper, of the fact that there is a scheme for amalgamation. 
One of the main areas of concern over the Minister's proposals, if not the critical one, is the amendment that he desires to make in regard to the number of members of an organisation who must vote in favour of an amalgamation before that can be brought about. It is worthwhile pointing out that under the existing legislation onehalf of the membership must vote and there must be a majority of that one-half before the amalgamation can be approved. Under the Minister's proposal all that is required is a majority of the members who vote. As the honourable member for Wannon has pointed out, there might be only 7 members out of a membership of 10 000 voting in the ballot and if a majority of that seven approves the amalgamation, then it goes through. I could not think of anything more undemocratic than the proposal of the Minister. It is undemocratic because at the heart of unionism is the concept that it is a voluntary organisation of employees joining together for the common cause of seeking wage advantages for themselves and better conditions of work. Essentially it is a voluntary organisation of employees joining together for their own industrial benefit. If it is an organisation of that kind, then one would think that the simple rules of democracy ought to prevail before those members can be amalgamated with another organisation into a new union. 
In those terms, what is at the heart of the existing legislation is the idea that there should be as near as practicable a majority of the members of a union in favour of amalgamation before that should be allowed to come into effect. I have yet to understand, let alone hear from the Minister, any good reason why the ordinary rules of democracy should not prevail in this situation, more particularly because so often we hear, and properly so, within the trade union movement in Australia the assertion that unionism is one of the most democratic organisations within Australian society. That cannot possibly be so if simply a majority of those members who vote in favour of an amalgamation are allowed to force amalgamation on all the members of the union. The Minister unhesitatingly says that the intention behind his Bill is to make amalgamations easier and he wants to break down barriers to amalgamation. By allowing just a handful of members of a union to force amalgamation upon the majority of members, seems to me to be a complete misconception of what amounts to the breaking down of barriers. It is really, as I have said, a denial of industrial democracy to the whole membership of the union concerned. 
There is one other aspect which I think ought to be brought to the attention of the House, and that is the consequences of allowing the greater concentration of union power into fewer and fewer unions because this is what inevitably will happen if this Bill is passed. As has already been pointed out in this debate, 70 per cent of the membership of unions in Australia is within only 33 unions. Obviously what will happen if amalgamation becomes easier is that the big unions will amalgamate into even bigger unions and increasingly there will be fewer unions with immense membership and fantastic incomes running into millions of dollars far beyond their ordinary needs for administration and to serve the industrial interests of their members. There will then be an even higher degree of monopoly power in unionism in Australia than there is at present. 
When we hear members of this Government, particularly members such as the Minister, making an outcry against monopoly power of corporations within commerce and industry in Australia it is little wonder that the public cannot understand why this Government is not concerned about the increasing monopoly power of unions within Australia. Corporations of capital and corporations of labour very largely have a common history, and I have heard the Minister speak about this before. In the same way as monopoly corporate power can have anti-social consequences for a community through, for example, restrictive trade practices, price fixing, cartels operating, commercial boycotting of competitors and so on, then the same kind of antisocial practices can derive from monopoly union power. I refer to black bans, boycotts, both primary and secondary, and strikes. All of these are weapons of monopoly power. There will come the time very shortly when the Australian community will want from this national Parliament effective laws which will control monopoly union power in the same way as it desires effective laws to control monopoly corporate power. 
I mention those things because they do arise from a proposal by the Minister for easier amalgamations. They are something on which the Australian society needs to be informed. I think it is high time that debate within Australia on this subject is lifted to a much higher level so that the attention of the community is directed to it, and when proposals are put forward by either party for spreading the umbrella of the law over unions as well as corporations the true social purpose of those proposals can be seen and it will be appreciated that those proposals will be for the benefit of the community as a whole and will not be simply an instrument or a weapon, nor could they be labelled as such, for union bashing. 
-Last night during debate on the motion that the House adjourn I spoke of the constitutional propriety of the appointment by the Governor-General of Australia on the advice of the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy to the High Court. I also spoke of the constitutional propriety of the proposal of the Government of New South Wales to act in accordance with the requirements of section 15 of the Constitution in having a joint sitting of the 2 Houses of the New South Wales Parliament to select a person to fill the casual vacancy created by the elevation of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy. 
What I want to speak specifically about tonight is the appointment of  His  Honour to the High Court. There can be no doubt of the constitutional propriety of the actions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  through his Government, and of the advice which his Government gave to the Governor-General to have the then Attorney-General appointed to the High Court. Having regard to that, it is quite apparent that the Prime Minister was prepared to take every political advantage of his ability to act in strict constitutional propriety in this matter. However, when I listened to the Prime Minister's address to the nation on Sunday, 16 February 1975, I was concerned to hear the context in which he referred to the appointment in the past by the Australian Government of 5 other Australian Attorneys-General to the position of judge, four of them to the High Court of Australia and one, Chief Judge Spicer, to the Industrial Court. In the same context the Prime Minister referred to the fact that this century 12 English AttorneysGeneral had been appointed Lords-Chancellor, Lords-Chief Justice or a Lord- Justice of Appeal. 
I think it is important to point out to the House that there is a clear distinction between the position of judges of the High Court of Australia who have formerly been the Attorney-General of the Australian Government and appointment to the high judicial offices within the English judicial system. The difference is that the United Kingdom does not have a written constitution and therefore no piece of legislation may be declared by the judiciary in the United Kingdom to be constitutionally invalid. That is an important distinction because the Constitution of Australia gives to the High Court the authority to declare legislation constitutionally invalid by reason of the fact that the legislation does not fall within any of the expressed powers given by. the Constitution to the Australian Parliament. So when a judge in the United Kingdom is called upon to give a judgment in a matter what he does is to apply the law of the land to the particular facts of the case before him without having any capacity or authority to call into question the validity of that law. So there is simply left to the United Kingdom judge the task of properly interpreting the legislation and then on a proper interpretation of the law applying it to the particular facts of the case as found by him. So there is no opportunity in the United Kingdom for law to be declared constitutionally invalid. That immediately throws into stark difference the position of Attorneys-General of the Australian Government appointed to the High Court of Australia because those judges are then in a position required by their oath to make a judgment on the validity of laws passed by this Parliament and introduced by the Government of which they were a Minister. 
I remember one celebrated case in which the Earl of Halsbury, one of the most eminent of English members of the House of Lords, declined to pass judgment on the meaning of a particular law because he had advised the government of the day in the drafting of it. How much more necessary is it then for members of the High Court who have previously been members of a government which has been instrumental in the passing of a law to be so very careful in the stand that they take in the High Court when they are called upon to judge the constitutional validity of that law. 
So when the Prime Minister of Australia goes before the people seeking to justify the stand or actions that he took and to condemn the actions of another government, I think it behoves him to state correctly the context in which he presents his arguments. I notice that in an article in today's edition of the Sydney 'Sun'  Sir Mellis  Napier, former Lieutenant-Governor of South Australia and former Chief Justice of the South Australian Supreme Court, is quoted as saying that the appointment of a judge to the High Court ought not to be treated as a matter of political expediency but as a question in which the whole of Australia had a keen and vital interest. There can be no doubt that the Prime Minister in advising the Governor-General pursuant to the Constitution to appoint the then  Senator Murphy  to the High Court took every political advantage at his command and given to him by the Constitution of Australia to appoint his own AttorneyGeneral to the High Court at a time when the Prime Minister knew that a number of pieces of legislation introduced by his Government and passed by this Parliament, either in the ordinary way of passing legislation or after a joint sitting of the 2 Houses, are subject to litigation in the High Court on the grounds that they are constitutionally invalid as not falling within the powers of the Commonwealth under the Constitution. 

 - Sir John Spicer is in a totally different position from judges of the High Court because he does not have to pass judgment on the constitutional validity of legislation that comes before him. When the Conciliation and Arbitration Act comes before the judges of the Industrial Court they are in exactly the same position as the United Kingdom judges to whom I have referred. They are obliged to interpret the law and then apply it to the particular facts of the case. If anyone wants to challenge the constitutional validity of any part of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act they have to take out a writ of prohibition and remove the matter into the High Court of Australia where the constitutional validity will be determined. 
So let us not have any more hypocrisy in addresses to the nation by any member of this or any other Parliament, let alone the Prime Minister of this country. Let him not speak in terms of violence to democracy when he does not present in proper context his own arguments in justification of his own action because, as I have said, in appointing the then  Senator Murphy  to the High Court the Prime Minister undoubtedly took every political advantage at his command, acting as he did with strict constitutional propriety. 
-The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  begins each of his speeches in the same way. He goes into a tirade against the  speaker  before him, condemning everything he has said out of hand, accusing him of not having any compassion for the poor, the sick or the needy. I would suggest to the honourable member that he desist from continuing that kind of tirade because it is ringing rather hollow in these chambers. Nobody really takes any notice of the honourable member when he speaks in that fashion. I would remind him, however, when he speaks of the standing of the Opposition in this Parliament, of the events which took place in this chamber this morning and of the most disgraceful conduct by any member of the House, I would think, in living memory and probably in the history of this Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest that the honourable gentleman speak to the Bill. 
-There is no doubt of the importance of home ownership to Australians and to Australia. It is something which is enshrined in the philosophy of the Liberal Party because we believe that for the great bulk of the community a home will be the most substantial single asset they will hold during their lifetime. For the great bulk of middle income people and those on more moderate incomes that statement is well founded. It is as well to remind ourselves when we speak on a subject such as housing that Australia has a remarkable record with regard to the distribution of wealth. We have an egalitarian distribution of wealth in Australia which has evolved over the last 50 to 60 years. A census taken in 1915 indicated that the top one per cent of families in Australia owned 39 per cent of the country's wealth, a concentration that compares with the current United Kingdom and United States of America levels of 42 per cent and 32 per cent respectively. There could be many mechanisms involved in the process over the last half century which has led to the egalitarian distribution of wealth I have mentioned, and in particular by which today some 99 per cent of Australian families have increased their share of the nation's private wealth from 61 per cent to 91 per cent- a very high proportion indeed. 
It would appear from well founded studies that the dominant factor creating such egalitarian distribution of wealth arises from the degree of home ownership in Australia rather than that created by other mechanisms operating within the community, particularly savings. So we can point to so much of the wealth of individuals in the homes which they own. Within the philosophy of the Liberal Party we have always sought an underpinning of the widest distribution of wealth through an instrument of private ownership such as the family home. 
It is remarkable against that background to hear a speech of the kind that we heard from the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins)  earlier this afternoon. In it he reluctantly- you could discern it in the tone of his voice as well as in the things that he said- acknowledged the importance of home ownership, although he referred to it in such ways as so-called free choice of a home and so-called private ownership. It is quite clear from the speech of the honourable member that he would much rather see State ownership of homes and all people who live in homes the tenants of the State. He is a gentleman coming from my own State of Western Australia and I am sure his views, if put forward to the people on public platforms as well as in this House, would soon be shown to be totally unacceptable to the community. 
What the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  is proposing to do by this Bill is to create a Crown corporation. It is as well to notice the utilisation by this Government of the Crown corporation as an instrument to achieve its own political philisophy of socialisation and nationalisation. Those in the Australian Labor Party who would pursue those policies know that outright nationalisation is impossible to achieve within the terms of the Australian Constitution. Therefore they mustand I give them credit for this- seek other ways of achieving that objective. They believe that they have found one such way in the formulation of the Crown corporation. We have seen this repeated, for example, by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in the formation of the National Pipeline Authority and in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, both Crown corporations intended to concentrate ownership in the state which, coupled with the financial power of the Commonwealth, intrude into the activities of the community in a large measure. It is done, as is so often described, under the euphemism of public enterprise, and that is a completely misleading description of what this Government proposes to do by means of these Crown corporations. 
When one has regard to the massive financial power available to the Commonwealth through the taxes that it raises from the people and when that massive financial power is diverted, not to private individuals or private corporations but to Crown or public corporations, it places those corporations in a tremendous position of advantage within the economy. I dare say that we will, or we would if this Government was allowed to continue, see a repetition on a grand scale of the formation of Crown corporations in all those fields of activity which are encompassed in the powers given to the Commonwealth by the Constitution. 
I believe it is wrong for any community to allow the concentration of such power in the hands of public corporations of this kind. I firmly believe, in accordance with the Liberal philosophy, that much the better way in which to organise society is to allow the greatest economic freedom to individuals by seeing that the total income and the total wealth of the community are distributed on as wide a base as is possible down to the individuals. To the extent that financial power through income and wealth is diverted from individuals and placed into the hands of the state through Crown corporations such as this, individuals are denied economic freedom, and economic freedom is a fundamental of personal freedom. 
This is why I take the opportunity now to endeavour to point out the differences between the philosophy of the Liberal and Country Parties who believe in individual economic freedom and private enterprise and the philosophy of public enterprise and nationalisation of the socialists who occupy the Government benches today. In that regard I would have expected that the Minister, if he were pursuing a program of greater economic freedom for individuals to acquire their own homes and to be able to afford to pay for those homes during their lifetime, would have looked to providing mechanisms or facilities through the private financial institutions of Australia for giving to the people the financial capacity to acquire their own homes. For example, I refer to a facility to allow for the discounting of all those home mortgages which have been insured by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation and the various other private insurers, thereby recycling the hundreds of millions of dollars also invested in housing mortgages. That would release a lot more credit for the use of individuals throughout the community for this noble purpose of acquiring their own homes. What we have instead is something which draws off from the community, through taxation, money which would otherwise be available to individuals, and distributes it back to the community according to the whims and wishes of the Government. I for my part would rather see individuals left with more money in their pockets to use as they want than to see more and more drawn out of their pockets and into the coffers of the Government. 
A second such facility could be to extend to lending institutions in the home finance field facilities like lender of last resort, or some form of Reserve Bank support so that those private financial institutions may be more secure in the borrowing policies that they are able to follow. In that way the Government might be able to ensure a sufficient flow of money into this field of finance to enable fixed interest rate mortgages rather than the variable interest rate mortgages which are so commonplace in Australia today. If there was one thing more than another which was felt by home buyers in Australia during the financial squeeze put upon them by the high interest rate policies of the Government it was the increase in the rates of interest which private financial institutions like permanent building societies had to embark upon if they were to survive during that period. With those high interest rates the home buyer found that he was being priced out of his capacity to buy the home that he thought he would have no difficulty in buying when entering into the financial arrangements some years- indeed some months- before. I think it would be a worthy purpose for the Government to carry out a full scale investigation into ways and means of establishing within Australia as the commonplace system of finance a system whereby interest rates are fixed during the term of the mortgage or at least are variable only after a considerable length of time. 

 - Mr Minister, you referred to that and that is why I have suggested that what you ought to be doing is looking at facilities which would enable lending institutions like permanent building societies to have that back-up financial support whereby they would not be subject to the vagaries of the interest rate policies of the government of the day and so could lend to people on long term fixed rates, or at rates reviewable only at fixed times during the term of the financial arrangement. I would have thought that that would be by far the better thing for this Government to do than to seek to establish this Australian Housing Corporation. It could still pursue all its objectives in the field of providing finance under the Defence Service Homes Act, for homes for pensioners, for homes for Aborigines and for public servants and others for whom the Government may legislate under its constitutional powers. It may do for all those classes of people all that it wants to do without creating this monster of an Australian Housing Corporation. 
If there is one thing that is abundantly clear out of the recent experience of home buyers it is that the middle income earner is the one who is being hurt most by the high interest rate policies of the present Government. The low income earner has been protected by the provision of welfare housing and by schemes such as that instituted in my own State of Western Australia by the State Liberal-Country Party Government to provide support in hardship cases and of course there is limited financial capacity on the part of State governments to provide for all hardship cases. The low income earners, the people who need welfare housing- hardship cases- have been provided for in these hard times of high interest rate policy but it is the middle income earner who has been caught in the squeeze and there is nothing in this legislation that the Corporation can do to assist those middle income earners who are already buying their home and who are caught by the continuing high interest rate policies of this Government. 
The Government, of course, might well turn to the scheme for the tax deductibility of mortgage interest payments but it is well known- I will not elaborate on this-that there are so many anomalies and inadequacies in that scheme that the middle income earner is not truly assisted in the increased payments that he must make due to the higher interest rate policies of this Government. 
I also mention in answer to what is so often put forward in justification of the Government's policies- the so-called inadequacies of 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. I mention these hallmarks of the. policies and activities of the Menzies Government which have supported that great egalitarian distribution of wealth through home ownership which we now find in Australia: Firstly, the homes savings grant scheme, secondly, the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation; thirdly, the creation of savings banks primarily for the purpose of lending for home purchase- something which is so often forgotten is that savings banks were the creation of the Menzies Government- fourthly, the tremendous growth of the permanent building society movement throughout Australia in the 20 years of the Menzies and other Liberal governments; and fifthly, the growth of terminating building societies and under-pinning all of this activity a stable economy, which is something that all people in Australia would wish that we could look forward to in the future but there is no hope under the present Government. It may be, and we would expect that with the return of a Liberal-Country Party government we could again have stable economic conditions which would underpin the provision of finance for private ownership of homes. This Bill does nothing to add to that great record. The Opposition shadow Minister for Housing has already outlined many of the fundamental objections which the Opposition Parties have to this Bill. Other speakers on this side have also referred to certain parts of it but I would only be repeating many of the things that they have said if I went through each of these clauses in turn. 
Clauses 28 to 33 are the important ones because they allow government by regulation. It has been recognised over many years in all parliaments that government by regulation is bad and one could not find a better example of bad government by regulation than in clauses 28 to 33. The Bill itself should state clearly what are the criteria upon which the Government may be a lender to approved lenders for housing, the criteria by which it may make grants- that is, give a subsidy to people- and by which it may make loans to individuals, and the terms upon which it could sell and lease to people. Under this legislation all of these things are to be done by regulation and not by the Bill. That is bad government, as I think anyone would recognise, but presumably the Government and particularly the Minister do not recognise that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
I welcome the opportunity to enter this debate on the Family Law Bill which must be one of the most significant pieces of social legislation presented to the Parliament. The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  referred to the introduction of the present Matrimonial Causes Act in 1959- a landmark in social legislation dealing with marriage and divorce. This Bill is intended to reform that legislaton to take into account changing social attitudes. I am sure that all of us in this House and in the Senate have discerned within the community changes in social attitudes which require changes in the existing legislation. But naturally enough when we have a free vote in both places on legislation of this kind we find a variety of expressions by individual members according to their own personal or religious convictions. 
I set about my task in considering what I should do when casting my vote considering that I should blend, so far as I am able, both my own personal views and those of the people whom I represent in this Parliament. In this kind of situation I regard myself very much as the representative of the people. I know at times that that can well place and individual in a dilemma that he cannot easily resolve. Nevertheless it must be resolved. I invited all church groups and other significant social groups in the community to give me their views on this legislation. I must express my praise for the way in which so many of those groups went about investigating the Bill, seeking opinions within their own communities and passing them on to me. For that I am thankful. I have received, as a result, a great many letters, obviously carefully thought out. These are not stereotyped letters that have been duplicated so many of which members find come onto their desks. I think this was an exercise that could well be repeated. I certainly propose to repeat it whenever I am faced with social legislation in particular on which I have not only to consider what my personal vote should be in a free vote situation but also to present my arguments to my own Party before the Party's opinion is formulated. 
I support the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. I do so not because I want to oppose the Bill outright but because I consider the Bill to be inadequate for the purpose of the reform that it is intended to achieve. If that amendment is carried, 1 hope that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will accept the responsibility which would thereby be cast upon him by this House to refer the Bill to the law officers of the Crown for reconsideration and redrafting in the light of the opinions expressed by this House. In that situation the AttorneyGeneral would be acting as the servant of the House rather than the servant of the Government. It may well cast the Attorney-General in a totally different role from that in which he has been cast before but as a free vote has been given to all honourable members, he would be necessarily cast in that role. I hope- indeed, I would expect- that if the amendment is carried the Attorney-General will accept that responsibility and serve the House in that way. 
Certainly 2 things can be said of the Family Law Bill. Firstly, it does not satisfy reformers such as the Divorce Law Reform Association, certain groups within the Women's Electoral Lobby and the other groups which are seeking divorce law reform, even though the Bill does remove fault as the basis for dissolving a marriage and even though it embraces the concept of equal responsibilty by the parties to a marriage in respect of the children of the marriage and also embraces the concept of their own independent individual responsibility for themselves after dissolution. To many of those groups the Bill does not go far enough. On the other hand, the Bill does not satisfy those who want to see reform brought about but who object to the sole ground for dissolution being 12 months separation and those who also see in the maintenance and property settlement provisions inadequate protection for the wife and children of a broken marriage. Somewhere, it appears quite clear from the arguments we have heard in this debate, the Bill must go down the middle. 
I object to the Bill in its present form because as it has come through the process of being the fourth Bill in the line originally started off by the former Attorney-General, the then  Senator Murphy,  it has become a hotchpotch of ideas, philosophies and practical provisions. This hotchpotch centres upon 4 things, namely, the grounds for divorce, the financial arrangements between the parties upon divorce, protection for either party and the children of the former marriage and, fourthly, the administration of the law throughout this nation. In respect of the last mentioned point let me say immediately that I welcomethis was the universal opinion within my electorate- the formation of family courts with marriage counselling and reconciliation assistance being made available through those family courts- a comprehensive administration both of the law and the efforts at marriage counselling and reconciliation. 
There is common ground in the community on a number of things. It seems to me that they are these: Firstly, the need for reform in the law and its administration; secondly, the indignity of divorce by fault as it presently is found should be removed; thirdly, that irretrievable breakdown of marriage should be the test to relieve the parties of the legal ties of marriage; fourthly, that the wife and the children should be protected upon divorce; fifthly, that so far as possible, the financial affairs of the family should be settled once and for all upon divorce; and sixthly, that administration of divorce law should be as efficient and dignified as human hands can make it, and the courts and the protection of the law should be available to all who need it, irrespective of costs. 
Against that background, it ought not be forgotten that the law in this field is a social instrument by which rights of parties during marriage and upon divorce are established. Therefore, when legislation is introduced in the name of social reform, it is proper to ask these questions: What new rights are created? What old rights and responsibilities does it remove or lessen? I find an intolerable inconsistency in many of the provisions of this Bill, as well as an objection to some of the fundamental bases on which the Bill is drawn. For example, the central provision of clause 48 provides for the ground of dissolution of the marriage to be 12 months separation. That is the no-fault provision so often referred to. But then one finds clause 43 endeavouring to stand alongside clause 48, which of course is impossible. Clause 43 states that the Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, have regard to such matters as the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life. When regard is had to the fact that upon establishing simply separation for 12 months, the court has no discretion as to whether to grant a decree dissolving the marriage, the impossibility of clause 48 standing alongside clause 43 becomes abundantly clear. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  referred to clause 48 and the ground of 12 months separation as a legal fiction, and I agree with him. It states that there shall be a decree of dissolution on the ground that the marriage has broken down irretrievably and that that breakdown is established by 12 months separation. I would go further and say that that is both a legal and a social fiction, because anyone with experience in the field of marriage and marriage breakdown can point to innumerable examples where a mere separation does not necessarily indicate, let alone establish, the irretrievable breakdown of a marriage. I think that when we look at the basic concept behind irretrievable breakdown, it really does point up the fiction that 12 months separation establishes that breakdown. 
My learned colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has foreshadowed an amendment which seeks to introduce into clause 48 objective grounds on which to establish irretrievable breakdown. The terms of the amendment are drawn from the English Divorce Reform Act 1969. That Act says that breakdown of marriage is to be the sole ground for divorce, and it goes on to state that the court hearing a petition for divorce shall not hold the marriage to have broken down irretrievably unless the petitioner satisfies the court of one or more of the following facts: That the respondent has committed adultery, and the petitioner finds it intolerable to live with the respondent, that the respondent has behaved in such a way that the petitioner cannot reasonably be expected to live with the respondent, that there has been a continuous period of at least 2 years desertion immediately preceding the presentation of the petition, that the parties to the marriage have lived apart for a continuous period of at least 2 years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition and the respondent consents to a decree being granted and, finally, that the parties to the marriage have lived apart for a continuous period of at least 5 years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition. 
I would think that, if the concept of irretrievable breakdown of marriage is to be introduced into our law, by far the most sensible approach to it is to acknowledge that breakdown of marriage is caused; it just does not happen. The fact that it is caused implies that there is responsibility somewhere. I would not for one minute want to see a legal system which allowed the parties to wrangle over their conduct during marriage in determining whether or not there should be a divorce. Nevertheless, I think that, inevitably within the concept of irretrievable breakdown there must also be contained the concept of responsibility. That is the point which the amendment moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill seeks to draw to the attention of the House. 
There are other inconsistencies in the Bill which I shall mention. The most significant inconsistency I find in the Bill is in the handling of the injunctive provisions. The injunctive provisions of the Bill enable a party to the marriage to be protected in his or her marital relationship. That can mean only that, if one party to the marriage has misbehaved in a way which is intolerable to the other, that other party can go to the court and obtain an injunction calling upon the party misbehaving to desist from doing so. That introduces immediately the concept of fault; that is, misconduct or misbehaviour. I cannot understand then why a wife, for example, who hears of the adultery of her husband and notwithstanding the adultery persists in coming back home, can obtain an injunction from the court to protect her from that intolerable conduct but cannot, even though the court is prepared to grant her such an injunction, go to the court and obtain a divorce if she wishes to do so immediately. 
My colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  talks of brutal conduct. I agree that a wife who suffers brutally at the hands of her husband ought to have the protection of the law available to her immediately. That protection is given by the injunctive provisions of the Bill but denied by the provisions of the Bill establishing the ground for dissolution of marriage. I cannot understand why the proponents of this Bill would grant to a spouse protection in one legal form but not in another legal form. They are then compelling the spouse who has been badly treated to stand off and wait for a period of at least 12 months. Certainly she will be able to obtain the protection of the law as to maintenance, but that may not be enough in the particular circumstances of the case. The point of raising this matter is that however hard one may try to remove what is so commonly called fault, one cannot. We all know that marriages break down and pass through periods of hardship and difficulty. The law serves no purpose if one seeks to deny what ought to be acknowledged in one part of the legislation but then recognises it in another part of the legislation. 
This Bill contains many more provisions than those to which I have referred. I hope that at the Committee stage- if we get to that point- I can refer to and point out other inconsistencies in the legislation. I think it is proper to say that all members of this House and the Senate have approached this piece of legislation with a great deal of goodwill. It has been a salutary lesson for the Parliament, in the light of events of recent days, that we as individual members of Parliament can approach a matter of such importance to Australia in that spirit of goodwill and with a sense of seriousness and obligation to the community. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 12.57 to 2.15 p.m. 
So the first point I would put to you,  Mr Speaker,  is that the amendment moved by the Minister should not be regarded as requiring the withdrawal of a Bill for any period but rather as enabling it to go straight into Committee for examination. However, if your ruling on that point confirms the ruling of your predecessor that the Bill would have to be withdrawn and redrafted and resubmitted by a Minister, I would ask what is your view concerning the contingent notice of motion that has been moved by the Minister and read by the  Clerk  earlier this morning, namely, that so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a Minister moving that the second reading of the Family Law Bill 1974 be made an order for a later hour this day'. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Is it a fact that there is only one oil exploration well being drilled in Australia at the present time, that being off-shore South Australia? Does the Minister consider that that is a serious situation when Australia is facing a decline in production from its own fields by the early 1980s? In this serious and urgent situation, how does the Government intend to stimulate oil drilling throughout Australia? 
-In this grievance debate made available to private members to raise matters of concern facing the public I wish to raise a matter concerning patients of chiropractors in Western Australia because I believe that they are being unfairly discriminated against by federal law. I have brought it forward because of the number of cases which have come through my electorate office in which persons who have received chiropractic treatment without reference to a chiropractor by medical practitioners have been necessarily refused reimbursement of the fees which they personally have had to incur for an injury which they have suffered in their work. This applies in the case where an employee of the Commonwealth Government is injured and needs chiropractic treatment. 
In raising this matter I carry no brief for the chiropractors but I speak for their patients in Western Australia. As I have said, they are being unfairly discriminated against by federal law. I particularly refer to the workers compensation legislation or, to give it its full title, the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act 1971-73. Under the provisions of that Act fees incurred for chiropractic treatment are recoverable only if the treatment is given at the direction of a legally qualified medical practitioner. The injustice is worked in Western Australia because the law of that State, the Chiropractic Act of 1964 provides for the registration of chiropractors. Therefore it is not necessary in Western Australia for a patient to be referred to a chiropractor before the chiropractor can give the treatment that is necessary. For example, 2 persons are injured in the same accident. One is a State government employee or maybe an employee of a private employer and the other is an employee of the Commonwealth Government. Both go to a chiropractor. Neither is referred by a legally qualified medical practitioner. Both are cured of the injury. The State Government or private employee under Western Australian workers compensation law is fully reimbursed for the chiropractic fees incurred. The Commonwealth employee, however, receives no reimbursement whatsoever. I have had a number of cases of non-reimbursement and I have sought to have some sympathetic discretion exercised in favour of Commonwealth employees, but such is the rigidity of the Federal law to which I have referred that there is not discretion given to the Tribunal established under that Act or to the Minister responsible for administering it. So the situation exists that a Commonwealth employee simply cannot be reimbursed for fees he has incurred. 
I have mentioned that in Western Australia chiropractors are registered. Registration is under an Act which was introduced after an exhaustive study of the practice of chiropractic in Western Australia. It was decided to establish a board comprising a legal practitioner, 2 chiropractors in practice in Western Australia and 2 persons nominated by the Minister. That board deals most exhaustively with a variety of matters affecting chiropractic practice in Western Australia, including the course of study which must be undertaken by chiropractors, the examinations that they must take, the professional and ethical standards of chiropractors in Western Australia and various other matters relevant to the practice of this profession. Before a chiropractor can practise in Western Australia, before a person can call himself a chiropractor, he must be registered under this State legislation. So we have then a complete system of regulation of the practice of chiropractic in Western Australia which is as effective in its own way as the regulation of medical practice and other professions such as the legal profession. I do not know of any public or private complaints about this system of registration of chiropractors. Indeed, it has appeared to serve the admirable social purpose of controlling an otherwise uncontrolled profession in a very sensitive field of therapeutic treatment for injury or harm. The practice of chiropractic covers a limited field, defined by the Western Australian law in these terms:  'Chiropractic' means a system of palpating and adjusting the articulations of the human spinal column by hand only for the purpose of determining and correcting without the use of drugs or operative surgery interference with normal nerve transmission and expression. 
So it is a limited field of what one might call medical treatment. The number of persons in Western Australia who have received satisfactory treatment at the hands of chiropractors must be legion, and all those persons who have referred this matter to me have been thoroughly satisfied with the treatment that they have received. They wonder then why, as employees of the Commonwealth Government, they cannot receive full reimbursement for the fees they have incurred. For example, I notice that under the Commonwealth law physiotherapists and masseurs who are registered under the law of a State or Territory are recognised because the Act provides that a person who receives therapeutic treatment from such a physiotherapist or masseur can have his costs reimbursed. 
All that I am asking for, then, is that chiropractors in Western Australia registered under the Western Australian Chiropractic Act of 1 964 be placed in the same position as physiotherapists and masseurs. It is not only in this area of workers' compensation that this discrimination against Western Australia appears but also under social services benefits legislation in relation to fees payable to a chiropractor and fees payable to a chiropractor under the repatriation services legislation. One very practical example of discrimination is that fees payable to medical practitioners are available for tax deduction but those payable to registered chiropractors in Western Australia are not tax deductible. 
There is a wide range of Federal law which clearly discriminates against persons in Western Australia who receive chiropractic treatment. I know that a committee has been instituted by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  to inquire into chiropractic, osteopathy and naturopathy, intended to be a scientific evaluation of chiropractic, osteopathy and naturopathy, and to report to the Minister for Health on the desirability of registering practitioners and, if so, under what conditions. I do not know whether it is the Minister's thought that there should be a Commonwealth register of chiropractors, but of course that is simply not necessary. In the same way as legal practitioners and medical practitioners are qualified and registered under State law, so the same practice can be adopted throughout Australia as has already been adopted for the registration of chiropractors in Western Australia. 
I began by saying that I carry no brief for chiropractors, but I do carry a brief for the people of Western Australia and I believe that in this particular instance the people there are discriminated against by the Federal law to which I have referred. I should hope that the Minister in charge of that legislation and of other fields that I have referred to will have a look at this matter to see that that discrimination is ended as quickly as possible. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask my question of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I mention by way of short preface that I bear in mind that the Minister was the chief architect of the wage indexation case; so I thought he might be able to help this 
House understand that decision better. Does the decision mean that unions have to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to obtain indexation and that they must abide by the conditions laid down by the Commission in order to get it? If it does mean that, is it not a great opportunity for the Government to support the decision to the hilt and thereby restore the authority and standing of the Commission in the area of wage determination? If that be so, will the Government take steps to give the Commission that kind of support? 
I wish to give my support to the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  because I feel that it will enable parties whose marriage has broken down to use the law in the way which is best suited to their own particular circumstances. It introduces an element of fairness and reasonableness into this difficult area of human affairs. We ought not to forget that what the Family Law Act will do, as the Matrimonial Causes Act which the Bill intends to replace already does, is establish the legal rights of parties to a marriage upon the dissolution of that marriage. The law must also establish the grounds upon which those new legal rights are to be created. It comes down very largely to a matter of judgment in the conduct of human affairs as to whether the breakdown of a marriage is to be shown by the objective test of 12 months separation or by some other ground. 
One thing that we have found as a common thread running throughout this whole debate is that society, as it is reflected in this House and as it is outside this House, believes that divorce today should be based upon the breakdown of the marriage. So it does become a judgment of what the law should recognise as evidence of that breakdown. I do not think that 12 months separation alone can be said in all circumstances to amount to proof of irretrievable breakdown of marriage; nor do I think that in all circumstances that would be fair to the parties whose marriage has broken down. I think particularly of the innocent husband or wife who, at the whim of the other spouse, finds that the marriage is put at an end and, at the whim of that other spouse, the innocent party's legal rights can be broken. It is said that that person's rights are protected by other provisions of the Act. Nevertheless we must turn all the time to this central provision. 
What I feel has happened amongst the protagonists for the provision for 12 months separation is that in their pursuit of the admirable goals of simplicity and cheapness of removing wrangling and legal complexity from divorce they have denied to persons what ought to be regarded as some of their fundamental personal rights. They have denied also the reality of life- that marriage breakdown is brought about by the behaviour of the parties to the marriage. The law must recognise the realities of life. It cannot hide itself away in language which says that a marriage shall be dissolved if, and only if, there has been an irretrievable breakdown of the marriage and that can be established if, and only if, there has been a 12 months separation. That is, as has been pointed out in the second reading debate, a legal and social fiction. 
Many of the protagonists for a 12 months separation period have turned to the injunction provisions. They have said that the provisions give to an innocent party all the protection required. If, as the injunction provisions say, that that is available for the personal protection of a party to the marriage or for the protection of the marital relationship, then I say to those persons: 'Why ought not the law give to the innocent party the ultimate protection which the law can give? That is, the dissolution of the marriage when the party who is hurt wants it'. I cannot think of anything more illiberal than to deny to that innocent person the right to go to law to dissolve the marriage and to re-establish his or her legal rights under the provisions of the law. We could go into a classification of the different kinds of conduct which can cause matrimonial harm and which ought to be protected by injunction. But whatever that classification might be, we can apply it equally to conduct which ought to allow a party to go before the court and obtain a dissolution of the marriage. The amendment which is proposed speaks in terms of behaviour of the parties which has in fact resulted in the irretrievable breakdown of the marriage. So it appears to me that fairness and justice in divorce law ought to give to all parties to the marriage the right to go to the court when it can be shown as a fact that the marriage has broken down. 
I have given notice of an amendment in my name to clause 72 of the Bill to bring into effect what the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has just spoken about because I perceived in the clause as drawn the clear shifting of emphasis and onus from the existing law.The present law declares that any party to a marriage has a positive right to claim maintenance, leaving it then to the court to work out as between the parties and according to the circumstances that attach to them whether it is proper to give maintenance to one of the parties. The Bill proposes to change that so as to provide that a party to a marriage shall be liable to pay maintenance if, and only if, the other party is unable to support herself or himself adequately. What that does is to presuppose that there is an obligation or a burden upon one spouse to support herself or himself in the case of the dissolution of that marriage. That, of course, immediately raises or questions the position of a woman who has not worked for many years during marriage, who has lost old skills and must retrain herself if she is to be able to support herself. I speak of the woman because it is a rare situation where the innocent husband needs to be supported by the wife. 
If clause 72 is agreed to in its present form we will have a situation in which the husband will be able to say to the innocent wife: 'Well, I am only liable to support you if you are unable to support yourself. You ought to go out and support yourself.' That clearly shifts within society the benefit which has been given heretofore to a wife. It renders inflexible the concept upon which the courts must proceed in determining maintenance. I do not believe that the law should be inflexible in this area. We should not freeze the law at one moment of time but leave the courts through the social influence of the day to ebb and flow with the social influence as it applies to the particular parties. 
What the proposers of this law are seeking to do here is to have Parliament adopt really an intransigent view of what the social attitudes should be whenever from here on the courts have to determine a question of maintenance. I believe that that arises because of the so-called equality of the sexes. This is where the concept arises that a wife must be put on an equal basis with a husband. She must be burdened with the obligation of supporting herself rather than looking to her husband who has been the breadwinner with the obligation within our society to maintain her and their children. 
Although it might be said that clause 75 allows to the court the widest discretion to take into account the particular circumstances of a case and so give justice as between the parties, I fear that with clause 72 being the primary clause with respect to maintenance the courts will be guided by the concept or the philosophy that they find explicit in that clause. So when the courts come to apply the considerations enumerated in clause 75 they will do so in the light of that primary concept. I believe that in order to give adequate protection to all parties to the marriage in this area the law should assert a positive right to maintenance, then giving to the court the discretion which is contained in clause 75 to apply the considerations which are there set out to the particular circumstances of the case, and thereby give full effect to the social influences of the day, whatever they may be. Therefore I move the amendment in my name to clause 72. 
-With respect to clause 75 there are a number of amendments standing in my name. I shall refer to some of the more important of those amendments. In the first amendment which involves the introductory words of the clause it is intended to remove the mandatory nature of the opening words so as to allow the court a discretion in the matters which it may take into account when determining maintenance. This is done by omitting the word 'shall ' and substituting the word 'may', and by deleting the word 'only'. That will provide that the court in exercising jurisdiction in respect of maintenance may take into account the matters referred to in the following sub-clause. Those matters are wide enough in their terms, together with the last consideration which is found in paragraph (n) and which states:  any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion of the court, the justice of the case requires to be taken into acount. 
That is wide enough to accommodate all circumstances surrounding the breakdown of the marriage and it requires, in a particular instance, the award of maintenance to one of the parties. That, in much the same way as I pointed out in relation to clause 72, renders the law flexible rather than inflexible and provides to the court the discretion which is needed to determine the case fairly among the variety of situation which come before the court. That is the pattern of most of the amendments which I shall move in due course. I shall refer to others now. For example, in relation to paragraph (e) in sub-clause (2) I seek to make it clear and explicit that the court shall have regard to the relevant responsibility of either party to support any other person. That is relevant in the sense of being relevant to the fact that there has been a dissolution of marriage. 
In paragraph (f) the existing language is in terms of 'the eligibility of either party for a pension' which the court can take into account. It seems to me that the court should have regard not so much to the eligibility of either party to a pension, allowance or benefit, but the actual receipt of that pension, allowance or benefit. Furthermore, it should be a pension, allowance or benefit received under the law of Australia or of a State or Territory. It appears to me that that would give- if I may put it this way- much better justice to the case than the court merely having regard to the eligibility of a person to receive such a pension when that person may, for some reason, not actually receive it. There is a small amendment to paragraph (h) but, nevertheless, I think it is necessary. Presently, that subparagraph provides that the court may take into account:  the extent to which the payment of maintenance to the party whose maintenance is under consideration would increase the earning capacity of that party . . . 
The amendment I propose is to provide for the situation where it must actually increase the earning capacity of that party. Again one looks at the situation where the event is actually occurring and the increase in earning capacity has occurred. Finally, I refer to paragraph ( 1 ). By my amendment it is intended to remove the word financial'. That appears in the context of the court being enabled to take into account maintenance. If the party whose maintenance is under consideration is cohabiting with another person the court takes into account the financial circumstances relating to the cohabitation. To me that appears to be too limiting in its terms, so I move amendment No. 103 standing in my name. 
-Amendment No. 107 now becomes redundant in view of the failure of the 2 earlier amendments. 
Yes. 
I move amendment No. 109, circulated in my name. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move amendment No. Ill, circulated in my name. 
Amendment negatived. 
-I move amendment No. 1 1 5 standing in my name. 
Amendment negatived. 
The CHATRMAN- Is leave granted for the honourable member for Stirling to move amendment No. 1 16 standing in his name? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 76. 
Subject to sub-sections (3) and (4)- 
an order shall not be made for the maintenance of a child who has attained the age of 1 8 years; and 
an order for the maintenance of a child ceases to be in force when the child attains the age of 1 8 years. 
Circulated amendment. (120)  (Mr Enderby)-In  sub-clause (2), omit 'sub-sections (3) and (4)', substitute 'sub-section (3)'. 
-Clause 26 is an extraordinary provision to be found in legislation of this kind which is intended to achieve a measure of administrative justice for citizens whose interests are affected by decisions of pubUc servants of the Commonwealth of Australia. It is more so in the context of legislation which was introduced by the Government with a fanfare of publicity, heralding a great move forward in the field of administrative justice by the establishment of this Tribunal. As the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has pointed out, the Tribunal has no jurisdiction at the present time. The Bill gives the Tribunal no teeth with which to deal with administrative decisions on behalf of citizens, let along anything to bite upon. Can honourable members imagine a court of law with litigants standing, maybe pounding, at the door, and a judge and a tipstaff sitting inside the court but powerless to act? That is what we have here. I put it to the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  that really such a proposition is beyond legal credulity. It does not make common sense to the ordinary citizen and those people who wish to challenge the decisions of public servants who are affecting their personal interests. 
I consider that the range of administrative decisions capable of review should be expressed in the legislation itself. It should not be left to the whim of a public servant or a Minister to decide which administrative decisions are to be reviewed. It is wrong to leave to the person who makes a decision affecting the interests of a citizen, the determination of whether the decision of the public servant should be subject to reviewshould be subject to challenge. With all the goodwill in the world, the tendency, if not the inclination of the public servant concerned, will be to keep his decision free from challenge. For the benefit of the Committee, I should Uke to quote a passage from a book which I was very interested to read some years ago on this question of administrative justice. The book is written by Professor H. W. R. Wade, an academic who is well known for his study of this whole field of administrative law. The professor said at page 129 of his book: 
Administrative justice is the friend, not the enemy, of good administration. No class of people stands to benefit more in the long run from just administration than the administrators themselves, because the state is permeated from top to bottom with the truth that government depends upon the approval of the governed. Fair play in administration will enlist the citizen's sympathies and will enormously reduce the friction with which the machinery of government works. All good administrators should take care that the machinery is properly tended and that the lubricant of justice is supplied in the right quantity at the right points. 
I should like the Attorney-General and those administrators who are responsible to him and who must act upon this legislation to take heed of those words because I feel sure that they will gain great advantage if they were to be open in their administration of Government decisions and allow an open review of all their decisions. Australia. like the United Kingdom and the United States of America, has been brought up with a history of obedience and respect for the rule of the law, and a healthy dislike of arbitrary power. But legislation such as this which seeks to establish a structure for achieving administrative justice by putting a brake on arbitrary power, is itself subject to arbitrary power. As I have said, the person whose decision ought to be reviewed has the uncontrolled power to decide whether or not it shall be reviewed. That, I would have thought, it the ultimate of arbitrary power. I would have thought also that the intention behind this legislation is to put a brake upon the arbitrary power of that kind. Such a situation is the very denial of administrative justice. 
I think it really is carping on the part of the Attorney-General to criticise the Opposition when it seeks to give to the Tribunal jurisdiction to act on behalf of citizens, rather than to adopt the mantle of the benevolent Minister or the benevolent public servant. We have all heard that said so often before. We would have expected of the Attorney-General in view of what he has said publicly and in this Parliament a Tribunal created with jurisdiction. For my pan, I would have preferred that this legislation should give to citizens affected by administrative decisions, a general right to have those decisions reviewed by a properly constituted Tribunal. The people would then know with certainty what their legal rights are. One of the hallmarks of good law is certainty in the law. What the Opposition is seeking to achieve by the amendment put forward, is a large step towards administrative justice by achieving certainty, at least at this moment, by giving to the Tribunal a jurisdiction which is clear, which is set out in the schedule and which is not subject to a desision at some later time by the public servants whose decisions ought to be capable of being reviewed. 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: What happened between question time on Tuesday 20 May when the Prime Minister told the Leader of the Opposition that the $2 billion loan was 'for matters related to energy' and 5.30 p.m. that day which caused the Executive Council to revoke the authority for that loan? 
-On this adjournment debate I wish to refer to 2 petitions which I have received from many public spirited people of Perth, a great number of whom are within my own electorate. These petitions concern 2 matters which have been before this House, and are matters of considerable discussion, as a result of programs instituted by the present Labor Government. Those 2 matters are the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and Medibank. 
It may well be that members of the Government are being persuaded by their own propaganda that these measures are acceptable to the Australian people. But let me demonstrate by the petitions that I have here in front of me, and by those many other petitions which have been presented to this House and to the Senate, that the people do not accept these 2 programs introduced by the Labor Government. The first petition that I have comes as a protest from the people, by the people, against this Government in relation to the Austalian Government Insurance Corporation. This protest was spontaneous. It was not engineered, nor was it coerced by anybody. It was a spontaneous protest by the people of Australia, right across Australia. Some enterprising people from the electorate of Stirling presented this petition to me. With the help of the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  I will show the House what I mean by that statement. The petition is 9 feet long, as I now demonstrate, and contains some 300 signatures from people who wish to protest against the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Thus these people demonstrably have registered their protest. 
Let me quote some of the things that are said in this petition. For instance, the petition says: 
We are of the opinion that this is an invasion of the insurance industry and would amount to unfair competition. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I do not intend to transgress your ruling. I do intend to present this petition to the House in the normal way, but I thought that the enterprise of these people of Perth should be shown to the House so that their protest may be dramatically known to the House. Let me say finally that what these petitioners object to, among other things, is expressed as follows: 
We think that the Government should stick to the role of umpire in these fields and not attempt to take part in the game. 
That is a very pertinent observation. It is one which the present Labor Government could well take account of. Instead of endeavouring to find an alternative to nationalisation through the means of public enterprise, let the Government set the rules of the game for private enterprise to take part. The Government can then watch over the game, see that it is fairly played, and see that it is played to the benefit of the people of Australia. If private enterprise is given the chance, that is what it will do. 
Let me pass on to the other petition which I have here tonight and which in due course I shall be presenting to the Parliament. I have this bundle of petitions 2Vi to 3Vi inches thick registering a protest against Medibank and containing some 5 341 signatures. Those signatures were collected by 5 people. The petition resulted from a protest meeting at Mount Lawley within my electorate on 28 April 1975 which was attended by some 500 public spirited people who wanted to show to this Government their objection to Medibank. These people were not persuaded by the mass of propaganda by which Government members have been persuaded that Medibank is good for the Australian people. This petition for which these 5 people collected 5 000 signatures in barely two weeks to three weeks has been given to me to present to this Parliament. Let me read what the petitioners say: 
The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank should not be forced upon an unwilling Australian people. 
That taxpayers' money should not be used to mount an unprecedented propaganda campaign to sell Medibank to the people. 
That any system of comprehensive health care in Australia should not be based upon salaried general practitioner or specialist services or allocated hospital staff as proposed by Medibank but upon the principle of freedom of choice of doctor at the surgery and in the hospital. 
The private hospitals should be supported and maintained as a viable, independent and necessary part of national hospital service. 
The third paragraph that I have read out is probably the most important of all. It is one aspect which the Medibank propaganda glosses over. It is one point which is not spelt out to the people of 
Australia by this Government. By the introduction of Medibank, the Government does intend to introduce a system of health care in Australia which is based upon salaried general practitioner and specialist services. I emphasise those words. 
The Labor Government's Medibank health scheme is to be based upon allocated hospital staff. We have recently had admissions by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  that this is to be the case. It must be the case with regard to the provision of public standard beds. What members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party believe is that health care in Australia should be firmly based upon the principle of freedom of choice of doctor, at the surgery and in the hospital - 
But,  Mr Speaker,  there is no legislation, as I understand it, relating to - Medibank now before the House. 
Then, let me simply put my argument on this basis: The effort of these 5 people, who were able to find people at shopping centres and street corners ready to condemn the Medibank scheme by placing their signature upon these plainly worded petitions, has made abundantly clear that the Government's spending of $500,000 of taxpayers' funds trying to sell Medibank to the people has not been successful. One wonders how long this Government will continue to persuade itself by its own propaganda that its proposals are for the benefit of the people of Australia. It certainly has not woken up to that fact yet, and no doubt it will not wake up to that fact until the next election. I am quite sure that at that time the people will firmly, clearly and unequivocally then tell the Government that what it is doing with taxpayers ' money by way of Medibank and the Australian Government Insurance Corporation is not what the people of Australia want. They do not want this kind of socialism intruded into their lives. But if the Government introduces, for example, a Medibank scheme based on freedom of choice of doctor at the surgery and in the hospital, then it might be able to obtain the support of the people of Australia. That is the kind of policy which the Opposition Parties have presented to the people already and will be presenting to the people at the next election, and it is that kind of policy based upon principle which will be acceptable to the people. 
-I enter this grievance debate because I am concerned about the welfare of the people of Australia and particularly about the welfare of the people of my electorate of Stirling. The Australian economy is facing one of the most critical times in the history of this nation. It goes without saying that all available evidence demonstrates that fact. There is no light at the end of the tunnel for the people during the life of the present Government. I am sure that, however long or short that life will be, the next Budget will be a harsh one. It will be the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as much as anyone who will be the cause of that Budget being a harsh Budget. No doubt, as has been the pattern in the past, the Prime Minister will try to make other Ministers the scapegoat but the people of Australia will see, as I am sure they are beginning to understand now, that it is the Prime Minister himself who is the real cause of the economic situation which Australia faces. 
First, we know how the present Minister for Overseas Trade, the former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  was made the scapegoat of the Prime Minister's economic policies. We wonder whether the next scapegoat will be the present Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The treatment which the Prime Minister has meted out to the Acting Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  over the last few days during question time has not been lost on honourable members of this House. You will have noted,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  how on economic questions directed to the Prime Minister he has immediately passed them over to the Acting Treasurer. You will also have noticed how today the Acting Treasurer made it quite clear, in answer to a question from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  about the $2 billion funny money loan of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  that he, the Acting Treasurer, would not accept responsibility for what has gone on. It is quite obvious that when the truth comes out there will be scandal within the House. 
It is not without significance that we have seen in this morning's Press talk of a move by a group of Government back benchers for a spill of ministerial positions within the Australian Labor Party. It is not without significance also that the Press reports that the Prime Minister appears to give tacit consent to that spill. One might wonder whether it is something more than tacit consentwhether it is actual connivance in what is to happen. As I have said, I fear for the welfare of the people of my electorate of Stirling because I fear that the coming Budget will be a harsh one. The Prime Minister has said consistently that he will not cut back expenditure on any of his 1972 or 1974 election campaign social programs. That, in economic terms and as plainly as I can put it, can only mean the printing of more money and a higher Budget deficit than the present anticipated deficit of $2.3 billion- a record in Australia by any standards. Alternatively to a deficit of that kind it could mean increasing company and personal tax. There is a further alternative, and that is letting inflation run even higher than it is at the present time- about 20 per cent- in order to bring more tax revenue into the Government. By any standard, by any economic judgment, by any application of common sense, a Budget adopting any of those alternatives is economic nonsense. To avoid economic ruin for this country, the Prime Minister and the Treasurer would have to do a complete turnabout in their economic thinking. But I really wonder whether we are likely to see that. Up to now we have seen no evidence that the Prime Minister understands the economy, let alone that he is prepared to do anything about it. 
It is abundantly clear that the key to the forthcoming Budget is a cut in Government expenditure. If there is to be no cut in Government expenditure, then, by what we know of the Government's spending programs in the past and what they are likely to be in the future, this country is facing a budgetary deficit not of the order of $2,000m but of the order of $4,000m. I do not think that any Australian will accept a Budget of that kind, but it is an example of the lack of understanding by the present Government of the sensibilities and the common sense of the Australian people that that is what it is likely to do- to present the people with a budgetary deficit of somewhere between $2,000mand$4,000m. 
The complement of the key to the Budget- a cut in Government expenditure- must be at the same time support for private business and support for private investment. Whatever has been said by the Prime Minister- those soft sounding words that he is so adept at using when he is speaking to business communities- there is no evidence shown by action that the Government is prepared to support private investment. We can look simply at the record of the Prime Minister in this field. I take some of the statements that he has made concerning cuts in Government expenditure. Firstly at the 1974 Premiers Conference the Prime Minister said this: 
As part of the battle to contain inflation we will be following a policy of restraint in our own spending. 
Can the Government give any examples of cuts in its own spending since the Prime Minister made that statement at the 1974 Premiers Conference? Of course not. There are no such examples. At the same time, the former Treasurer said something the same: 
The Government acknowledges that public expenditure must be restrained. 
Coming from the former Treasurer, we can see and test the bona fides of the Prime Minister when we recognise that the former Treasurer was shifted fairly quickly to another post. That was the commitment the former Treasurer had, but obviously the Prime Minister had no commitment to his own words. 
More recently, until 28 January this year the Prime Minister had sought to accuse the Opposition of economic vandalism when it suggested that there ought to be cuts in Government expenditure. That is a strange statement, coming from the Prime Minister, when one has regard to what he said at the Premiers Conference. Within a few days the Prime Minister let it out to the Press that it ought to be saying that he was going to be instrumental in slashing Government expenditure. So we saw in the Press headlines such as: 
The Federal Government will cut the growth rate of its spending.  and: 
The Federal Government last night announced a tough clamp down on further increases in its spending. 
Then, faced with rapidly rising unemployment, the Government had to get out of that in some way. Having said that it was going to slash expenditure, faced with unemployment it then thought that the appropriate thing to do was to tell the Press that it ought to be saying that Labor would slash spending but only job projects would escape the cuts. Of course, that sounds all very nice. But then, at a Press conference early this year, when asked whether he could give the Press some idea of the amount of money involved in the proposed expenditure cuts, the Prime Minister's answer was a flat 'No '. 
When one is faced with public statements of that kind by the Prime Minister, how much credence can be given to them by the people- by the people in Stirling whom I represent- when they know by any standard of everyday housekeeping in their own homes that if they are spending too much money they have to cut back expenditure. When the housekeeping that is being done is the housekeeping of the nation and the Prime Minister makes statements of the kind that I have expressed, what credence can be given to his competence as a good housekeeper for the nation? Absolutely none. It is demonstrably clear- the people know this from the statements of the Prime Minister, measured against his inactionthat he is not a housekeeper for their money. 
-Far from this issue which is raised as a matter of public importance being unimportant, it is a matter of supreme importance not only to Japan but also to the Parliament and the people of Australia. For the first time for many a day we have begun to hear the thoughts of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on the future of trade relationships with Japan. It makes it abundantly clear that what the Opposition needs to do is to raise issues in this House as matters of public importance so that the Japanese may find out what is the real attitude of the honourable gentleman and the Australian people may know what he is doing. We have had few statements from this Minister in the past, but many Dorothy Dix questions have been addressed to him. This is a technique which ought to be deplored because it denies to the Opposition an opportunity to debate the policies of the Government in this vital field. 
We have learnt one thing from what the honourable gentleman has said and that is that we have, at least, a prophet in our own time. To quote his own words, he knows what the future holds. I recall that early in 1973 the honourable gentleman informed the House that there were 3 things of which he was certain: Life, death, and that the value of the United States dollar would go down. 
We have seen the effect of what the Government has done with its interference in the trade in iron ore and in coal, in denying to the Japanese the opportunity to import Australian natural gas and in its interference with the making of contracts for the sale of uranium. The Minister is very fond of declaiming to the people of Australia that he and the Labor Government will honour its contracts. What we want from the Government is not so much the honouring of contracts but contracts which can be honoured. This is what has not come from the Minister. When the Prime Minister and the Minister speak of obtaining fair prices for Australian resources, what they really mean is that they will use the export control powers of the Government to obtain the prices for our resources that the Government thinks ought to be obtained. That is economic blackmail. It takes no account of world patterns of trade, but seeks to apply a blanket rule to all international dealings. In the hands of the Minister this kind of economic blackmail is a blunt instrument which can only damage the sensibilities of our relationships with our great trading partners such as Japan. When the Minister speaks of imposing an excise on the export price of coal, as he is now doing, in essence that is no more than what the OPEC countries are doing in imposing a posted price for the export of crude oil, and that must have the effect of increasing the price of coal to Japan. In effect, it is a tax on the Japanese industrial consumers of our coal and we know that that is nothing more than international economic blackmail. I am glad to say that that is not the policy of the Opposition and it will not be our policy when we are in goverment. 
I should like to remind the House of something the Minister said about Japan in a debate in this House on 23 September 1970. He said then, as he has said recently: 
An old saying is that one never keeps a cow when one can get milk by other means. Having tried aggression and failed, Japan now tries the alternative of economic penetration. 
That means economic aggression, and that is this Minister's attitude on Japan- that it will indulge in economic aggression. The Minister went on to say:  ... the relationship between us which at the present time is a mutually profitable one can be, in the long term, a dangerous one in which Japan could develop into a big brother and adopt the big brother complex and lean rather heavily on us. 
He continued later: 
But in the long term, aggression is a distinct possibility and in terms of physical aggression Japan is possibly the only enemy in sight. 
-The Minister for Minerals and Energy. It must be alarming to the people of Australia, as well as to the Government of Japan, to know that the Minister in charge of minerals in Australia upon which Japan is so dependent looks on Japan as an actual economic aggressor and a potential physical aggressor. So far as I can see in trying to understand this prophet in our time, that kind of attitude is derived either from a pathological fear of Japan or from a distorted view of history. Neither attitude has any foundation in fact in any assessment of future relationships between Australia and Japan. So when we look at the actions of this Minister in relation to the pricing of iron ore exports, of coal exports, in the denial of vital energy sources such as natural gas and in inhibiting the export of uranium to Japan, we wonder whether in the pursuit of the attitude expressed by him in 1 970 he is seeking to inhibit seriously Japan's ability to trade with the world. The Opposition's shadow minister for trade and resources has referred to the difficulties which uranium explorers have had in reaching agreement with the Government and in fulfilling their uranium contracts with Japan. We wonder also what has happened to the statement of joint co-operation on investigating technology and uranium enrichment. We know that the establishment of nuclear power stations in Japan is vital to Japan's energy sources in the 1980s and beyond. We know that Japan is looking to Australia as a source of uranium. We know it would like to look to Australia as a source of enriched uranium, but we hear nothing from this Minister as to the progress of this exercise in cooperation between the 2 countries. Rather, the Minister now speaks proudly of Australia's achievement in uranium enrichment technology. It must make honourable members wonder, it must make the -industry wonder and it must make Japan wonder what will be the future of co-operation between the 2 countries in the investigation of enrichment technology. 
The Minister speaks also of co-operation between Japan and Australia in coal hydrogenation. But then, in the next breath, he speaks of Australia going it alone and achieving a great national potential. Where is the element of cooperation he so often speaks about? He says one thing today, another thing tomorrow. This is the pattern right throughout this Minister's ministry and throughout the relationships between Australia and Japan in this vital area of energy resources. 
Does the Prime Minister feel that his Government's reluctance to take any positive steps to assist in Timor is consistent with his own and his Government's proclaimed concern for humanitarian causes and the welfare of the developing world? As a self-styled world statesman, is this not a time for initiatives and leadership, rather than a time to be seeking to hide behind cliches and unreality? 
I direct my question to the Acting Treasurer. What will be the price of petrol at the bowser as a result of the $2 a barrel levy on indigenous crude oil, and from when will that increased price operate? 
I want to introduce to this Parliament the policies of Louis Kelso, who is an American economist and philosopher. He will be in Australia in September and October and I hope that all Australians will pay very close attention to what he says.  His  writings and his thoughts have had tremendous impact in the United States of America. Much of what he has been saying for many years is now being adopted in legislation in the United States Congress.  Senator Russell  Long, the  Chairman  of the Senate Finance Committee, has taken Louis Kelso's economic philosophy into Congress and is pursuing it there. In Canada Winnett Boyd has for many years adopted the economic philosophy of Louis Kelso. He has written a book, which I hope that all members of Parliament will read, called  The National Dilemma and the Way Out.  In particular I hope that all Liberals will read it because it gives the complete answer to the socialist economic policies of the present Government and all Labor parties. 
The impact of this philosophy in political terms can be judged from the experience of Winnett Boyd in Canada when in 1972 he stood as a Conservative Party candidate and increased the vote of the Conservative Party in the constituency from 15 458 to 37 181- reducing the Liberal majority of the Government of Pierre Trudeau by approximately 20 000 votes to only 1847. Obviously the people of Canada of his particular constituency felt the impact of what is proposed in the philosophy of Louis Kelso. Shortly put, the Kelso plan is for a second income for wage earners so that people do not have to rely simply on their wages. They can rely on an income from sharing the ownership of the productive assets of the country, and in particular by having a share in the capital of the company which employs them. As has been said by  President  de Gaulle, 'to stick to wages alone is to maintain a permanent class struggle', whereas if the philosophies of Louis Kelso were adopted we could avoid that result by giving to the men and women who work in Australia the opportunity to have an income apart from the wages they earn. 
What it does is to provide what I would like to term worker participation in wealth. We hear so much today about worker participation. We hear it from the Australian Labor Party, from the unions and from the socialists. I think that they are so far behind the times it does not matter. What we ought to be talking about in Australia and what we ought to be looking to do in Australia is to provide a system of worker participation in wealth. The Kelso plan has been termed as turning the working class into capitalists, and that is certainly what it can do. In postwar years one of the great achievements of government in Australia has been to distribute wealth through a much wider ownership of housing- of private property. What I think we all need to do in Australia today is to extend the idea of making all Australians little capitalists by owning their own homes beyond that to the kind of plan that Louis Kelso proposes. What we would then have would be a true partnership between labour and capital. We would avoid the conflict of class hatred. We would avoid the conflict which seems to be inevitable in so much of the union attitudes of today where all that they are doing is seeking to get more and more for the work force by way of wages. 
The Louis Kelso plan is the antithesis of the socialist idea of redistributing income. Of course, what the people of Australia need to realise is that when the Treasurer speaks of redistributing income through taxation, what he is doing is taking income earned by people away from them and giving it to someone else according to the Treasurer's idea of where it ought to go. It is not the old idea of robbing the rich capitalist of his wealth- that is, the property that he owns- and distributing some of it amongst the people; the redistribution principle of the socialists is to take the income that is earned by people and distribute it to others. There are 2 modern fallacies in this redistribution principle. The first is that it is no longer the rich who suffer according to this principle, but every working man and woman in Australia through the impact of taxation. In other words, taxation robs the people of their hard-earned income. The socialists force the people to work more and more for less and less. So the men and women who work see that the harder they work the more the Government takes out of" their pay packet. The Kelso plan is precisely the reverse. 
The other modern fallacy of the socialists is that they concentrate ownership and control of the nation's income and wealth in the hands of government- the greatest monopoly of all kinds. The Kelso plan is totally anti-monopolistic. What the modern socialist theory does is to make each one of us ever more dependent on public welfare handed out by the government. The Kelso plan is completely the reverse because it enables individuals to rely on private welfare; that is, welfare which they can provide for themselves during their working life, and after that in retirement, from the second income they may earn by sharing the ownership of the productive enterprises of Australia. In other words, the Kelso plan is aimed at spreading the wealth of Australia amongst individuals and not concentrating it in the hands of a monopolistic government. It does it by sharing the ownership of private property, which is simply understood as the productive assets of the community. 
The result of this economic philosophy of providing people with more income- an income beyond what they earn by way of wages- is less welfare required from government and therefore less welfare costs by government. It will lead to less government and a shrinking bureaucracy. It will lead to less tax. Let me quote something that was said recently by President Gerald Ford of the United States. He said: 
Any government that gets so big that it can give you everything you want, will also be so big that it can take everything you Ve got. 
That was said by  President  Ford in his first address to Congress on 12 August 1974. 1 think that it is something of which all Australians need to be aware, having regard to their experience under the present Government. 
In a time of lessening economic activity the Kelso plan and the financing techniques which are involved in it can give a fillip to private enterprise, expand business activity and lead to increased productivity which is the only real and lasting answer to inflation and unemployment. It can do this because all workers through thenownership of shares in the company employing them would have a stake in increased productivity beyond their pay packets and a direct involvement in the productive enterprise which employs them. 
I have only 10 minutes in this grievance debate. That does not give me any opportunity at all to spell out the details of the Kelso plan and the economic philosophy and financing techniques involved in it. I hope that I will have another opportunity to do that in this Parliament. But, when Louis Kelso comes to Australia later this month, I hope that all members of this Parliament will listen to what he has to say. He has had a tremendous impact in America. His ideas now are being picked up by unions and business in the United States, and are being adopted in the financing of the ownership of the capital of the company by employees. His plan is being supported by legislation in the United States Congress. I do not expect the present Government, being a socialist one, to accept the economic philosophy of Louis Kelso; but I would expect that the Liberal Party would adopt it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

It was most illuminating to hear an honourable member from the Government side- the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)-  not trying to turn himself into an economist and do better than his own Treasurer  (Mr Hayden).  That is what we have heard from so many of them during this Budget debate. Members of Parliament have been turning themselves into economists and trying to give a very close analysis of the Budget papers. No one from the Government side has satisfactorily been able to give an analysis of the Budget which shows that it is the right Budget for Australia today because any analysis, not one of an academic economic kind, will show that it is not a Budget which will defeat the twin evils that are facing Australia at the present time- inflation and unemployment. Not everybody is an economist but the people know that there is something wrong with the economy and they can identify what is wrong very quickly. They can identify that we have inflation and that the rate is too high. They can identify that we have unemployment and that the rate is too high, but nothing that they have heard from the Treasurer or any of the speakers from the Government side in this debate has shown what the Government intends doing about these things. The people have learned over the last couple of years that inflation gives the illusion of prosperity, that it is not real income that they are receiving in their bigger and bigger pay packets. 
People today know that unemployment is the product of inflation and they know that both inflation and unemployment hurt the wage and salary earners of Australia, hurt the people on fixed incomes and hurt business which is the biggest employer in Australia. Inflation and unemployment hurt business because it no longer has real profits and it has no savings to reinvest in business enterprises. Business cannot maintain the jobs of the people, let alone increase job opportunities. The people of Australia know that money is still as costly as it ever has been under a Labor government. Housing interest rates are still as high as they have been for the last 2 years and there is no prospect in sight of their being brought down. The high interest is simply the cost of money to young couples who want to build or buy their own homes. Out of all this, never at any time in the last 2 years or so of the life of this Government has inflation been identified as public enemy No. 1. Until the Government identifies it in that way the Government will never have a commitment to defeat inflation. It is recognised throughout the world that it is the will of the people as much as the most careful economic analysis which is required to defeat inflation. 
In speaking to this 1 975 Budget I would like to return to 2 themes that I draw from my speeches on the 1973 and 1974 budgets. The first theme is inflation. In the speech on the 1973 Budget I identified inflation as being the product of deliberate policy by the Government because this was a government which was feeding off inflation, financing its welfare out of inflation. Its policy was a policy at the price of inflation and of course not only the Government but also the people have reaped the whirlwind of that policy since the first Labor Budget of 1973. The other theme which I introduced in 1974 in the Budget debate was that we had then reached a watershed in history precipitated by the oil prices brought on by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, in October 1973- an event which for a time shattered the international economy to the point where it nearly crumbled but fortunately it did not Fortunately the leadership of people like Henry Kissinger and countries like the United States of America has begun to bring order back into the world economic community. But in 1974 it appeared to me that the present Government had not appreciated that there was a watershed in our history and nothing that has happened since, nothing that has been said by the Treasurer in this Budget leads me to believe that this Government is any wiser today than it was then. 
It is important to realise how this Government has used inflation and how it has failed to understand what is happening in the world. The Government has used inflation deliberately as an arm of policy in order to expand Government income and expenditure at the expense of private business. 
It is important in this time of political and philosophical confrontation between the Government and the Opposition that the people understand that the economic measures of the 1973 and 1974 Budgets represent a fundamentally different approach to the economy and the role of private enterprise- that is, private capital and private incomes from the investment of capitalfrom that of the present Opposition Parties during their 23 years in government. In retrospect, it is completely clear that the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  before the 1972 election, as Leader of the Opposition as he then was, that the Labor Party's spending program would be financed out of government revenue without any increase in taxation carried with it the implicit understanding that inflation would be used as the financing measure. That, I believe, is the origin of the present inflationary troubles of this country. 
The Government deliberately embarked upon a policy of inflation to finance its social programs. In fundamental terms the socialists- for the present Government is a government of socialists- see inflation as essential. It is simply the modern method of debasing the currency in order to give to the ruler, be he a monarch or be it a democratic government, more of the people 's wealth and income to finance the ruler's expenditure. In other words, times really do not change. History repeats itself. We know of the monarchs of old, the autocrats of old, who debased the currency in order to finance their own personal wealth or their governments' expenditure. That must always be at the expense of the working men and women of the country. This is what the economic policies of this Government represent in real terms. 
What this Government has done on the economic side by way of debasing the currency is paralleled and complemented by the kind of legislation which it has introduced. I refer to legislation like the modifications to the Australian Industry Development Corporation, the National Investment Fund Bill, the National Compensation Bill and the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill, all intended to draw away from private business the private capital of the nation, the wealth that is held there, and to place it in the hands of the Government. One of the ironic aspects is that this action simply creates another monopoly, one even bigger than the so-called anti-social monopolies of private business which the socialists always deplore. That great monopoly is the Government, where the socialists seek to concentrate the wealth of the nation. Now, I am sure that the working men and women of Australia- those who are members of unions, those who are notappreciate what is happening to their country through the deliberate policy of inflation of the present Government. 
The one place where the people feel the effects of inflation obviously is in their pockets. The reason why they feel inflation there is to be found through the impact of taxation. They know that the more they earn, even more is proportionately taken out by taxation. That is what inflation does. Nothing that has been done by the Treasurer with the tax scale and by providing rebates instead of concessional deductions, alters that fundamental fact. Whilst inflation occurs and progressive tax scales are followed, the proportion of a person's income which is taken out in tax will always be more than the proportion that is left out of the rise in earnings. So, what the Treasurer has done with taxation is not to reform it but simply to rearrange it- and to rearrange it in a way in which it maintains the insidious task of inflation.  (Quorum formed). 
No honourable member needs to go very far in the Budget papers to see that inflation is implicit in this Government's Budget. The Government is relying on a 22 per cent increase in average weekly earnings, and that in itself is a reflection of inflation. That is why, although the Treasurer said that people's tax had been cut, in truth people will be paying more tax as the year goes by. It might be said unkindly that the first Hayden Budget represents one of the greatest Government rip-offs of all time, a rip-off out of the pockets of the taxpayer; a deficit of $2,798m, which is an increase of $2 32m over last year, which in itself was a record deficit. This Budget was heralded by the Prime Minister as being one of restraint and responsibility, but that has been shown now to have been a hollow claim, intended to lull the people, to pacify the people, but of course it has not done anything of that sort. The biggest rip-ofl" is in pay-as-you-earn income tax, and this Government, as I said, feeds off the inflation represented by that tax. 'There will be tax cuts of $205m', said the Treasurer, but in truth the tax rip-off will be by way of an increase of $2,612m. In anybody's terms, and one does not have to be an academic economist to understand this, the Government will get more and more as the people get less and less and work harder and harder. 
The Treasurer spoke of the redistribution of income. Rather proudly he spoke of that as being a distinct feature of his Budget. All that the redistribution of income means is that the Treasurer is taking from the incomes earned by the wage and salary earners of Australia and giving to someone else, be it directly or through the provision of government services. Of course, the old idea of the socialist was that you take from the rich, wealthy capitalists and you distribute some of their capital to other people. But the truth of the modern socialists is that they take from the income earner of today and give to other people. I should not have thought that any right thinking person would believe that this is the right kind of policy for Australia. When one looks at the impact of inflation, coupled with the progressive tax scales, one sees that it is really time we began to look again at whether the progressive tax scales ought to be the basis of income tax in Australia. I wonder whether we ought not look again at a flat rate scale. I believe that Professor Henderson, the  Chairman  of the Australian Government's Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, has himself looked at this prospect, because there is no doubt at all that the combination of progressive tax scales and inflation takes more and more out of the pockets of the people and transfers it to the Government. 
Our philosophy is a very simple one. The Liberal and National Country parties' philosophy is one which the people will find thoroughly acceptable when they consider it. Our attitude is that the earnings of a man or a woman from the work that they do is theirs primarily for their own benefit and use. Something must be taken by the Government for the provision of basic services, but our philosophy simply put is that government should take less and leave more with the people. We believe that there is enough good sense in the minds of the people to manage their own affairs well enough. 
What we have then is a conversion from dependence on public welfare to individual responsibility for private welfare. In doing that we would be providing to the people, to the working man and woman of Australia an economic freedom which equates with personal freedom. The more government takes from people's earnings the more it lessens their economic freedom and the more it lessens their personal freedom. However much the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  might protest, he knows the truth of that simple statement. I mentioned earlier that there was in 1973 a watershed in world economic history. Little did I realise when I referred to the irreversible change brought about by oil prices and depicted this as a watershed in history that I was foreshadowing Australia 's chase after funny money. The irony is that it was  Mr Connor  himself, the architect of the nationalist resource policy of the present 
Government, who after having condemned overseas money, chased after it as fast as he could. 
We do have some national objectives we ought to be pursuing in Australia at present. The greatest challenge to a Liberal Party led government will be to see that the capital required for small and big business is brought back into Australia. into the mining industry, into the manufacturing industries and into the primary industries of Australia. Of all the key industries in Australia the hardest hit is the mining industry. It is the one most starved of capital and the one hardest hit by inflation. This calls for clearly stated policies based on an expression of national objectives. We might sum this up very simply by saying that Australians aspire to a better life based on increasing living standards within a secure nation and a stable economy that contributes to an inter-dependent world, not a world in which we embark upon resource blackmail, as epitomised by the coal levy. To achieve these national objectives the critical components will be capital and skilled manpower. 
The provision of capital is, of course, bedevilled by the issues of foreign ownership and control of our natural resources. Unquestionably in the future some part of the capital and of the manpower we require will have to come from overseas. That fact has never been recognised by the Minister for Minerals and Energy and hopefully it will not be too long before we can show him how wrong he is. As well as that, the task which will be ahead of a Liberal-National Country Party government is to look at new mechanisms within the Australian capital market for finding the domestic capital which will be needed also to finance the great resource projects that are waiting to be developed. It is this kind of national objective which we as a LiberalNational Country Party government will be pursuing, because we see within the resource industries of Australia the cornerstone of the future prosperity of our nation and its role in the world economy. Unless those 2 things are grasped no economic policy for growth and prosperity can have any hope of success. 
-Let me put into perspective the crisis that is facing the mineral and energy industries of Australia today. The 1970s in Australia is a lost decade due to 3 years of gross mismanagement of the nation's natural endowment. Energy policy has been falsely predicated on unlimited availability and profligate use, bringing Australia face to face with a serious energy crisis in the early 1980s. With explorers driven out, with resources untapped - 
-I was saying that, with explorers driven out and with resources untapped, the nation's dependence on imported oil is growing alarmingly. Minerals exploration has slumped. There has been no major discovery or major development in Australia in the past 3 years. Cost inflation has hit outback mineral developments harsher than city consumers. Regionally important projects like the north-west shelf gas production have been delayed and jeopardised. There has been an exodus of - 
-May I proceed? I was saying that there has been an exodus of skills and capital which could take 5 years to restore. For both energy and minerals the stifling of exploration and the blocking of development have determined now the production of energy and minerals for the early 1980s. The mining and energy industries have been in a survival situation since 1972 and they are really in a holding pattern until the next election. This is all the result of the Government's policy of confrontation with the industries implemented through the present Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is at the table. 
In Western Australia we have seen this only too dramatically in the development that has been stopped in the north-west shelf. The gas and oil fields there, primarily the gas fields, undoubtedly will be the foundation of the future progress of Western Australia. In that progress of Western Australia the whole of the nation will progress. But we have had nothing but 3 years delay and this will mean in developmental terms a decade lost. The answer to this position is that development should proceed now, immediately, as a matter of urgency. In Western Australia also we have seen exploration for minerals drop until it is all but the largest companies which are out of the field. 
On a national basis undoubtedly energy sources into the 1980s are the most pressing resource problem, particularly our increasing dependence on imported oil. That will come about sooner than Australians think. Why is it that the Minister has always proposed that Australian. should pay not their own producers of domestic crude oil but foreign producers, and pay the taxes which the foreign producers put on thenown product to be paid by the consuming nations of the world. How much better off would Australia be if it were paying its own producers rather than those foreign producers. 
Clearly enough, price and tax mechanisms are the key factors in stimulating exploration. Without exploration, we can never have future development. Over recent years we have had instability because of indecision over price, delay over price and the removal of the tax concessions required in this high risk capital intensive field of resources development. There can be no progress out of a policy of confrontation. At one time there was a bright spot. That was the export of coal. But coal now is blighted by the coal levy. Immediately that levy was announced in the Budget speech, exploration was stopped. 
Of course, exploration has to be paid for out of profit and the lower the profit that is available to the developing companies the lower will be the level of exploration to establish new reserves for future development. The Government has put a levy on coal and a levy on domestic crude oil on the basis of taxing windfall profits. But I often wonder if windfall profits are to be taxed who will subsidise windfall losses? This is the other side of the coin which is never mentioned by the Government or by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. We ought to appreciate that the more profits are taxed the less is available for exploration and future development and the more the incentive for people to invest in this high risk field is destroyed. 
As the Government imposes a tax on so-called windfall profits, who then does the Government expect will put up the $ 1 ,000m and more needed to develop the new Queensland coal fields and to expand the existing ones? The coal levy puts the Commonwealth in confrontation with the States. The Minister for Education, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  a West Australian, quite rightly identified the coal levy as a royalty. The Australian States have the constitutional authority to impose royalties on the extraction of minerals within their boundaries. When the Commonwealth comes in and puts on a levy, it is nothing more than a Commonwealth royalty. Of course this immediately puts the Commonwealth into a situation of confrontation with the States concerned. Where will it end? In another great mineral producing country, Canada, this same problem has arisen of the central Government and the provincial governments competing in the taxing of mineral profits and placing royalties upon production. 
The other important aspect of this coal levy which ought not to be forgotten is that it is a tax on a great consuming nation; that is, Japan. In that sense also, it is a policy of confrontation between Australia as a producing nation and Japan as a consumer. This kind of tax on consuming nations is the very antithesis of the developing international economic relations since the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries crisis of October 1973. International relationships today are being built on a policy of interdependence between consuming and producing nations, not on a policy of confrontation or on a policy of resources blackmail. 
If coal, why not iron ore, as the Minister for Minerals and Energy has asked. Australia- and that means Western Australia- is the second largest world producer of iron ore. The Soviet Union is the largest. Western Australia with one minion people produces more iron ore than any other western country. How easy would it be for this Government, if it puts a tax on coal produced in Queensland, to put a tax on iron ore produced in Western Australia? Why not a tax on mineral sands, of which, as the Minister has informed the House, Australia is the largest producer in the world? Western Australia again is the largest producer of mineral sands in Australia. Why not an export tax on nickel or on mineral sands? Where will it end? All that the Government needs to do is to identify a margin of profit as a windfall profit. 
We in the Opposition are concerned about the mining and energy industries because they are among the great wealth producing industries of Australia. The rural industries are others. The mining and energy industries are part of the foundations of the nation's prosperity. It is important then that those industries should receive aU the incentives that a national government can give, to allow them to expand production, domestic processing and exports. Minerals are only dirt on our shoes or gravel on our roads until they are mined and processed. The futility of the squirrel mentality of keeping minerals in the ground has been displayed quite dramatically by this Government. We can see it quite dramatically in respect of the natural gas on the north-west shelf of Western Australia. This 3 year's delay in development has meant that this premium energy fuel is probably no longer competitive with Middle East crude oil. What advantage Australia had in the market in exporting to Japan, for example, has now been lost. Australia, and in particular Western Australia are no longer in the competitive position they would have been in if development and some export had been allowed during the last 3 years. 
The undoubted fact, the known fact is that there are ample gas reserves in the north-west shelf and in other parts of Australia to allow an initial export, by way of an LNG project, to Japan. The unique proximity of those natural gas fields to the iron ore fields in Western Australia presents this country with an unequalled opportunity to build a foundation for greater development of my State, Western Australia, and of Australia as a whole through the development of those north-west shelf gas fields. 
The uranium industry also has suffered the blight of this Government. We have uranium at Yeelering in Western Australia and whilst there is a great deal of talk of what is being done and what ought to be done about Northern Territory uranium. I should like the Minister, one day, to tell the House and all members of Parliament from Western Australia, what his policy proposals are for development of Western Australian uranium. There is a ready market for it. In no way would Australia's future energy requirements be jeopardised if export of uranium was allowed. Another great industry would be established in Western Australia producing export earnings for the whole nation. A Liberal-National Country Party government would see as an urgent need the implementation of policies which will resuscitate the mining industry and lead it to greater development than was experienced in the great decade of the 1960s. 
Some of the things at which we will be looking are: The need to restructure the mineral industry's concession and taxation framework to allow established mines to survive and expand and new ones to break in. It is not without significance that this has been central to the industry's submissions before the Industries Assistance Commission, and it is to be hoped that out of this the mistaken philosophy of the Fitzgerald report will be overcome. We see as a matter of high priority the definition of Australia's mineral and energy resources, because without that definition there can be no foundation for future development We see an urgent need to restore Federal-State co-operation. We see an urgent need to establish new levels of consultation between industry and government. We will encourage the extension of mining into processingsomething, I mention to this House, that has already been given legislative teeth by the agreements ratified by the State Parliament of Western Australia and introduced by the Brand-Court Government in pioneering the Pilbara. 
We will allow exports of minerals where there is a surplus to national requirements and where regionally important projects require it. As I have mentioned, uranium and north-west shelf gas are areas in which we would establish clear guidelines to let the industry know where it stands. We want to establish in contrast to the present Government, a broadly based ownership of the minerals industry, from the small explorer to the major company. We want to stimulate, as I have said, grass roots exploration because explorers must be made welcome again. With this kind of approach, with a true appreciation of the energy crisis which will face Australia in the 1980s - 
-There is one thing that is abundantly clear from all the debates in this place concerning minerals and energy, and that is that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  is living in the past, pursuing an ideology of the 1 930s that is quite inappropriate to the 1970s and the 1980s. He is living in a time where he believes in economic nationalism which, in the way in which he pursues it, is resources blackmail against the consuming nations of this world. If he only followed what is happening in this world instead of his own little corner of Cunningham he would realise that the world is bigger than his little plot of land. I think he ought to have a talk to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  who came very close to losing his seat in the last election in May 1974. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  spoke of the men who work and live on the minefields of Australia. Let the Minister speak to the miners at Kalgoorlie. Let him speak to the miners in the iron ore fields. I remind him that these people elected to the State Parliament of Western Australia Liberal members because they know where prosperity lies. It does not lie with the policies of a Labor Minister of the likes of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. 
We have had illustrated to us tonight in what has been said by the Leader of the Opoosition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  the double standards which this Minister pursues. Compare what he did to Australian Gas Light Co. with what he did for ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd in approving the purchase of a quota of domestic crude oil. All that the Minister can do now is try to shield himself by the royal commission. What I would like to know is whether the Minister would be prepared to have a full scale open ended debate, when the report of the royal commission comes down, on the activities of ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd and domestic crude oU quotas. There are some people who are prepared to say that the Minister is a crook. I do not say that. Some people do. But all honourable members may wonder what kind of standards the Minister follows when he approves of the agreement of the ACTU-Solo organisation but disapproves of the agreement that was put forward to him by the Australian Gas Light Co. Ltd. We can look also at the oil price POliCY of the Minister. I can remember that prior to the 1974 election he condemned - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Was  the honourable member referring to the Minister when he made that remark? 
No. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member said, I think, that some people outside the Parliament would say that someone is a crook. Was he referring to the Minister? 
-Some people have said that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Was the honourable member referring to the Minister? 
Yes. I said that some people have said that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I ask the honourable member to withdraw the remark. 
If you consider it appropriate then Ida 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  It is most appropriate. That is a remark that is contrary to all the forms of the Parliament 
But the point - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I ask the honourable member to withdraw the remark unreservedly. 
Yes, I have done so- if you consider it appropriate. The whole point - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! It is not a matter of whether I consider it appropriate; it is a matter of the remark being unparliamentary and I ask the honourable member to withdraw it. 
-I withdraw it. What must be questioned by honourable members is whether or not a double standard is applied by the Minister in these kinds of dealings which. come before him. We can look also at the oil pricing policy which the Government has pursued. We can recall prior to 1974 when the Minister denounced anyone who suggested that there might well be the need for an increase in the price of domestic crude oil for various reasons- overseas prices, the need to provide incentives to Aus.tralian explorers- but when the Minister condemns anyone who has called for an increase in the oU price what did we find in 1974?  His  Government increased the price of oil by $2 a barrel, being the levy placed upon aU crude oil producers. What reliance can be placed on the word of the Minister when, having condemned those who proposed a rise in the price of oU, he then does the very same thing himself? 
What reliance can be placed on the policies of the Minister when he levies an export tax like the levy upon the export of coal? What reliance can be placed on the policies of the Minister when, rather than giving to the producers of oil in Australia a fair price for their product, he would prefer to see the consumers of Australia- the motorists of Australia- pay a higher price, because as the years go by they must rely more and more on the import of higher priced oil from the Arab oil producers? The alternative that the Minister is offering to the people of Australia is: Pay to your own producers in Australia or pay to producers overseas. Quite clearly this Minister has chosen to require the people of Australia to pay a higher price to producers overseas for the oil that they need within Australia. 
It is not only in that respect but it is the people- particularly the rural people of Aus.tralia who rely on liquefied petroleum gas as fuel. The $2 crude oil levy that has been applied to domestic production applies also to the production of LPG. That immediately increases the price of a basic fuel for so many people in Australia. What reliance can the consumers of basic energy in Australia place upon the policies of this Government, as indicated and as pursued by this Minister? I can also remember the Minister having said some months ago that we were to have a new petrochemical complex at Redcliffs in South Australia. But where is that project now? It is a project which has failed. It has failed because of the policies of this Minister. 
-We have no Redcliffs petrochemical complex and there is no prospect of that complex in sight. We have also heard the Minister tell the people of Australia that they have no need to worry about the availability of petrol because when the supplies of domestic crude oil run out he will provide them with petrol through a coal liquefaction plant. We have not heard anything of that recently, for the obvious reason that it is uneconomic. Any economic analysis on the basis of the price of crude oil produced in Australia will show that production of petrol from the liquefaction of coal is totally uneconomic. The Minister speaks also of the provision of petrol to the people of Australia from condensers, but it is uneconomic. 
For a man who sets himself up as a technical genius he has certainly displayed economic ignorance of the grossest kind. The more we look at the policies and activities of the Minister responsible for one of the most vital sections of the Australian economy and the Australian way of life the more we see that his ministry has been a ministry of failure. There can be no alternative to that proposition. It has been a ministry of failure because there have been no results. If we look for results we can see only a nil balance. When we look at the estimates for the Department of Minerals and Energy we can see only that in the Minister there has been no progress in the field of minerals and energy, there has been no major discovery within the last 3 years, there has been no major development within that period. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Australia's role as one of the world's great trading nations is a proper subject for concern in this debate on the estimates of the Department of Overseas Trade because that role is an important one in the development of what has recently been termed the new world economic order precipitated by the oil price increases of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in October 1973. It is history now how the oil crisis of that time led to an international monetary crisis which in its turn led to a reappraisal of the relationships between rich and poor nations, between developed and developing nations. In many cases, but not all cases, the rich and developed countries were coincidental and the poor and developing countries were coincidental. It also brought about a reappraisal of the relationships between producer and consuming nations of the raw materials which are the basis of industrial development and also of food and fibre. 
What became abundantly clear in the aftermath of that oil crisis was that the disposition of the world's resources- its raw materials, particularly the energy resources of the world- became a matter of vital importance to world economic stability and also to sound international relations. Australia's role here as a great provider of raw materials and processed materials by way of minerals, food and fibre to the world, quite apart from its present major trading partners, therefore gave to Australia a new prominence. It can be said, I think in a very real sense, that Australia's strongest defence apart from military defence in an unstable region rests in a strong diversified economy with a wide spread of international investments acting as a supplier of raw and processed materials to numerous consumer nations. 
Australia perhaps has a unique position because it is both a producer nation and a developed nation, although for my part I do not necessarily adopt the description 'developed nation' as being truly appropriate to Australia. If we adopt that view of ourselves we accept that we are on a plateau of development. Of course Australia, with its great natural wealth, is not on a plateau of development but on a rising plane. Australia, both as a producer nation and as a developed nation in the sense in which I have referred to it, has a significant place in the framing of the emerging relationship between producer and consumer countries which will influence the future of the Western world. 
Interdependence is the essence of this relationship. It is a relationship about which the United States Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, has spoken a great deal in recent times and on which he has made many speeches. I refer to just one of those delivered on 14 July of this year before the Institute of World Affairs at the University of Wisconsin. Amongst other points,  Mr Kissinger  made this one: 
The pursuit of economic growth is complicated by the fact of inter-dependence; it can no longer be pursued by national efforts but requires co-ordinated, global actions. 
When one considers Australia's role as a great supplier of resources to the world I think it can be seen quickly what a vital position Australia has in any steps to bring about co-ordinated global actions. I speak in this debate to express some concern that Australia has not yet found its proper place in the new international relationships which are being developed. Australia as one of the world's great trading nations, must have a sense of urgency in finding its place in this emerging international relationship of interdependence. Against that world background we can look particularly at Australia's relationship with Japan. I think that trading relationship can be properly referred to as our most important relationship. Here we do require a real sense of interdependence between the economies of Japan and Australia because those 2 economies are firmly linked. 
This was brought home to us in Australia at the recent Thirteenth Joint Meeting of the AustraliaJapan Business Co-operation Committee which was held in my home city of Perth from 3 
September to 5 September. In the joint communique from the meeting it was pointed out that Australia and Japan are firmly linked in the relationship founded on 2-way trade which has risen from $265m in 1958-59 to $3,233m in 1973-74. It was predicted that in the next decade this relationship will lead to substantial joint economic development. Australia as a great producer of raw materials therefore must be careful in joining any association of producers. It must be careful to see that it is not led into a position where it might embark upon a policy of resource blackmail rather than resource co-operation in the spirit of international interdependence to which I have already referred. This concern was expressed in the joint communique of the AustraliaJapan Business Co-operation Committee. Delegates expressed the hope that the development of associations of producers of raw materials would not hamper the development of trade between Australia and Japan. 
When one appreciates the great dependence of Japan upon the iron ore from Western Australianearly 50 per cent of Japan's requirements- we can quickly understand the concern both of the Australia and the Japanese delegates that associations of producers of raw materials should not hamper the 2-way trade which links our 2 nations. This is not only the case in mineral resources but also in food and fibre because trade in agricultural products is an important part of Australia 's overseas trade. This matter was brought to a head recently with concern expressed by Japanese delegates to that joint meeting about the ability of Australia to meet the commitments it entered into for Japan to receive Australian coking coal from the decade commencing in the 1980s.  Mr Saburo  Tanabe, the Senior Managing Director of the Nippon Steel Corporation, expressed concern that Australia might not be able to fulfil its obligations. The significance of this, again in terms of interdependence, can be understood by realising that for the iron and steel production of the Japanese economy it must have both iron ore and coking coal. It cannot have one without the other. Therefore if we are to maintain our export earnings through the export of iron ore from Western Australia we must also be able to fulfil the requirement of the Japanese iron and steel industry for coking coal. I think in those short words in this Estimates debate I have shown the vital significance of the policy of interdependence for the welfare of Australia's overseas trade. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I welcome this opportunity to speak on the estimates for the Department of Environment, particularly because yesterday the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment published a report dealing with coastal land. I have been personally concerned for some time with that matter as it affects the metropolitan coastline of Perth, particularly that part which falls within my electorate of Stirling, parts of the coastline further south, and an area at Swanbourne which is presently owned and occupied by the Commonwealth and used by the Army. The report of that Committee is, I believe, of great significance because it focuses attention, not for the first time but quite significantly, on the need for a national coastal protection policy. One of the firm recommendations of the Committee is that the Australian Government should institute in close co-operation with the States a national coastal protection policy. I support such a national policy wholeheartedly, not only because of my own experience but also because of the importance of protection of the whole of the Australian coastline. 
There is quite a controversy in Western Australia at the present time over a proposal by certain local authorities to put a highway through the Army land at Swanbourne. That might sound innocent in itself; it might also appear to be a matter of necessity if one considers the buildup in the volume of traffic which is occurring all the time. But the significance of it is that the proposed highway is to be constructed through coastal sand dune country and, in particular, through the Army land which is unique because of the fragility of the coastal sand dunes in that area and also because it is one of the last natural areas of sand dune country in metropolitan Perth. The remainder of the coastal land has been built upon for residential and commercial purposes. This area of the Swanbourne Army land represents the last significant part of the near metropolitan area of Perth where the sand dune country is in its natural state. I noted particularly what the Committee said in chapter 4 paragraph 4.56 of its report in which it pointed out the necessity for ecological buffer zones between different areas of land use; for example- it is rather interesting and significant that the Committee cited this example- for protection of sand dune systems. 
I think it is more than a coincidence that one of the members of the Advisory Committee which published this report is Professor G. Seddon of Melbourne University. Professor Seddon made a particular study of the sand dunes of Western Australia. He wrote a magnificent book called  A Sense of Place  in which he describes the fragile nature of the sand dunes and points up the necessity to preserve them. He also stated how they can be so easily damaged if proper environmental control is not exercised, particularly by putting roads through this kind of country. The Army land at Swanbourne can and does at present represent a significant ecological buffer zone such as the Advisory Committee recommends ought to be provided. I was interested to hear the Minister speak earlier about the competing interests that inevitably arise in considering environmental matters. You do have these competing interests between those who wish to drive a road through the Army land at Swanbourne and those who wish to preserve the area for what it is, with its unique characteristics. I am one of those who unhesitatingly say that I am opposed to putting a highway through this area, a highway which, as is known to the people of Perth, is intended to be a link with what is called the west-coast highway. It can be only a 4-lane or 6-lane highway- not just a small insignificant link road, but one of major importance in the regional traffic routing in Perth. 
I was pleased also when in answer to a letter of mine recently the Minister made it quite clear that the results of a study at present being undertaken at a cost of $150,000, funded by the Department of Transport, will not be binding on the Australian Government. The results may form the basis of an environmental impact study if the proposal for a highway is to be taken further. I think it is of the utmost importance that the Australian Government does not regard the results of the present study as being binding upon it. For my part I am not satisfied that the study will produce a proper judgment with respect to the competing interests that are involved. One might say in less personal terms that those competing interests are between the motor car and the sand dunes. It is so very easy to say we need a road, to look at a nice open space on a map and say: 'We can put this road through from point A to point B In an engineering sense that is perfectly true, but I believe quite firmly and with some feeling of passion that in a situation of this kind we must go far beyond mere engineering considerations. Because the Commonwealth both owns and occupies this land it has a very special responsibility. It has a responsibility to ensure that the environment is protected, to make its own assessment and judgment on whether or not this area of land, unique as it is within metropolitan Perth, should be preserved as it is. I must pay tribute to the Army for the way in which it has not sought over the years to intrude into this area except so far as has been absolutely necessary for defence purposes. 
I am not only opposed to what is suggested in regard to a west-coast highway link through the Swanbourne Army land but I am also concerned as the member for the seat of Stirling because what is done with the Swanbourne Army land will directly affect the regional road systems north of it and particularly the road systems within my own electorate. Fortunately some of the best surfing beaches in Western Australiacertainly in metropolitan Perth- are within my electorate. Places like Scarborough and Trigg have great surfing beaches for both body and board surfing. They are also great swimming beaches. At the present time there is immediately adjacent to the ocean a road which carries a tremendous amount of traffic- traffic which is ever increasing. I must say for my own local authority, the city of Stirling, that it is concerned that the volume of traffic should not increase. It is also concerned that this road should not become a major highway. Therefore, both from a personal and a political interest, I think it is of great national importance that this report of the Advisory Committee on the Environment has been brought down, advocating as it does a national coastal protection policy. Such a policy, as the Committee points out, need not be and it is not intended that it would be in derogation of States' rights. It is something that can be assisted by the Commonwealth both in regard to funding and information and advice in co-operation with the States, many of which, as the Committee points out, have already embarked upon their own State policies of coastal protection. In some States this is supported by legislation and in others it is supported by town planning procedures. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
If I were to refute every one of the propositions that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  put forward I would take up the whole of my 15 minutes to do so. I do not intend to do so because others inside and outside this House will analyse his speech and see the fallacies within it which are so obvious. Let me make one or two comments to start off with. He speaks of corrupt State governments and mentions the Western Australian Government as one such government in regard to its minerals policy. Let me remind the honourable member that in the Pilbara in the north-west of Western Australia, the iron ore province of Australia, there are now 9000 employees where there were none seven or eight years ago. With their families they are established in towns built and provided by the mining companies in that area. Australia is now the largest non-communist producer of iron ore in the world. In Australia that means Western Australia. Is that the result of policies of a corrupt government? The Western Australian LiberalCountry Party Government through its development policy is able to provide Japan with nearly half the iron ore on which the Japanese iron and steel industry is dependent. 
The honourable member also speaks of the Fitzgerald report. I think there is one thing that can be said about that report which establishes immediately the inadequacies of it, and that is that it ignores the reality of development in the minerals industry of Australia, some of which I have referred to but which is multiplied throughout Australia. One thing needs to be remembered by the honourable member and his colleagues in the Government. The wealth of the outback of Australia is the bastion of the development of the cities of Australia. The city and the country are interdependent as to mineral development, manufacturing and city life, in much the same way as in the past the city and the country were interdependent when Australia depended so much on its agricultural development. 
There can be no doubt that there has been a dramatic fall-off in exploration in both the minerals and petroleum fields during the life of the present Government. All the statistics will establish that. The industry will tell the Government that if it will only listen. One only needs to get out into the field to understand it.  Sir James  Foots, one of the leading mining industry people in Australia, a man well respected by the Government as well as the Opposition and within his own industry, pointed out very recently in a speech to the Australian Institute of Management that the lifeblood of the mining industry, its exploration programs, is being choked by the policies of the Federal Government.  Sir James  pointed out that it is a matter of great concern that exploration activity in Australia had declined dramatically in the past three or four years and showed no sign of picking up. As he warned- I think this is something that the Government needs to appreciate- Australia cannot keep living off the fruits of yesterday's discoveries. If it does Australia will be very much the poorer in the decades ahead because exploration is the lifeblood of the mining industry, one of the great pillars of wealth in Australia. That is why the Opposition is so concerned about what this Government has done to the mining and petroleum industry. 
What also needs to be appreciated is that people, companies, prospectors, will explore only if there is a prospect of reward from the development of their discovery. From that development they must derive profit to repay past costs and provide future capital to continue exploration and further development. It has been the impact of Government policy which has brought about such a dramatic fall in exploration and which has led to strained relations between the industry and government. One thing that must be remembered above all is that if government is going to utilise the capacity and the talent that is in industry there must be the closest consultation with industry. There has been withdrawal of tax incentives which play an important part in the profit potential of industry and upon which, as I say, its future capital needs are dependent. 
I refer particularly to the accelerated depreciation provisions which were taken away by the present Government. There has been an uncertainty of policy throughout the life of the administration of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  and this has had one dramatic effect. That has been the threat to the title of explorers to their discoveries. We have seen in the Northern Territory within the uranium industry a threat to their title to what was discovered so that they do not know when they expend millions of dollars and make a discovery whether the Government is going to give them a title to develop. The same thing has occurred in the oil industry. There has been a threat to the security of title to what has been discovered. A typical example was on the north-west shelf, in the statements by the Minister threatening the title of the north-west shelf discoverers to be able to continue with development of their discovery. Above all, explorers require security of tenure. No person, no company, will put money into exploration if he is uncertain about his right to continue development. 
More recently, export levies have been put upon the coal industry and the petroleum industry. The coal levy and the crude oil levy have had a devastating effect on both those industries. I know that immediately the coal levy was announced the coal industry stopped exploration, quite obviously because the industry did not know what its future was with this coal export levy. I have no hesitation in saying that that kind of export duty is bad. It is wrong in principle. It inhibits exploration, it inhibits development, and it operates particularly in the export field of coking coal as resource blackmail upon the consuming countries which are so dependent upon it. I refer particularly to Japan, which is as dependent upon Australia for its coking coal as it is for the iron ore from Western Australia. 
In one field above all within the minerals and energy administration of this Government have we seen the failure of the Government's policies, and that is in the area of energy. A crisis in energy in Australia is fast approaching. Anyone who studies the industry knows that. Australians have been fed with the propaganda from the Minister for Minerals and Energy that we have unlimited availability of oil and petrol. Unlimited availability for ever and ever is the kind of message that the Minister has given to the people, but that is simply not the fact. We may be able to proudly boast that in comparison with other countries we now get 70 per cent of our requirements of crude oil from domestic production and so we are dependent upon the pricing policies of the Arab countries for only 30 per cent of our requirements. That may be so at the present time, but the undoubted fact is that by 1980 production will be falling. By 1985 to 1990 the 70 per cent provision of crude oil from Australian production will have fallen to 30 per cent and the relationship between imports and domestic production will have been reversed completely and we will be dependent then upon the production of the Arab oil producers. 
Does Australia want to be put in that position? Of course it does not. It need not be put in that position if the oil industry is provided with the incentives to get on with the job, to put the wells into the ground. The only way oil will be discovered is by getting the wells drilled. What have we seen? We have seen a decline in the number of wells drilled over the last 6 years. In 1969 there were 322 wells drilled off-shore and onshore. So far in 1975 only 16 wells have been drilled. There has been a drop from 322 to 16. It is firmly believed within the industry that by mid 1976 it is doubtful that one well will be drilled off-shore. Now we hear the honourable member for Blaxland pointing out that the oil experts say that Australia will find its oil on the edge of the continental plateau in some 2000 feet of water. If wells off-shore and closer in-shore are to cost about $75,000 a day to operate what will be the cost of operating wells in 2000 feet of water. The honourable member quotes a figure of $4m to $5m for one well. That is high risk in anybody's language. We know the proportion of discoveries to dry wells. That amount of money is a lot in anybody's language. What company, Australian or overseas, will put $4m to $5m into drilling a well in deep water to discover oil for Australia and so provide Australia with the highest degree of self-sufficiency when the company is not provided with the incentives to get on with the job. This is the failure of the energy policy of the present Government. 
What the Government cannot appreciate is the replacement cost concept. If we do not discover and produce our own oil we have to get it from somewhere else. The only other place we can get it is overseas and we have to pay overseas producers. How much more sensible it is to put our money into Australia instead of into Arab nations. How much more sensible it is in the pricing policies for domestic crude oil to observe that replacement cost concept. 
We need from the Government a flexible combination of royalty, tax and price. Included in tax I refer to the depreciation provisions allowing for rapid write-off of costs. This Government might well take heed of the financial oil policy announced by one of the newest independent countries in the world- Papua New Guinea. I suggest to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy that he obtain a copy of the policy released earlier this week by  Mr Chan.  Let me read quickly just one or two parts of it. He said: 
Despite the high risk and costs the companies are confident enough to spend a lot of money on searching for oil. It is only reasonable that they should know early on what reward they can expect for their investment and risk. For this reason it has been a priority of this Government to formulate clear, logical and fair policies for the development of the petroleum industry. 
That is a leaf out of the book of the Papua New Guinea Government which this Labor Government could well take heed of.  Mr Chan  goes on to say: 
In petroleum we will be applying the same basic approach to policy to that we have developed for metal mining. The main work in exploration and development will be undertaken by private firms operating under terms and conditions specified by the Government. We are anxious to maintain the current high level of exploration activity- 
I only wish the present Federal Labor Government had the same sentiments as Papua New Guinea has-  and the terms and conditions specified will reflect this aim. At the same time the guiding principle, stated many times before, is that the investor should receive a reasonable return on his investment but a high proportion of any income in excess of that reasonable return should go to the people of Papua New Guinea. 
Companies can expect to receive the full world market price for any oil that they produce. A maximum royalty of one and a quarter per cent of the value of production will be levied. Normal corporate income tax will be levied . . . and we are examining various ways of allowing relatively flexible and, where necessary, rapid write-off. We are particularly sympathetic - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to direct my remarks on this Bill particularly to those parts of it which deal with off-shore operations. We know how important those operations are to production of oil in Australia. We know how dependent Australia is on the oil production in Bass Strait. We also know the potential for oil and gas production in other off-shore areas of Australia, particularly off the North-west Shelf. It is intended by this Bill to give to the Commonwealth Government power to make regulations with respect to certain vessels and other structures used in connection with off-shore operations. For the first time that power will come to the Commonwealth Government under the Navigation Act. 
As the industry is so vital the Opposition is very concerned about the militant union action which has been taking place in recent weeks in the Bass Strait fields. This was mentioned by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  Led by the militant left wing officers of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, the welders in particular have held up the construction of off-shore oil structures which are necessary to increase the production of oil from the Bass Strait fields, which production is vital to the future domestic energy requirements of Australia. It is satisfying that the strike has been settled. It is most unsatisfying to find that unionists who did not want to strike were compelled to do so under the influence of the militant left wing officials conducting wage negotiations in that area. The fact that after all these weeks of strike the union has accepted wage indexation- it fought bitterly against it before- only highlights the absurdity of the action that was taken and highlights how damaging it has been in delaying the construction of those necessary off-shore structures. That is one aspect of the intrusion by the Commonwealth Government into this field. We would have hoped that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  would have exerted some influence on those unionists to prevent such a damaging strike. We would like to hear from him that in the future, in contrast to the past, he will exert some influence to prevent this sort of thing happening again. 
I want to mention also the almost inevitable conflict which will emerge if this legislation is passed. I refer to the conflict between the Navigation Act as it would be amended and the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act which is presently in operation in respect of the production of off-shore oil and gas. It is rather ironic that this Bill in respect of off-shore vessels and other structures should proceed upon the basis of the constitutional validity of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973, which is presently under challenge in the High Court as being beyond the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth. It is also ironic that this amendment to the Navigation Act proceeds upon the basis of the constitutional validity of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act to which I have already referred. It is ironic because the former- not late lamented but certainly former- Minister for Minerals and Energy, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean)  have all said that it is impossible to enter into any dealings with the States or for the Commonwealth to grant in co-operation with the States, under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, any exploration permits or production permits because of the pending challenge in the High Court to the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. Those honourable gentlemen say that the Commonwealth's hands are tied until that challenge is finalised. We know why the honourable gentlemen say that their hands are tied. It is plainly because if the High Court should uphold the validity of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act this Government would want to take unto itself complete control over all exploration and exploitation of natural resources off-shore from Australia- not only oil and gas but also other minerals that may be obtained from the sea bed. 
So at the same time we have this Government relying on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act under challenge in the High Court and acknowledging the validity of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act under which this Government will not operate. There could be nothing worse for efficient off-shore operations than for operators not to know which Act applies to them- the Navigation Act as amended by this Bill or the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, the provisions of which apply to off-shore structures, offshore vessels, drilling rigs, barges and the like. I would like to hear from the Minister how it is proposed by this Government that any conflict or confusion is to be resolved. Has the Government had any discussions with the States to resolve this conflict, this competition? As the honourable member for Gippsland indicated, the Government has not had any consultation with any of the States. What a poor method of administration it is for the Minister for Transport to ignore the States which are charged with the responsibility, in co-operation with the Commonwealth, for the administration of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. Does the honourable gentleman deny the interest of the States in the Act? Does he deny the interest of the States in the effect of the amendments to the Navigation Bill which he is now presenting to the House? Why is it that the Government has not had any consultations with any of the States, not even with the Labor States? We could perhaps understand that the Government would not be too happy with the non-Labor States, but why has it not had consultations with its friends in the Labor States of South Australia and Tasmania? Perhaps the Minister can tell us that during this debate. 
The Opposition is concerned with 3 aspects of this Bill in regard to the off-shore areas. The first one I have mentioned is in regard to the assumption of responsibility under this Act for matters that are presently subject to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. The second aspect of the Bill concerns its effect on the industry, particularly on the employment of crews and staff in off-shore areas. How does the Minister see the impact of this Bill and the regulations proposed to be made under the new section 8A, subsection (5)? Finally, what implications are there for off-shore operators in relation to requirements with which vessels have to comply? Certainly it is indicated by the regulations that certain requirements will be introduced in regard to the construction of off-shore vessels and units, the equipment that must be carried, machinery and safety devices- obviously there must be safety requirements for off-shore vessels and structures as there are for ships- and the other matters which are referred to as being within the power to make regulations affecting these offshore structures and vessels. We would like to have some clarification from the Minister with regard to these matters because it is important for operators who are already there and who, we hope, will be moving into the off-shore areas in greater numbers than we have seen in recent times, to know the implications of the exercise of the power to make regulations with respect to their operations. 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Mr Speaker, the questions I have raised, deriving directly from the proposed provision of the Navigation Act, are accentuated when we have, as I have pointed out already, the provisions of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act operating off-shore in respect of the same structures. I would have thought that it would be much more sensible administration to have these off-shore operations controlled by one piece of legislation in a code so that the people and companies affected know where to go. Clarity is available through the operation of a single code whereas I fully expect there will be confusion with the continued operation of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and the operation of these new provisions of the Navigation Act. Why is it that the Government has chosen not to have one piece of legislation operating as a code to affect off-shore operations but rather to have these 2 pieces of legislation operating not in parallel but in conflict? 
The introduction of these provisions of the Navigation Bill also would appear to be in breach of the Commonwealth-State agreement relating to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. It may be that the Minister for Transport did not consult any of the States who are parties to that agreement because he knew, or believed it possible, that there would be a breach. In that case, rather than have the States tell him in open discussion that they believe that there is a breach of that Commonwealth-State agreement he has chosen to introduce this legislation into this House and to try to get it through quickly simply by use of the weight of numbers on the Government side. Perhaps the Minister can tell the House his opinion as to the validity of the inclusion in this Bill of the provisions which affect off-shore operations. Does the Government consider that the Bill contravenes the CommonwealthState agreement with respect to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act or is it that it does not consider that that Act has any operation because it believes that the Seas and Submerged Lands Act is invalid? 
It is a serious matter for the States to believe that there is a breach of a Commonwealth-State agreement and to find the Minister introducing this Bill without consultation with them. If ever we are to have a spirit of co-operative federalism within Australia there must be the fullest and frankest consultation and discussion with the States whenever the Commonwealth proposes to introduce legislation which is going to affect the powers and the authority of the States under their own legislation or, more particularly, legislation to which they are a party with the Commonwealth. 
It is indicative,  Mr Speaker,  of the lack of concern that the Commonwealth has for its relations with the States that it has chosen to proceed in a manner which could well be in breach of the Commonwealth-State agreement and without consultation with the States. Naturally enough the States are concerned at the impact of these proposed provisions on their powers and authority under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. Naturally they would have preferred the Minister to consult them. They ask now that at least in respect of these provisions the Government delay proceeding with them through this House for but a short time so that the States may have consultations with the Government. That is not an unreasonable request. I am sure that the States would be prepared to co-operate fully with the Minister to see that a sensible code applies to off-shore operations in the exploration and exploitation of natural resources. 
What are the States to do about their power and authority under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act? Are they to continue applying it in respect of these structures as if that legislation is valid? There is no reason to suggest that it is not valid. This Government has never chosen to repeal that legislation. It has allowed it to continue on the statute book. It certainly has not cooperated with the States in oil and gas exploration and production. Nevertheless it has allowed that legislation to continue on the statute book. So what are the States to do? After this Bill has passed through this House and another place does the Minister propose to advise the States what their position will be? If that is the intention of the Minister perhaps he would be good enough to show courtesy to this House and tell us, not in detail, what will be the nature of that advice. 
These are not merely incidental matters. This Bill is not a trivial piece of legislation. It is very important to the efficient and effective continuance of off-shore operations with respect to the exploration and exploitation of natural resources. It can have the most serious financial implications for operators in a field which we already know is a high risk area. It is not something that ought to be treated as lightly as it has been treated by the Minister. I have indicated that there are many questions remaining unanswered about these provisions and I ask the Minister to show the House the courtesy of dealing with them. 
-I welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate on legal aid in order to lay low some of the ghosts that have been raised by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and also to display further the concern of the Opposition with legal aid as a vital function of community service within Australia. Many times, at question time and in debate in this House, we have heard the Attorney-General try to condemn the Opposition because it dared to criticise his piece of legislation and the proposal to create the Australian Legal Aid Office. In a very neat case of logical gymnastics the learned Attorney-General has said of the Opposition that it opposes the Australian Legal Aid Office; it opposes legal aid. Of course the one does not follow from the other, but it is a good example of the way in which the AttorneyGeneral enters upon a debate of such importance and magnitude to this Parliament and to the community. 
Simply because the Opposition dares to criticise the Australian Legal Aid Office does not mean, nor by any stretch of the imagination can it mean, that we are opposed to legal aid. The proposition of the honourable gentleman needs only to be re-stated to show its absurdity. As has been pointed out by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  the honourable gentleman might just as well condemn members of his own party in another place who dared to criticise the Government's national compensation scheme in the Senate committee report on the National Compensation Bill. The Opposition does desire an effective, efficient and sound scheme for legal aid throughout Australia. We acknowledge the necessity of involvement by this Parliament at the national level in legal aid alongside and in co-operation with all the legal aid schemes that are operated in the States of Australia through the law societies. 
In this respect I shall speak for a moment of the experience in Western Australia in this field of legal aid. It is another example of where what is condemned by the Government as the disinterest of Opposition members in legal aid, even of our having a positive antagonism towards legal aid, can be shown to be completely wrong. I speak of my own experience as a lawyer involved in legal aid since the late 1950s, at a time in Western Australia when any lawyer who provided legal aid was not paid for it. It was a completely voluntary scheme on behalf of the legal profession, a very small profession at that time which had a vast State, geographically, to cater for. Of course, regrettably it could not cater for all the demands upon the profession. I remember in 1960 attending a meeting of the Law Society of Western Australia in Fremantle when this question was discussed. It was realised then that something had to be done to increase the availability of legal aid to people in the community who could not generally afford the ordinary professional fees. At that meeting of the Law Society in 1960 it was resolved that the Law Society should support a scheme of legal aid broadly based upon that which operated in the United Kingdom. 
There were several principles involved in it: firstly, that the Law Society should sponsor it; secondly, that all members of the profession should be invited to participate and offer their services; thirdly- and probably the most important principle of all- that all persons seeking legal aid should be able to obtain the services of the lawyer of their choice; finally, that the fees payable to lawyers should be discounted to 90 per cent of those fees ordinarily chargeable for the services that were rendered. It was resolved also that the Society would approach the State Government to see if the scheme could be underwritten and also to see if the State Government would support by legislation the lodging of a proportion of solicitors' trust funds into a bank account under the control of a legal trust with interest payable on those funds so that that interest would finance, amongst other things, the legal aid scheme. 
From 1960 until 1967 the Law Society in Western Australia pursued its efforts and reached success with the passage in that year of the Legal Contribution Trust Act which gave legislative approval to all that the Law Society had required and desired for legal aid in 1960. The scheme underwritten by that statute came into force in 1 97 1 and it has continued to operate since then. All those principles that I previously mentioned were written into the Legal Contribution Trust Act. I think that the Law Society, all those pioneering lawyers in Western Australia and those who now work within the legal aid scheme can be proud of what they have done and can be proud of what they have achieved. That achievement has been acknowledged by Professor Ronald Sackville in his report to the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty which dealt with the availability of legal aid in Australia. I note that when speaking of the Western Australia scheme, Professor Sackville said: 
The scheme as it now operates is thus of recent origin. But the profession in Western Australia has a strong tradition of public service and many extensions and improvements are currently proposed. 
I am glad to see that Professor Sackville has acknowledged that strong tradition of public service within the legal profession in Western Australia. It seems so often from what is said by the Attorney-General, in debating in this House and outside it the merits of legal aid, that law societies such as the Law Society in Western Australia have achieved nothing in their efforts to bring the law to those people who are otherwise unable to afford the services of a lawyer. There can be no question that the provision of legal aid is a matter of continuing concern, a matter of continuing necessity. 
If I could make one criticism of the profession of which I am a member it is this: During the period of tremendous growth in Australia in the 1960s, and particularly in Western Australia, when the demands upon a very small profession were great to the point where the profession's services were stretched not only to the limit but beyond, when we had a tremendous growth in the demand for legal services from corporations and wealthier persons within the community, the profession tended to forget that there were people who needed legal aid or who needed legal services who were not able to afford the fees that were so easily paid by corporations and others. So the tendency was for the person who did not have the ready money available to him to be put aside, whilst those who had the money were given the services that they required. I think this has probably accentuated the urgency of the need for governments to enter this field. I do not deny the necessity for governments to enter the field of legal aid, nor does the Opposition deny that. What the Opposition seeks to do is to have provided by this Parliament the most effective and the most efficient system of legal aid supported at the national level. 
I again draw the attention of the House to the terms of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Bennelong on behalf of the Opposition. It seeks to insert the following words:  the Bill be referred to a joint select committee of both Houses to inquire into and report upon: 
It then lists a number of matters. The first is:  the adequacy  of  existing legal aid services is Australia; 
Surely one needs to test the adequacy of what is already there in order to determine whether what is to be provided under the Legal Aid Bill is the most effective system of legal aid at the national level. The second matter is:  whether the provision made in the Bill is the most effective, efficient and economical method of providing legal advice and assistance; 
In these times particularly it ought to be abundantly clear to everyone that legal aid should not be a bottomless economic pit. We do not want a repetition of Medibank in that regard. Some restraints and constraints must be placed upon it. The third matter is: which persons should be entitled to legal aid and what should be the basis on which advice and assistance is provided; 
Surely it is necessary, if there is to be an effective and efficient system of legal aid at the national level, that there should be the closest study by this Parliament of the persons who should be entitled to legal aid and what should be the basis on which advice and assistance are provided. The fourth matter is: whether proper protection of the individual's right to obtain independent and confidential legal advice and assistance is provided for in existing legal aid arrangements and under the Bill; 
Whilst the other matters I have referred to might cover the aspects of economics and adequacy of legal aid in other systems, what is fundamental to any scheme which provides legal services to the citizens of Australia is the right of citizens to competent, independent and confidential legal advice and assistance. In this regard I would luce to compare the Western Australian Legal Trust Act with the present Bill. In section 40 of the Western Australian Act an assisted person 's right to choose his own legal practitioner is provided by statute. I think this is something that ought to be provided by statute and it ought to be a basic principle of any legal aid scheme. When I look at clause 32 of the Legal Aid Bill now under debate I find that, rather than a statutory declaration of the right of choice of an assisted person to an independent practitioner, all that is provided is that the preference expressed by the assisted person will be taken into account by the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Office will then allocate a legal practitioner to that assisted person. A right of choice is not given by statute to an assisted person to choose his own independent practitioner. Allocation by the Legal Aid Office is not a choice that is expressed by the citizen. I consider that to be one of the most serious defects in this Bill. If the Government is not prepared voluntarily to alter it following the criticisms levelled against it by the Opposition there is all the more reason why there should be a joint committee of this House and the Senate set up to investigate the Legal Aid Bill. 
There has been- since 1971 in particular- in the institution of the legal aid scheme in Western Australia under the Legal Trust Act considerable growth in legal aid through participation by the State Government, the Federal Government and the legal profession. Last year $50,000 was provided by the State Government, $ 164,4 1 8 by the Federal Government and $282,252 by way of interest on the trust accounts of solicitors- in effect, a contribution made by the banks of Australia and through the banks to the people of 
Western Australia. Finally, an assessed amount of $31,000 represented the value of the discounted fees charged by the legal profession. That is an example of the co-operation being shown by all persons concerned with and involved in legal aid in giving to the people of Western Australia an effective system of legal aid. But the Law Society has not simply stood still. Having regard to the particular problems of bringing legal aid to all people in Western Australia, the law Society has sponsored a number of schemes. I mention them. They are: Rostered lawyers in police courts to help defendants in need; a flying lawyer service to remote parts of the State; a prisoners' advice service; and a legal advice service where anyone can get initial advice for a fee of only $2. So Western Australia has everything to be proud of. 
The Attorney-General might well consider an article which appeared in the  West Australian  of Friday, 10 October 1975, about a lawyer whom I know very well, Peter Dowding, who obtained a Churchill Fellowship to look at legal aid schemes in Canada and Britain. He has written his report and it has been summarised in the article in the  West Australian  of that date. Peter Dowding 's name might be well known to the AttorneyGeneral. I would like to draw to his attention and to the attention of the House what  Mr Dowding  said about the Australian Legal Aid Office. As the article points out,  Mr Dowding  ended his report with a broadside at the Office. The article states: 
He says that to many lawyers the opening of the office was a most encouraging development- but its 18 months or so of operation had produced disillusionment among many of those who were formerly enthusiastic. 
Far from providing decentralised law officers with feeling and concern for the community in which it operates, it has become a monolithic body whose decisions on priorities, staffing and accommodation are taken in Canberra , he says. 
It has tried to compete with, or ignore, the already established legal aid schemes rather than to complement those schemes. 
I think that is a most damning criticism of the Australian Legal Aid Office which is intended to be established by this Bill. Far from reflecting the storefront lawyers' image which the Attorney-General so often throws at all of us who comment upon legal aid, the legal aid offices in Perth, said  Mr Dowding,  'show the opulence of a Government department with unlimited funds, and present therefore a forbidding appearance to the poor and deprived people in the community'. I suggest that the Opposition, through the speeches made on this side of the House, has presented a compelling case for a joint committee of this House and the Senate to consider the Bill put forward by the Government. 
The  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to speak particularly on clause 6 because it does raise very directly a matter referred to in the Opposition's amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. One of the matters which we sought to have referred to a joint select committee, that is a committee made up of members from both sides of this place and the other place, was the extent of duplication in the provision of legal advice and assistance throughout Australia and the means by which unnecessary duplication can be avoided. When we look at clause 6 we see immediately that not only will there be duplication and overlapping but also there will quite positively be confusion. I can think of innumerable examples where confusion will arise and where in a sense- and I speak in legal terminologythere will be a conflict of jurisdiction. The State legal aid schemes at present are comprehensive schemes that are unlimited in their application. Legal aid may be given to a person seeking assistance whether the legal matter arises under State law or Federal law. However, because of the constitutional limitations of this Parliament, clause 6 of the Bill must limit the granting of legal aid by the Australian Legal Aid Office to matters which come within the lawmaking powers of the Commonwealth or to matters incidental to those powers. That is how clause 6 is expressed. 
What happens, might I ask the learned Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  when a person seeking assistance is confronted with a legal matter involving both State and Commonwealth law and that person does not fall within the particular class of persons comprehended by Commonwealth law- for example, pensioners, migrants and the like? What happens when the person seeking assistance does not fall within one of those classes? Let me give an example. It is within the constitutional power of this Parliament to make laws with respect to banking. If a customer of a bank is sued by a bank for a debt, the debt being an overdraft which has not been paid, and the customer believes he has a claim against the bank for common law negligence quite unrelated to any banking power exercised by the Commonwealth, will that person have to go into the Australian Legal Aid Office and have his application approved by it and then have to go to a State scheme and obtain legal aid for his counter claim against the bank? That seems to be the clear implication of the operation of clause 6. If, however, that person went, for example, to the Law Society of Western Australia and qualified for legal aid under its scheme, no obligation about conflict of jurisdiction would arise. Aid can be granted by the Law Society of Western Australia without qualification and difficulty. 
I will give another example relating to an ordinary builder. The person for whom a job is done gives a cheque to the builder in payment. He then makes an inspection of the work done, is dissatisfied with it and stops payment of the cheque. The builder then sues under the Bills of Exchange Act. The person for whom the job was done then sues for negligence, for bad workmanship. That counter claim for damages for bad workmanship would not be a matter coming within any law of the Commonwealth. The person concerned, the home owner, might then go to the Australian Legal Aid Office and qualify for assistance in defending the action relating to the cheque but not for legal aid to support his claim against the builder for damages for breach of contract. What does that home owner have to do- go down the street and apply again to the Law Society of Western Australia? 
These simple examples highlight one of the matters that the Opposition sought to be investigated by a joint committee of the 2 Houses of Parliament. How does the Attorney-General rationalise that situation so as to provide a truly comprehensive legal aid scheme throughout the Commonwealth, funded by the Commonwealth, by the State governments, by the profession and by trust accounts. Again I instance, as I indicated in my speech during the second reading debate on this Bill, the situation in Western Australia through the Legal Contribution Trust Act. It is no good the honourable and learned AttorneyGeneral condemning and criticising the Opposition for making a point such as that and then going on to say, in the most illogical manner, that therefore the Opposition is against legal aid. The truth,  Mr Chairman,  is that the Opposition is for a comprehensive national legal aid scheme which is efficient, effective and economical. We believe that such a scheme can be introduced in co-operation with the States, building upon the firm foundation already created over years of experience through the schemes introduced by the States and by the law societies, representing the profession. I make a comment which relates to clause 6, sub-clause (2). It speaks of the provision of legal assistance and states: 
. by making available the services of members of the Office or by arranging for the services of private legal practitioners . . . 
That leaves it completely open for the Government to decide, as a matter of policy, that legal aid would be provided predominantly by the services of members of the Office. There is no restraint in this Bill to require the Government to use predominantly the services of private practitioners, thus giving to people seeking assistance a right of choice of private practitioner. What is available to a government is the opportunity to bureaucratise legal aid. The Opposition sees that as something which would be bad for people who require legal aid. There can be nothing worse than the growth of a bureaucracy in this field; for people who seek legal aid, who seek to obtain justice as they see it, to be dependent upon a bureaucratic service of legal aid. Yet, as I say, there is nothing in this Bill to limit the discretion of a government to implement, as a matter of policy, a salaried legal service for legal aid. I ask the Attorney-General: Why is that? What is the policy of this Government with regard to the bureaucratisation of legal aid through a massive, centralised Australian Legal Aid Office. 
It is all very well for the Attorney-General in his second reading speech to speak of providing a better and more rational approach to the need for Federal grants to assist legal aid schemes conducted by State governments. Of course, the constitutional doubt over the validity of this legislation can be easily avoided by the Government, as the Attorney-General knows, by the making of grants under section 96 to the States in order to build upon that foundation to which I have already referred of the legal aid services provided by the States in co-operation with the law societies in each State. In that way the fear of bureaucratisation about which the Opposition is concerned can be avoided. That is one of the matters which we sought to have investigated by a joint committee of the 2 Houses. 
I wish to express some concern at what the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has said. He has made no clearer the Government's attitude towards the role of the Board and whether it is to be independent of government to spend the funds appropriated to it in the way in which the Board considers appropriate, or whether the Board will be controlled by the Government and if so to what extent in the way in which it spends the funds appropriated to it. If the Board is to function with any sort of efficiency it must know where it stands. It is all very well for the Attorney-General to go on as he so often does, using words and more words without explaining to us just what the Government's intention is. It is a very easy and convenient argument- again it is one which the AttorneyGeneral always uses- to make lawyers the chopping block and to accuse the Opposition of having vested interests and not being concerned about the needs of those who. require legal assistance. 
There really comes the time when the honourable gentleman cries 'wolf once too often. I think that time has come. However much he might try to twist and turn the words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Greenwood),  he cannot escape the statements of the Opposition with regard to its attitude towards legal aid. I think we will find that the more we get into the body of this Bill, the more deficient will be the Attorney-General's explanations of its content and the more inadequate will be displayed the understanding of the Attorney-General as to what he is about. He has said that the Board may be limited by the funds it receives appropriated in the overall budgetary context. I remind the honourable gentleman that justice is never cheap. Everybody claims justice for himself. One has only to be involved in a court case, being counsel for one or other of the litigants, to see that to exactly the same extent as the plaintiff claims that justice is on his side so the defendant claims that justice is on his side also. 
Justice is never cheap but the opportunity to obtain justice, according to the litigants or the persons caused, must be made available to them. If a board is constituted which does not know whether the policy which it determines for the spending of money appropriated to it will be overturned tomorrow by the government what independence of action does that board have? How effectively can it fulfil the functions given to it by the legislation? Nothing that the AttorneyGeneral has said in explanation has alleviated our concern as to just what will be the true role and function of the Board, even with these words added to give it some responsibility with regard to matters of policy. I think even though we are in Committee honourable members deserve a further and certainly a better explanation than we have already received from the AttorneyGeneral. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 1 1. 
1 ) The Board shall consist of- 
a Chairman; 
the National Director; and 
c) one other member. 
The members of the Board other than the National Director shall be appointed by the Governor-General and shall be so appointed to hold office on a part-time basis. 
I really wonder how long this Committee has to continue to hear the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  say things like, 'I do not think I need to add anything to what I said before'. This is a very important Bill. I would have thought that this Committee deserved a better explanation from the honourable gentleman about an amendment that he proposes on a matter which is at the heart of the operation of the legal aid scheme which the Government proposes. I hope that as we go through this Bill with the innumerable important clauses that we have to consider in Committee we will not have the Attorney-General continuing to say that he does not think he needs to add anything. 
This amendment is of fundamental importance to the whole operation of the scheme. What is to be the function and the power of the Board with respect to policy? As the amendment is proposed, the Board may be overruled by the Governor-General. As we know, many constitutional matters have been raised in recent days. Perhaps the Opposition ought to remind the honourable gentleman that the GovernorGeneral acts upon the advice of the Government of the day. No doubt, if the Attorney-General is in disagreement with the Board, he will report to the Cabinet and the Cabinet will advise the Governor-General to act in accordance with the Attorney-General's recommendation. 
What sort of position are members of the Board to be placed in when they, with their expertness- I would hope that they would be appointed because of their expertness in this field of legal aid- come into direct conflict with the Government? If the Opposition proposals advanced by the honourable member for Bennelong were accepted, the Board would be independent with regard to the policy that it pursues within the framework of the Act and to the limit of the funds that are provided to it. So there would be no clash between the Government and the Board. But no, the Attorney-General, in his wisdom, believes that he ought to have the overriding power with respect to the policy of the Board. I would have thought that the purpose of the legislation is to express adequately within its terms what the policy of the Government is so as to provide not only the means of administration of the scheme but also an expression of the purpose of the Government's proposals. Then within that purpose and within the powers that are granted to the Board by the legislation the Board can operate to give the kind of legal aid which the Government considers appropriate. 
Again I refer to what the honourable member for Bennelong has said. He said that in other countries seeking to provide legal aid to persons in need it has been found that the most effective manner of giving that legal aid is through an agency of the Government which is independent. The Government's function, once having established the agency and expressed its purpose in the legislation creating it, is to provide funds for the agency so that the agency can go about its business. But this Government, as we see so often in so many fields, wants to keep all the strings in its own hands. It wants to be able to tell the Board of its own creation what to do. What does the Government fear of the Board, of the members of the Board which it will appoint? Does the Government not have any trust in the members of the Board which it appoints? What are the fears that it has, and why? Again I refer to what the honourable member for Bennelong has" pointed out. Professor Sackville in his report recommended that the provision of legal aid at a national level should be by way of an independent board able to provide legal aid where there is need, and that such a board should be funded as required by the Government. 
So I again express the hope that as we go through this Bill looking at different clauses which are of great significance we will not find the Attorney-General just flippantly saying to the Committee: 'I do not think I need to add anything'. I rather venture to suggest that as we go on it will become abundantly clear that the Attorney-General has not got anything to add because he really does not know the great problems that are being created by his own legislation. 
I again draw the attention of the Committee to one of the terms of reference sought by the Opposition in regard to the establishment of a joint select committee- a committee of both Houses of the Parliament- that is, an examination of the clauses of the Bill. This is a very good illustration of the kind of thing that such a joint select committee could investigate. It could come up with a firm recommendation to the Parliament that the Board should be independent or that in some respects the Government should have power to override the Board in the policy that it wants to pursue. If legal aid is to function effectively, efficiently and economically through the Board which the Government creates then the Government must have confidence in the members that it appoints to that Board and if it has confidence in the capacity of those members then surely it ought to have sufficient confidence in their ability to determine the appropriate policy to give effect to a legal aid scheme at the national level. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 14 to 16- by leave- taken together. 
I wish to support the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  in expressing the Opposition's disappointment that the functions of the Commission are to be only advisory and that it is not to have any executive function. I think there needs to be an explanation in Committee by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  concerning the relationship of the functions of the Commission to the functions of the Board and of the Office. There ought to be a relationship between the functions of the Board with respect to matters of policy and the functions of the Commission with respect to those matters which are outlined in clause 17. For example, the first function is expressed to be the ascertainment and review of the extent of the need for legal assistance in Australia and the making of recommendations from time to time to the Attorney-General as to the most effective, economical and desirable means of satisfying that need. 
As I perceive the matter, in considering matters of policy the Board could cover the same field because if the Board is to manage the affairs of the Office in a way which will give effective, economical and desirable legal assistance to people in need, it must consider the whole range of ways and means of providing legal aid to those people. It must consider policy as well as administration. It will therefore necessarily be covering the same ground as the Commission. I ask the Attorney-General to explain to the Committee what will be the relationship between the 2 bodies. Is there to be any overlap? How will they relate to each other? 
I also point out to the Committee that there is within the provisions of clause 17 the seeds of difficulty, if not confrontation, between the Commission and the Board particularly having regard to the matter we have already discussed, that is, the power of the Attorney-General through his Government and the GovernorGeneral to override the views of the Board on matters of policy. If the Commission is to make recommendations to the Attorney-General which differ from the views of the Board I can perceive the situation where the Board and the Commission will come into conflict. That, of course, would be undesirable. The AttorneyGeneral may say that he in his office can resolve the conflict. He may well be the arbiter of the conflict. However, it would seem that if he is to be the arbiter he must be a biased arbiter because he would almost necessarily have to override the Board and favour the Commission. 
My assertion could be answered by someone saying that the Attorney-General would override the Commission and accept the views of the Board. That simply points up the problem I see in the future relationship between the functions of the Commission and of the Board. If this were thought through it would be seen that the recommendations of the Opposition and of Professor Sackville and of the Law Council of Australia that the Commission has an executive function would be far the most preferable role for the Commission to play. That would necessarily mean amending the functions of the Board particularly on policy matters and, having regard to the matters which both the honourable member for Bennelong and I have referred to in this debate, highlights the fact that there is a grave need for this Bill to be referred to a joint select committee of the 2 Houses. 
One question that could be critically examined by such a committee is: What are the most efficient and effective roles for the Commission, the Board and the Office? Here I would have thought that the skills that could be brought to bear on a committee of members of both Houses, which would receive the advice of and the benefit of the critical examination of persons called before the committee, would be welcomed by the Government. However, regrettably the Attorney-General just casts it aside with that flippant argument he uses constantly and in a most illogical manner that because the Opposition seeks to be critical of the Bill we are against legal aid. It may be that the only retort, let alone reply, from the Attorney-General will be: I have nothing more to add. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 18 agreed to. 
Clause 19. 
1 ) The Commission shall furnish to the Attorney-General such reports as the Attorney-General requires. 
-I will not canvass the area already covered by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  in speaking about practising certificates. It is a very important matter; it is a very delicate matter as well. It is hard to understand why as a matter of policy the Government should require that officers of the Australian Legal Aid Office have practising certificates but not be prepared to make it a legislative requirement. It is hard to understand if it is good enough as a matter of policy why it is not good enough as a matter of legislation. 
I do want to raise a matter which I think can throw very grave doubt upon the effectiveness of clause 26 of the Bill and that is the constitutional validity of this clause. I refer particularly to subclause (2) which provides: 
Subject to sub-section (4), a statutory member of the Office is entitled to practise as a solicitor, and to perform the functions of a solicitor, in any State or Territory and in any federal court and in any court of the State or Territory and has a right of audience in any federal court and any court of a State or Territory. 
There can be no question about the constitutional validity of that provision with regard to federal courts or courts in a territory. But I do seriously question the constitutional validity of it with respect to courts of a State. I do so because legislative power with respect to persons who may practise in courts in a State and those who have the right of audience in a court of a State is exclusively the jurisdiction of a State parliament. There is just no question about that. It is exclusively the prerogative of a State parliament. 
Clause 26 would seek to assert that the Commonwealth by virtue of exercising a legislative power with respect to legal aid can thereby go on to provide that officers of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Office by virtue of that fact may practise as a solicitor and have a right of audience. To some extent that problem is overcome by subsection (4) which does require that an officer of the Legal Aid Office comply with the requirements of the law of a State relating to admission and enrolment as a solicitor or a barrister and a solicitor. Nevertheless the presumption under clause 26 is that the Commonwealth can assert the power to declare a person who is not otherwise eligible to practise as a solicitor in a State or to have the right of audience before the court of a State notwithstanding the law of that State. States require not only that a person be admitted or enrolled to practise as a barrister or as a solicitor but also that he should have a practising certificate. This clause declares that it has effect notwithstanding the laws of a State regarding practice certificates. 
Why is it that the Government might consider it necessary as a matter of policy that practitioners who are members of the Legal Aid Office should have a practising certificate but do not require it as a matter of statute? It seems to me,  Mr Chairman,  that it comes back to this assertion of a constitutional power in the Commonwealth to be able to declare, notwithstanding the law of a State, that a person employed under Commonwealth law can practise as a solicitor. With regard to that constitutional proposition I think there is grave doubt about it. I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby):  Why is it that the Commonwealth even wishes to assert that power? Why is it that it does not make a very simple legislative requirement that those officers of the Legal Aid Office employed in a State shall be enrolled and shall be eligible to practise in the courts of that State? If they are not they cannot practise as solicitors or as officers of the Legal Aid Office. That is a simple situation. 
All that the honourable gentleman does in putting forward a clause of this kind is to complicate the question. It might be said: 'Well, in practice, nobody is going to question the matter.' But some day someone will. Then we will be in a great deal of trouble. We will not only have the  Bannister  case to fight in the High Court but we will have theSmith case, the  Jones  case and other cases. As I perceive it, we will be letting ourselves in for a whole new world of litigation. This situation can be easily overcome. Why does not the Government as a simple matter require that all officers practising as solicitors employed by the Legal Aid Office must be admitted or enrolled in the State in which they are going to be employed and must be eligible according to the laws of the State to practise as solicitors? 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 27 agreed to. 
Clause 28. 
1 ) An application for legal assistance under this Act shall be decided by an appropriate member of the Office in accordance with arrangements made or approved by the National Director. 
I think this is another example of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  saying: 'I have nothing more to add to the wording of the amendment'. Really, that is all that the honourable member did in introducing it. I admit that he went a little further than so many of his ministerial colleagues who simply say: 'I move the amendment standing in my name'. However, that does not tell us very much about why the Government is amending its Bill. What new information has it obtained which has caused it to change its mind? What new considerations have been brought to bear in order to compel it it amend its own Bill? The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has pointed this up very well in referring to the proposed amendment to sub-clause (4) of clause 29 which relates to matters of public importance and matters affecting the protection, maintenance or preservation of the natural or cultural environment of Australia. I ask the AttorneyGeneral for some examples of the deficiencies in the provisions of the Bill and of the benefits in the amendment which has now been introduced. What has the Government discovered since it introduced the Bill which has caused it to withdraw completely the original clause and to put forward a new one? 
I think the Government, through the Attorney-General, ought to follow the precept that, generally speaking, good government is government by legislation; bad government is government by regulation and that is what the Attorney-General proposes to adopt in the amendment which he has moved. The regulations will prescribe the circumstances where it is considered that legal assistance ought to be given in matters of public importance or matters affecting the environment and culture. Will the AttorneyGeneral be good enough to give the Committee the benefit of his knowledge as to what criteria will be included in the regulation? I should have thought that before the Committee can approve the amendment it will need an indication of what the criteria will be because, as we know so well, the regulations will control the benefit conferred by this amendment. The criteria expressed in the regulations may limit or expand the availability of legal assistance to persons who want it. 
It is not a mean request to make of the Attorney-General to ask what the criteria will be in the regulations. Maybe we will simply get the answer from the honourable gentleman that he has nothing more to add. That is another very good reason why the whole Bill should be referred to a joint select committee. The committee could examine the full implications of this amendment to see whether it is better for the criteria to be expressed in legislation rather than in regulations. The Opposition does not deny that there is an important area of need in matters of public importance. However, that may be gauged by the day, according to circumstances or events at the time, or in matters of natural or cultural environment. We do not deny that there is a need for legal assistance in those areas. Examples occur every day. Groups within the community concerned about the impact of an export industry or of the construction of highways on the environment may wish to bring either an individual or a collective action to try to control the damage which will be done, as they see it, by such an industry or by such a thing as a highway. There are ready made examples in every State. 
We have Fraser Island in Queensland. We have the wood chip industry in New South Wales and Western Australia. We have highways being driven in places all the time which the local community does not desire. These are ready made situations where the community may need legal assistance because, collectively, it cannot provide the necessary funds to fight an action which maybe has to go right to the High Court. 
Another matter to which I wish to draw the attention of the Committee is contained in subclause ( 1 ) of clause 29 which deals with the eligibility of a person for legal assistance. Some words of uncertain application are used in that sub-clause, maybe necessarily uncertain but nevertheless uncertain. For example, a person can receive legal assistance if and only if he is in need of legal assistance because his financial or other circumstances place him at a disadvantage in obtaining legal advice. What kind of circumstances other than financial would make a person eligible to receive legal assistance? What disadvantage is it that the Government has in contemplation which would have to exist before a person finds himself eligible for legal assistance. 
We know also, only too well, that the criteria of eligibility for legal assistance, a means test if you like, or a circumstance test, if I may pick up the language of the Bill, will determine the extent of the funding that will be required from the Government. It will determine whether or not legal aid in Australia is to become a bottomless pit, like Medibank, or is to be controlled in some way by the Government. We know also that Australia at the present time is facing a Budget deficit of $2, 800m. It is estimated, on the most reliable estimation, according to the published figures of the Government up to now, that that Budget deficit is likely to finish up at $3,500,000 and may well go further. If we have, as well as Medibank, a bottomless pit of legal aid, how high will that Budget deficit go? We have heard examples in debate of what has happened in Britain. There has been a doubling and even a trebling of legal aid in Britain in a matter of a few years. Is that the prospect with which Australia is to be faced? I think there is only one answer to that question. If this legal aid scheme is to be administered as it is proposed by this Government Australia will be facing a bottomless pit in legal aid similar to that which it is facing in respect of Medibank. We know that there are people in need of legal aid. However much we may desire to provide all people in need with legal aid, nevertheless there are always economic constraints upon us. And that is one of the realities which the Opposition would like a joint select committee of this House and of the Senate to consider. 
I refer again to the motion moved by the Opposition for the appointment of that joint select committee. One of the terms of reference we sought to have included was that the committee should inquire into and report upon which persons should be entitled to legal aid and what should be the basis upon which advice and assistance is provided. That is a proper matter of inquiry. We have heard nothing from the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  either at the second reading stage or during the debate on this clause to give the Opposition any confidence that the Government will seek to provide proper legal assistance to people who are truly in need in a way which is economic and efficient. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 30 agreed to. 
Clause 3 1 . 
The National Director shall, from time to time, make known to the public, in such manner as he considers appropriate, the circumstances in which legally assisted persons will be required to make payments to the Office in accordance with this section and the nature and extent of the payments that will be required to be made. 
-Clause 32 is one which ought to give the Committee serious concern. I referred to it in my speech at the second reading stage, and I think it deserves the close examination of this Committee. Firstly, it enables to be prepared lists of private legal practitioners who are willing to act as barristers or solicitors on behalf of legally assisted persons, with regard to a particular class of matter in particular courts or in particular localities. That is something which is generally done in most if not all legal aid schemes administered by law societies in each of the States. Legal practitioners can place their names on the list according to the areas of law in which they work, according to their availability and to their general desire to participate in a legal aid scheme. But my experience in Western Australia is that most members of the profession, particularly those on the litigious side of the profession, do readily put their names on a list or a panel. That provision of the clause is therefore unexceptional and admirable in itself. 
However, it is the next part of the clause which I think ought to give the Committee great concern, because it does not give to a person receiving legal assistance a statutory right to choose his or her legal practitioner. I contrast this clause with section 40 of the Western Australian Legal Contribution Trust Act which gives a clear right of choice to a person receiving legal aid to have a practitioner of his choice. This clause, however, simply allows a legally assisted person to express his preference. Surely that is a totally inadequate statutory right. Why does the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  want to retain in the hands of the officers of the Legal Aid Office the right to say to Bill Smith or Phyllis Jones: 'You cannot have the lawyer that you prefer. I am going to send you off to someone else'. What paternalism is involved in that concept? I have heard the AttorneyGeneral so many times in this chamber condemn what he has regarded as paternalism on the part of the Opposition. Why is the Attorney-General so paternalistic? Why does he deny to a person who wants legal advice the ability to make his own choice rather than expressing his preference? 
Furthermore, the evil, if what is contained in this clause might be described in terms as strong as that, is compounded by giving to the Legal Aid Office the authority to allocate the work, which comes into the Office and which is concerned with legally assisted persons, to barristers or solicitors who are on the list. Again the concept of allocation has an inbuilt element of paternalism. Knowing very well the people involved in the legal profession, I have no doubt that, in a spirit of co-operation, they will be prepared to take the work which is allocated to them. But surely we are not concerned with that side of the equation. What we are concerned with is the right of the person who is seeking legal assistance. 
If there is one thing that is fundamental in our democracy, in our system of British justice, in our understanding of the common law rights of the citizen, it is that each citizen not only should have the opportunity to receive the services of the law but also should have the right to obtain the services of the lawyer of his choice, who is independent of everyone- government and individuals. Thereby the law, through the lawyer who provides the services, may stand as a bulwark between the government and the citizen or, in litigation or conflict between citizens, may stand up for the rights of one citizen against another before the independent courts of the land. I see this as fundamental to any legal aid scheme, whether it be State or national. I am pleased to see that in Western Australia this right of choice is given statutory recognition- but not by this Government in our national Parliament. I repeat that this is a clause which would obviously receive the closest scrutiny by a joint select committee of the House of Representatives and the Senate if the Attorney-General had only conceded the value of such scrutiny as proposed by the Opposition. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 33. 
Where any moneys (being wholly or partly moneys recovered in respect of costs) are recovered by a legally assisted person (whether in a proceeding or by virtue of a settlement or compromise), the person is liable to pay to the Office the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the moneys as is recovered in respect of costs any amount or amounts paid by the person to the Office under section 3 1 in relation to the legal assistance, and the amount that a person is so liable to pay is recoverable by the Office by action in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due and payable to the Office. 
-Clause 72 of the Bill, referring to the Legal Aid Office, states: 
The Office shall indemnify a member of the Office against any liability incurred by him for any negligent act or omission by him in the course of the performance of his duties or in good faith in the purported performance of those duties. 
By virtue of the provisions of the Act, those duties could involve a member of the Office acting as a solicitor or a barrister for a legally assisted person. The effect of this clause is that a member of the Office when so acting, shall be indemnified by the Office for any negligent act or commission by him in performing those duties. 
I question the reason why that favour should be bestowed upon members of the Legal Office when they are acting as solicitors for legally assisted persons. That provision seems to stand awkwardly alongside, for example, clause 26 of the Bill which authorises a member of the Legal Office to practise as a solicitor in the State where he is employed by the Office and other provisions of the Bill which otherwise seek to place a member of the Legal Aid Office acting as a solicitor in the same role, status and legal standing as a private lawyer who is engaged by the Office to perform legal services for a legally assisted person. That private lawyer going into court or doing other legal work for a legally assisted person, if negligent or otherwise committing some wrongful act in the course of performing his professional duty, is liable at law in damages to the legally assisted person. 
Remember also that under the provisions of the legislation legal assistance may be given to a person, either by a member of the Legal Aid Office or by a private lawyer. When that choice can be made by the Legal Aid Office and the member of the Office chooses to do the legal work himself or herself, why then, in performing professional duties in the same way as those duties would be performed if they were given to a private lawyer, should a member of the Legal Aid Office receive immunity by virtue of clause 72? I do not want to appear harsh upon members of the Legal Aid Office. Some of those who are members of the Office in Western Australia are good professional friends of mine and I should not want them to think that I am seeking to do them harm by suggesting that they should be under the same obligations and liability at law as a private lawyer to whom a legally assisted person is referred. 
I would have thought that equality ought to prevail, that the legal services provided by a member of the Office should carry the same legal responsibility and liability as legal services provided by a private lawyer. I do not think a solicitor who is a member of the Legal Aid Office should be put in the same position, for example, as a Public Servant who may be immune from legal responsibility for negligence or the like in the performance of certain duties. That is not the standing of a solicitor who is a member of the Legal Aid Office. I think this clause requires some explanation by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  There ought to be some good policy reason which caused Government to make this provision in the Bill. I think we ought to hear about it from the Attorney-General. 
I know that as the Opposition has been proceeding through this Committee stage, being critical where criticism of the provisions of the Bill is deserved, the honourable gentleman has been rather huffing and puffing in exasperation as though he wants to hurry the Bill through this chamber- it being now 10 minutes past 10 p.m. Nevertheless, all the matters raised by the Opposition are matters of serious concern. 
Again, clause 72, as is the case with all those clauses we have considered in Committee tonight, would be covered by the terms of the motion moved by the Opposition for the reference of this Bill to a joint select committee of this chamber and the Senate. All these matters that we have referred to and many others as well would receive the critical examination of such a committee. No doubt, it may be exasperating to the Minister to have his Bill put under the microscope. Certainly, it has been exasperating for us to find that he has not been prepared to respond in a way which I think a Bill of this importance deserves. Perhaps if a joint select committee had been established this Parliament would have been better off because the Parliament, through such a committee, would not have been circumscribed by the restraints of a Committee stage debate conducted as it has been by the honourable gentleman. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
Third Reading 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Enderby)-  by leaveread a third time. 

 -Mr Speaker, I second the motion. The daily program is obviously designed to cut out private members - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the honourable member for Stirling be not further heard. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the cost of running: 
a ) Kirribilli House and 
b) the Lodge for each of the last S years. 
What were the main elements in these costs. 
What is the estimated running cost on an annual basis of the projected residence for the Prime Minister in Melbourne. 
How many people have stayed in Kirribilli House in each of the last 3 years. 
5 ) What was the purpose and period of their stay. 
Is the cost of food and liquor at the official residences now borne by the Government, and was it formerly the responsibility of the Prime Minister. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When will he provide an answer to my question No. 3165 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 7 October 1 975. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What customs procedures have been followed for himself, his staff and all those accompanying him on his aircraft on each occasion that he has returned to Australia from an overseas visit. 
Will he give a categorical and absolute undertaking that every person travelling on his aircraft on each occasion went through customs in the ordinary way and that there was no evasion of customs duty. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964-1973 I present the annual report of the Institute of Aboriginal Studies for the year ended 30 June 1975, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971-1973 I present the annual report on migrant education for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
Yes, I am aware of the anomaly which the honourable member has pointed out, and my colleague in another place, the Minister for Education, has undertaken that inquiries will be conducted to see what can be done to remove the anomaly. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report on the activities of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
I move: 
1 ) That a Select Committee be appointed: 
to inquire into the incidence of all forms of specific learning difficulties among Australian children and adults; 
to examine measures that are being taken at the present time to overcome such difficulties; 
to report on the success that present measures are having in alleviating specific learning difficulties; 
to examine the awareness of specific learning difficulties among the community generally and among the medical, health, teaching and social welfare professions in particular; 
to examine the extent to which problems associated with the incidence of specific learning difficulties are being researched in Australia at the present time; ( 0 to examine the social, emotional and other handicaps that individuals with specific learning difficulties suffer; 
to recommend measures that can be taken to heighten community awareness of specific learning difficulties, and 
to recommend action that can be taken by the Federal Government or by the Federal Government in co-operation with State and local governments as well as voluntary organisations to alleviate the difficulties and, in particular, to examine the need for widespread screenings of young children to detect the existence of specific learning symptoms so that adequate remedial programs can be recommended from an early age. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of eight members, five to be nominated by the Prime Minister and three to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the committee the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and to appoint the  Chairman  of each sub-committee who shall have a casting vote only, and refer to any such subcommittee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That members of the committee who are not member of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the committee have power to move from place to place and to sit during any recess. 
That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any recess, sittings or adjournment. . (13) That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
14) That the committee be provided with necessary staff, fatalities and resources. 
) That the committee in selecting particular matters for investigation take account of the investigations of other Parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. 
That the committee report by 25 August 1976 and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to the committee 's Report. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the evidence and records of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties appointed during the Twenty-ninth Parliament. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
Honourable members will remember that this House appointed a Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties during the life of the  Twenty-ninth  Parliament. That Committee had received a great volume of submissions and had held hearings in all the States before Parliament was dissolved. As I understand it, the Committee had almost completed its investigations. It is for the purpose of completing this inquiry that I am moving the resolution before the House now. The terms of reference given in this resolution are the same as those given to the previous Committee. The new Committee is to have access to the papers of its predecessor. A significant addition is the stipulation of 25 August 1976 as the reporting date for the Committee. I am sure honourable members will be as anxious as I am to learn of the Committee's findings. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That a Standing Committee be appointed to inquire into, take evidence and report on: 
the present circumstances of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people and the effect of policies and programs on them, and 
such other matters relating to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people as are referred to it by: 
resolution of the House, or 
reference from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of eight members, five to be nominated by the Prime Minister and three to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the committee the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and to appoint the  Chairman  of each sub-committee who shall have a casting vote only, and refer to any such subcommittee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
10) That members of the committee who are not members of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the committee have power to move from place to place and to sit during any recess. 
That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any recess, sittings or adjournment. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
15) That the committee be provided with necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
16) That the committee in selecting particular matters for investigation take account of the investigations of other Parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. 
17) That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the evidence and records of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs appointed during the Twenty-eighth and Twenty-ninth Parliaments. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
This motion seeks to re-establish a standing committee with terms of reference very similar to those of the original Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs set up in 1973 by the previous administration. It is generally agreed by members of this Parliament and the general public that Aboriginal affairs, dealing with the lives of people requiring special attention within our community, should so far as humanly possible be outside the bounds of political bickering. The present Government, when in opposition, willingly participated in the work of the previous Committee and the passage of this motion will ensure the continuance of a bi-partisan approach to Aboriginal affairs. It will also enhance the expression of public support in the referendum of 1967 when the Federal Government, under the leadership of the late Harold Holt, was entrusted with the paramount responsibility to legislate for Aborigines throughout the country. 
Since the appointment of the first Standing Committee in May 1973, 3 reports have been prepared and submitted on different aspects of Aboriginal life. The first of these- in 1974- was on the  Present Conditions of the Yirrkala People in Northern Territory.  This was concerned largely with the effects of bauxite mining on the Aboriginal people in the area but also dealt with health and education- other matters of direct and personal concern to the community. The second report, published last year, examined the health situation of Aboriginal communities in the Perth, Collie and Gnowangerup areas of Western Australia. The report also covered matters which closely related to health, such as nutritional deficiencies and alcoholism as well as housing and education. 
The third and last report was on the effectiveness of special work projects sponsored by the Government through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. These projects aim to increase the participation of Aborigines in the work force, to provide on-the-job training for unskilled workers, and, importantly, to provide employment opportunities for Aborigines in areas where jobs are scarce. Many of these projects are supervised by local councils and have the double benefit of improving facilities through public works while providing jobs. All these reports have been most valuable to my Department. But I believe their greatest value has been in drawing to the attention of the Commonwealth Parliament actions which can be taken for the Aboriginal people in the closest consultation with them. The fact that the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs is a broadly-based body, cutting through Party affiliations, lends weight to its findings and to its recommendations. 
Aboriginal affairs is a subject on which most people, if not all people in Australia, have some opinion. It is a matter of importance to members of this Parliament. The present Government has acknowledged its responsibility to give new and refreshed meaning to the lives of the Aboriginal people of this country as well as a new sense of involvement in their future. The Committee proposed in this motion will assist in these objectives. Aboriginal Affairs is above all a sensitive issue. It is vital that Parliament be kept fully informed of what is happening in this field. This motion calling for the re-establishment of the Committee indicates the importance which this Government attaches to it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purposes of this Bill are to make special long service leave provisions for those New South Wales and South Australian teachers who were employed in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory respectively in 1973 and who elected to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service before 1 January 1974; to enable provision to be made for the employment of teachers at technical colleges in the Australian Capital Territory and to make other amendments to the legislation arising from the provisions of enactments which have been made since the Teaching Service legislation was last amended. 
In relation to the long service leave conditions for the teachers who transferred from New South Wales and South Australia to the Commonwealth Teaching Service, the effect of the Bill will be to preserve the long service leave conditions which the teachers would have enjoyed under State legislation which was in force immediately prior to their joining the Teaching Service and, where appropriate, treatment of future service as if it were State service for the purpose of that legislation. While preserving the eligibility of the teachers for long service leave in accordance with the conditions which were operative under the appropriate State law at the time they joined the Teaching Service, the Bill permits them to have their long service leave entitlement assessed in accordance with the Australian Employees' Furlough Act, including future amendments to the latter Act. The Bill does not confer any eligibility for any improvements which might be brought about by changes in a State law which came into effect after the teachers concerned had joined the Teaching Service. The benefits which the Bill confers are limited to a particular group whose position was affected by the Australian Government's decision to accept direct responsibility for the provision of primary and secondary education in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory. It is similar to the legislation which was introduced in 1973 by which special superannuation arrangments were made for this group of teachers. 
A second purpose of the Bill is to allow the Commissioner of the Teaching Service to make available teachers to the technical colleges established in the Australian Capital Territory. Within the Australian Capital Territory, technical education has been provided by an arrangement between my Department and the New South Wales Department of Technical Education. In the main, the full time technical teachers employed in the Territory have been employed by the New South Wales Department. As part of the decision that the Commonwealth will itself provide technical and further education in the Australian Capital Territory, the Government has decided that the teaching staff of the technical colleges in the Territory should be employed under the Teaching Service legislation. The Bill makes provision for this by a variation to the definition of an Australian Government school, and by providing that a prescribed authority may be one which is established for a public purpose in accordance with the provisions of an Act, regulations made under an Act or a law of a Territory. 
Other changes introduced by this Bill relate to sections 8, 30 and 37 of the principal Act. These sections are being varied to take into account the provisions incorporated in the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974. Division 5 of Part III is repealed to take into account the provisions of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973. I believe this legislation should be given speedy passage by the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee on Post-Secondary Education in Tasmania, together with a statement by the Minister for Education relating to that report. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the payment of grants to the States for universities in 1976. The Bill is associated with the States Grants (Universities) Amendment Bill 1976, the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill 1976, the States Grants (Advanced Education) Amendment Bill 1976 and the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Amendment Bill 1976, all of which I intend to introduce presently. Rather than take up the time of the House unnecessarily, I propose to speak on the common aspects of all 5 Bills in this statement. 
The previous Government decided that the year 1976 should be treated outside the normal triennial progression and asked the 4 education commissions to recommend separate programs of funding for 1976 within certain guidelines. This Bill and the related ones represent the implementation of the announced decision of the Government in its caretaker capacity in November last that the programs for 1976 approved by the previous Government for universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education should proceed on the basis announced by the previous Government. This undertaking assured the States and the educational institutions concerned of the level of financial support they could expect in 1976 even though the prorogation of the Parliament in November 1975 made it impossible until now to enact legislation appropriating funds for the 1 976 programs. I shall be introducing later in this session a Bill to provide for the announced 1976 program for schools which the Government also undertook to implement. To enable the programs under this Bill and the associated ones to proceed, with effect from the commencement of 1976, the caretaker Government made special interim financial arrangements with the States pending the passing of these Bills early in 1976. The Bills in respect of universities and colleges of advanced education provide for reimbursement of the States where they have made payments under the special interim financial arrangements. This provision was not necessary in the case of technical and further education where existing legislation provides financial assistance to the States until 30 June 1976. 
One change from the usual form of legislation of this kind is that the funds provided under this and the associated Bills generally are appropriated from the Consolidated Revenue Fund but in the case of grants for building programs and equipment purchases, provision has been made for the alternative use of the Loan Fund. The grants approved for these programs by the previous Government were expressed in June 1975 price levels and were on the basis that further grants would be provided to make allowance for subsequent movements in costs. Returning to the States Grants (Universities) Bill 1976, a total of $498m is available to the States for university purposes in respect of the year 1976, of which $447m is for recurrent costs and equipment purchases and $51m for building programs. These amounts make allowance for known movements in costs since June 1975. Further adjustments for cost movements to the end of the year 1976 will be required. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the States Grants (Universities) Act 1972-1975, to adjust the approved program of grants to State universities for the 1973-1975 triennium. The Bill takes account of known variations in costs over and above those which have occurred since the previous adjustments were made in similar legislation enacted in 1975. 
Further adjustments for cost movements to the end of this triennial period will be required as statistical data become available. The Bill also gives effect to a decision of the previous Government not to proceed with projects for which contractual commitments had not been made, by deleting certain building projects and reducing the grants available to others. The Bill compensates the State of Queensland for fire damage to teaching hospital facilities of the University of Queensland at the Royal Brisbane Hospital. The additional funds provided by this Bill total $2 5 m bringing the funds available for State universities for the 1973-75 triennium to $ 1167m. I refer honourable members to my second reading speech on the States Grants (Universities) Bill 1976. My remarks there on interim financial arrangements apply to this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for programs of financial assistance to the States for the funding of advanced education in respect of the year 1976. The Bill provides for grants totalling $296m for expenditure under the recurrent program and $56m for expenditure under the capital program. The recurrent program includes an allowance to cover cost increases since the June quarter 1975. In addition, the Bill provides for recurrent grants on a formula basis to assist in meeting the administrative costs of student residences and affiliated residential colleges of advanced education. The estimated expenditure on these grants in respect on 1976 is $lm. Both the recurrent and capital programs will continue to be supplemented until the end of 1976 in accordance with the established procedures to maintain their values against cost increases. In summary the total program for 1976 amounts to $353m. In the intervening period since the 1976 program was approved by the previous Government, a committee on post-secondary education in Western Australia, headed by Professor P. H. Partridge, has made a report to the State Government recommending that the School of Mines at Kalgoorlie should not continue at the tertiary level and that consequently the Kalgoorlie capital projects listed in Schedule 2 to this Bill under the heading of the Western Australian Institute of Technology ought not to proceed. We will therefore review the future of the projects following consideration by the State Government of the report of this committee. 
I refer honourable members to my second reading speech on the States Grants (Universities) Bill 1976. My remarks there on the background to the funding arrangements for tertiary and technical and further education in 1976 apply to this Bill as do my remarks there on interim financial arrangements. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1972-1975 to adjust the approved program of grants to the States for colleges of advanced education and nongovernment' teachers colleges in the triennium 1973-75. The Bill takes account of variations in costs over and above those which have occurred since previous adjustments were made in similar legislation enacted in 1975. Further adjustments for cost movements to the end of this triennial period will be required as statistical data become available. The Bill also amends the Schedules to show changed names for some colleges and incorporates a number of approved transfers of funds within the recurrent and capital programs provided for under the Act. The additional funds provided by this Bill total $21m, bringing the funds available for colleges of advanced education for the 1973-75 triennium to $743m. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to amend the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974 so as to extend its period of operation from the present termination date of 30 June 1976 to 31 December 1976, and to provide additional funds to the States for the extended period. There have been some adjustments made to the grants to 30 June 1976 under existing legislation, involving an increase of $1.9m for recurrent expenditure and the deferment of $8.3 m for capital expenditure. For the period 1 July 1976 to 31 December 1976, $12.5m is available for recurrent expenditure and $ 1 7m is available for capital expenditure. The net effect of these measures is to vary the total funds available to the States from $ 107.8m over 2 years to $ 131m over  2Vi  years. With the concurrence of honourable members, I shall have incorporated in  Hansard  a table summarising the various grants which are payable over the 2Vi-year period to the end of 1976, as set out in the Schedules to the Bill and, in relation to unallocated grants, in the principal Act. 
1 will present to Parliament later in the session, a statement on payments made in the 1974-75 financial year under the existing legislation. I refer honourable members to my second reading speech on the States Grants (Universities) Bill 1976. My remarks there concerning the background to the Government's decisions on the 1976 education programs apply to this Bill. 
In considering amendments to the principal Act, the Government has sought to make only the minimal changes necessary to implement the 1976 programs in technical and further education. Section 13(c) of the Act gives the Minister powers to require information from the States as a condition of grants for recurrent expenditure. However, I can assure honourable members that information sought under this section would be limited to reasonable requests. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The numbers of students completing under-graduate medical courses in Australian universities in 1974 and 1975 are set out in the following table: 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The numbers of students completing undergraduate dental courses in Australian universities in 1974 and 1975 are set out in the following table: 
There has been quite a considerable increase in the provision of child migrant education since the scheme was first introduced in 1970. 1 could indicate this by referring to some statistics of the growth since then. At June 1970 246 special teachers were employed, 8800 children were receiving instruction and 200 schools were involved in the program. At December 1975 the number of special teachers had increased to 2197 the number of children in special classes was 92 600 and 1278 schools were involved in the program. There has been a development towards not treating child migrant education as a special matter. Rather it is regarded as a part of a total education program. 
This has been the emerging pattern and is to be continued. 
The honourable gentleman referred to refugees from Indo-China. Special arrangements are being made to cater not only for children but also for adults. So at the places where the families are now residing special provision is being made for English speaking classes for adults and the children are being placed in schools close to the hostels where special English language classes are available to them. So the honourable gentleman will see that special attention is being provided not only to child migrant education generally but also to the special needs of refugees from Indo-China. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Independent Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act I present a statement of the payments made during the year ended 30 June 1975 in respect of all guarantees given under that Act. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on the Australian Education Council meeting held in Sydney on 1 2 and 13 February 1976. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Amendment Bill, the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill, the 
States Grants (Advanced Education) Amendment Bill and the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I thank honourable members for their contributions to this debate and I will deal with some of the points made by them. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  made a very efficient contribution when dealing with this legislation and pointed out how it followed the intentions of the previous Labor Government with respect to the funding of these institutions during this financial year. He raised 2 points about which I would like to comment. He referred to what he described as the novel way of funding some of the proposals, that is to say, by means of the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund. I refer, for example, to clause 21 of the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill. 
For the benefit of the honourable member I will explain the purpose of the clause to him in this way: The joint appropriation clauses will allow capital type expenditure under the programs for which financial assistance is provided in the Bills to be charged either to the Consolidated Revenue Fund or to the Loan Fund. They also include authority for the Treasurer to borrow for these purposes. The clauses do not affect the level of financial assistance approved by the Government and provided for in the Bills. The clauses are necessary to allow for greater flexibility in financial management and in particular to allow capital type expenditures to be charged against the Loan Fund. The clauses will have no effect whatever on expenditure on the approved education programs. They will not more adversely affect the Budget deficit than the legacy that has been left to the present Government by the former financial management of the previous Government. 
The honourable gentleman also referred to Kalgoorlie. I was pleased to see that he did not attempt to play politics with the proposal for the funding of the Kalgoorlie School of Mines. May I point out to the honourable gentleman and other members in the House- I notice the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  in the chamberthat in the Bill funds are provided for the project. But the decision has been made that in view of the Partridge report and the necessity for the State Government of Western Australia to make a decision on that report, it would be inappropriate to proceed with the project at this stage. Of course when the State Government has made its decision, it will be considered by the Council for Advanced Education, which will in due course be making a recommendation to the Federal Government concerning the future of the Kalgoorlie School of Mines. 
Another point which was raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith concerned cost escalation to the end of 1976 in compliance with the established procedures for expenditure. I assure the honourable gentleman that that does relate to the 1976 Bill-the Bill before the House. The Government will consider programs of the commissions for future years in the context of the 1976-77 Budget. I think that that will satisfy any doubts which the honourable gentleman and other honourable members on his side of the House have in their minds. The honourable gentleman further referred to the need for national support by the Federal Government of the State education systems. Of course it goes without saying that the Government recognises its national responsibilities in this field. Of course former Liberal-Country Party Governments have a long history of national support of tertiary and other education. 
I was interested to listen to the contribution of the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer).  The variety of points that were covered by him and what he had to say were all of a most constructive nature and are points which I am sure will be read with interest by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  They all have practical application. When the honourable member speaks of the need to watch that education institutions of the kind which are funded by these Bills do not debase the value of degrees granted by them, I think we would all agree with that sentiment. The honourable gentleman referred to migrant education and gave an example of a need for co-ordination which he had experienced within his own electorate. In answering a question the other day, I spoke on this and assured honourable members that the Government is aware of the need for fully supporting migrant education. The honourable member for Casey has drawn the attention of the House- again I am sure it will be taken into account by the Minister- to the need for coordination if these migrant education schemes are to have their full effect and value for those who need them. 
Both the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  drew the attention of the House to the need to look for cost savings and the need to obtain real educational value for expenditure through these educational institutions. I think that the contribution of the honourable member for Parramatta, in referring to the average annual cost of producing a graduate, is something that needs to be borne in mind when we look at priorities in education. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  raised 2 matters that I wish to comment upon particularly. He referred to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  which of course was sheer speculation, picked up by the honourable gentleman, charging the Government with all sorts of dreadful things, including secrecy. May I inform the honourable gentleman that the previous Government found itself unable to accept all the recommendations of the education commissions last year when they put forward programs for the years 1976-78, worth a total of about $6,400m. For this reason, having regard to the experience of the previous Labor Government, the present Government is considering issuing guidelines to the education commissions for the preparation of their reports in the 1977-79 triennium. This question is being looked at in the context of the Government's examination of the overall budgetary situation for the next financial year. I do not think that any honourable member can cavil at that desire of the Government. Any guidelines provided to the commissions will be released publicly by the Government. The triennial reports of the commissions will be available for consideration by the Government in the Budget context. 
With regard to the experience of the education commissions with the last Labor Government, this Government would not want to see the commissions put in the position where they have no financial guidelines and therefore are faced with the undesirable prospects, as they were last year, of having their proposals rejected by the Government because they do not fit in with the Government's budgetary requirements. That is a situation which this Government seeks to avoid and one which I expect the education commissions will welcome. The honourable gentleman spoke of the Mount Druitt Technical College. I am informed that the Technical and Further Education Commission has no information that the New South Wales Government intends to obtain plans to build a technical college at Mount Druitt. That statement ought to deal with that speculation by the honourable gentleman. I thank all honourable members for their contribution to the debate. As I have said, I am sure that all the points raised will be of value in the considerations by the Minister. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-I draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that he spoke during the second reading debate last night on a number of Bills which I introduced on behalf of my colleague in another place, the Minister for Education. During that debate he raised the same question as he is now asking this morning. I draw his attention to pages 987 and 988 of  Hansard  where I answered completely on the spot, for his benefit, the question that he now asks this morning. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the payment of grants to the States for government and non-government schools in 1976. I recently foreshadowed the introduction of this Bill when introducing Bills relating to other sectors of education. The background to this Bill and aspects of it are common to the Bills introduced earlier for universities and colleges of advanced education. 
In November of last year the Government, in its caretaker capacity, gave an undertaking to the States and non-government schools that financial assistance would be provided to institutions in 1976 on the basis announced by the previous Government. This Bill discharges that undertaking. It provides for programs estimated to cost $43 lm, which together with the funds that continue to be provided under the States Grants (Schools) Act passed by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972, make a total of $476m for the 1 976 calendar year. As part of the review of expenditure undertaken by the Government earlier this year, it was decided that because of the late start to the special projects program for 1976, it was doubtful whether all of the funds would be spent. Accordingly the sum available was reduced from $5.2m to $3.6m. 
These grants are, in the main, expressed in June 1975 price levels and will be supplemented by amending legislation for subsequent movements in costs. The previous Government decided that the new triennium should be deferred for a year and that 1976 should be treated outside the normal triennial progression. This Bill gives effect to that decision. 
The Government wants to make clear that the Bill now before the House is largely the product of decisions by the previous Government; future programs will be determined in the light of our appreciation of priorities affecting Australian schools. The Bill does however reflect our intention to depart from the recent trend towards centralism in the administration of schools. It is our aim to ensure, by consultation and co-operation with the States and other education authorities, that Commonwealth funds are made available in such a way as to reflect local priorities. To this end, the Schools Commission, in preparing its report to the Government for the proposed triennium 1977-79, has been consulting with the States and other authorities in order to take full account of the priorities and needs of the various education agencies. 
The prorogation of Parliament in November 1975 made it impossible until now to introduce legislation to appropriate grants for 1976. To avoid impediments to the implementation of school programs pending passage of this Bill, special financial arrangements were made with the States by the caretaker Government. Accordingly, the Bill also provides for reimbursement of the States in respect of payments they have made under the special arrangements in the interim period. 
As with the other education Bills I have already introduced, provision is made in this Bill for grants in relation to building and equipment projects to be met, if necessary, from the Loan Fund. There are to be 6 programs in 1976- general recurrent grants, disadvantaged schools, special education, services and development, special projects and capital grants. 
It is the policy of this Government to establish as much flexibility and initiative as possible for systems and schools in using education grants. Decentralisation of decision-making is desirable to permit maximum responsiveness and local involvement in education. A capacity to re-order priorities as changing needs arise and to reallocate funds accordingly is an important characteristic of any organisation. 
The Government supports increased autonomy in decision-making for all schools and greater involvement of the community associated with individual schools. We applaud the moves already made in this direction by some States and look forward to further development of this trend. We will continue co-operative discussions with systems on ways of increasing local decision-making for schools. 
It has been possible to expand the definition of those who may participate in the in-service training and related activities to allow participation of parents and other citizens. The Government accepts that there will be a need for opportunities for many people to increase their knowledge and experience if there is to be genuine community participation and increased autonomy for schools, and hopes that funds will be used accordingly. 
To give increased flexibility in the application of Commonwealth funds, the previous arrangements permitting transfer of funds have been extended and now allow for transfers of funds between elements of the capital program and other transfers between components within a specified program. Subject to agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, it is also possible that there be some reallocation between recurrent and capital funds and some reallocation between States. 
There is a recognised need to inform this Parliament and the Australian people how moneys granted for education purposes are spent. This does not mean we need to have every small item of expenditure undertaken by States or by nongovernment schools reported. We do need, however, information which covers the main areas of expenditure and enables a proper assessment of progress made towards meeting the learning needs of children. Continuing assessment and evaluation of progress is essential to the proper determination of future levels and direction of funding. With this in mind, we have modified the accountability requirements so that States will report the major items of expenditure but will not have to provide reports in detail. Similarly, in the case of the non-government schools it it not our intent, under thus legislation, to call for accountability requirements beyond those which have been customary for some years. 
I would also like to make it clear that the discretion which the Bill accords to the Commonwealth Minister in matters such as the declaration of disadvantaged schools and the classes of persons other than teachers who may take part in in-service training activities will be exercised in consultation with State Ministers. Following the application of grants under this legislation a report will be tabled in each House of the Parliament containing such information as is reasonable and practicable for the States to provide. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
This is a matter of policy which I have under consideration at the moment. I have had a great number of consultations with a great number of people and there will be a submission going forward to the Government on this matter. I can, however, assure the honourable gentleman and the House that whatever form the legislation takes there will be adequate protection for the interests of the Aboriginal people. 
For the information of honourable members I present 4 reports by the Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner. Perhaps I should identify the land in respect of which each of these reports is made. The first concerns land known as Goondal at Emery Point, Darwin. The second is a report of a land claim known as the Kulaluk land claim. The third is on Lot 5027, Town of Darwin, commonly known as the Railway Dam land. The fourth is on a land claim for Supplejack Downs. A reference copy of each of the maps accompanying these reports has been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The level of lending by the Aboriginal Loans Commission since 1 July 1975 has been: 
There is a total $1,030,294 comprising $929,506 enterprise and $ 100,788 housing funds, available for lending from the present to 30 June 1976. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There is no record of any direct grants by the Department of Education to the Wayside Chapel, Kings Cross, New South Wales, during the last five financial years. 
No grant is proposed. 
-I move: 
That, in lieu of the time limit specified in standing order 91 for speeches on the 'Motion for adjournment of House to terminate the sitting-', the following time limit shall operate: 'Each Member ... 5 minutes (no extension of time to be granted): 
Provided that, if no other Member rises to address the House, a Member who has already spoken to the motion may speak a second time for a period not exceeding 5 minutes'. 
That, unless otherwise ordered, this sessional order shall operate from Tuesday, 27 April 1976 to Thursday, 6 May 1976, inclusive. 
This matter concerns procedures for the conduct of the debate on the motion "That the House do now adjourn'. At the outset, on behalf of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  I mention that credit is due to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for the proposition contained in this motion. As a result of the concern expressed by the honourable member that not enough time was available in the adjournment debate for a variety of speakers, the Leader of the House gave consideration to modifying the existing rules for that debate to allow more speakers. Limitations are inherent in a half hour being available for the adjournment debate when speakers from both sides each have 10 minutes. In addition, it is sometimes necessary for a Minister to answer immediately a matter raised by a private member and this. effectively cuts out the opportunity for other honourable members on both sides of the House to engage in further debate or to raise other matters. It is as a result of that consideration that the Government decided to move this motion. I emphasise that it is for a trial period from 27 April to 6 May. I think all honourable members, particularly back bench members, appreciate the importance to them of the adjournment debate in which they can bring before the notice of the House matters of importance to the nation, to them individually, and to their electorates. It is also an occasion when debate can be stimulated on a particular topic and an occasion when back bench members in particular from both sides of the House are able to participate in a free ranging debate and an exchange of ideas. 
It is against that background that the Leader of the House gave notice of this motion which is for a trial period. It will be seen that the intention of the motion is to allow an honourable member to speak for 5 minutes in lieu of the 10 minutes that is presently allowed with no extension of time to be granted provided that if no other member rises to address the House a member who has already spoken to the motion that the House do now adjourn may speak a second time for a period not exceeding 5 minutes. 
If I may foreshadow the next motion I intend to move, Notice of Motion No. 2, it provides that a Minister who may want to enter the debate because of what has been introduced by another member will wait until after private members have spoken and then speak after 1 1 p.m. for a period not exceeding 10 minutes. The intention, as honourable members will realise, is to provide more time and more opportunity for back bench members to utilise the adjournment debate to introduce matters that they consider to be important. I am sure all honourable members who have found the present time limitation quite a restriction on their own opportunities to participate in the adjournment debate will welcome this proposal which will certainly provide them with a much greater opportunity than they have hitherto had. I would hope against the background of what I have said and in the spirit of the trial period that is inherent in the motion that the Opposition will support the Government's proposal. It may be thought by Opposition members that in some respects the motion will inhibit their opportunities to participate in the adjournment debate. Maybe Opposition members will think that this proposal will inhibit their opportunity to put Ministers on the mat or that it will give an advantage to a Minister in being able to come in at the end of an adjournment debate and speak for a period not exceeding 10 minutes, but I would hope that the Opposition will understand the spirit in which the change is being proposed. 
The Government is quite prepared to look at the experience of this trial period. If it is found to be unworkable then we will not proceed with it, but if it is found that it has the general support of members on both sides of the House- I emphasise the words 'on both sides of the House '-I think the House will find itself indebted to the initiative shown by the honourable member for Mackellar who first proposed this matter. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. It relates to a subject about which he has spoken to me before and on which we have had some correspondence. The primary obligation of the Commonwealth in this area of housing is to see that those Aboriginals who have not properly been housed before are now properly housed as a matter of national responsibility. Of course Aboriginals like all other people, must act in accord and in line with the norms of society. There is really no primary responsibility on the Commonwealth, apart from and distinct from that which is the responsibility of local government, State government, State government welfare agencies and the like, to do anything differently in respect of Aboriginals than it would do in respect of other members of the community who, by their anti-social misbehaviour, bring themselves into ill repute with their neighbours. So in this respect there should be no discrimination either for  or  against Aboriginals and those who misbehave in a way which upsets their neighbours should be treated in the same way as those whites who we know do misbehave. There are many occasions when they upset their neighbours and the community within which they live. There are programs within the welfare agencies of government and there are activities which local government can undertake to help Aboriginals who are housed under this national housing program embarked upon by this Government as it has been embarked upon by previous governments. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment proposed. Let me say at the outset that that is not because the Government does not believe in community participation in school programs; in fact, far from it. I indicated quite clearly in my second reading speech, as recorded at page 1013 of  Hansard,  that there is a strong public commitment by the Government to community participation in school programs. So there is no question about that. In drafting the Bill the Government gave careful consideration to the question whether the Commonwealth should have the power to impose a legislative requirement that part of the general recurrent grants for government or non-government systemic schools should be made available to school community bodies. Indeed, that observation was made by the Schools Commission in its June 1975 report. It made the point that the devolution of decision making 'should not be coerced through legislation'. 
Although the amendment speaks of authorising the Minister to permit the allocation of a specific amount from a school's allocation to be spent at the discretion of the School Board, because of the caveat presented by the Schools Commission, as I have already quoted, the Government considers that more thought needs to be given to the particular manner in which legislative approval of the process of community participation should be given effect. The Government reached the conclusion that it would not be appropriate in a standstill year of funding, which is what we have at the present time, where new initiatives were to be avoided, to introduce a provision whereby the Commonwealth could direct a State or non-government system to make funds available in such a way. 
It is our intention to encourage as much decentralisation of decision making as possible, to permit maximum responsiveness and local involvement in education. We shall continue cooperative discussions with the States and nongovernment school systems on ways of increasing local decision making for schools. For these reasons the Government had the Bill drafted so that it would be quite open to a State or a nongovernment school system to use its own discretion in allowing funds to be allocated direct to school community bodies, but it would not be incumbent upon either to do so. In that respect, the Bill having been drawn in the way in which it has been in order to provide for that flexibility of decision making, the amendment proposed is unnecessary. As I pointed out, because the amendment is worded in such a way as to make it permissive rather than directive that certain funds be spent at the discretion of the school board, it would not add in any way to the capacity for community involvement that is already provided for in the Bill. Moreover, in the case of government schools, by not involving the State Minister in the arrangements the proposal would be offensive to State governments. 
As a concrete indication of our interest in community involvement the Bill provides in clause 39, as I point out to the honourable member opposite who moved the amendment, under the definition of 'approved development and service activities', for the participation of parents and other members of the community in developmental programs. Finally, as a result of the interim financing arrangements that we have made with the States both they and the nongovernment school authorities have planned the expenditure of the whole of the funds to be made available. To introduce changes in the funding arrangements at this stage could be construed as a breach of faith. Therefore, as I have indicated, the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
in reply- I thank honourable gentlemen who have participated in this debate for their contribution on what is a very important matter, namely, Commonwealth funding of education in Australia. We heard from a former Minister for Education, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  one who has had a long-standing, and in many respects a passionate interest in the educational welfare of Australian children. We all recognise his contribution to education in Australia and listen attentively to whatever he has to say. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  in leading for the Opposition on this Bill, expressed a number of fears that were in his mind. I am quite sure that those who are aware of the Government's commitment to education, particularly through the funding powers of the national Government, will know of the policy of the coalition parties which in quite unmistakable terms displays our commitment to education at the national level. 
The honourable member Kingsford-Smith spoke of fear that the Government will vacate a real interest in the area and he spoke of the debate on centralism versus federalism. There is no doubt that the Government has a firm commitment to a true spirit of political federalism in Australia, given effect by a recognition of the role of the national Government through this Parliament and the role of State governments. So we do not make any apoligies for our policy of political federalism. But at the same time we are aware of our national responsibility in this great field of education and we will not shrink from giving effect to that responsibility. We have already given a public commitment to the continuation of the Schools Commission, for example, and that, of course, will be a vehicle through which the Federal Government may receive advice at a national level, crossing State boundaries, on educational needs throughout Australia. Of course this Government will rely on and seek the advice and the views of the Schools Commission in the years ahead. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith also spoke of a fear that was at least in his mind that the Government would reduce spending on education. I think the Government's commitment to education can be seen in the way the Department of Education fared in the program of economic restraint instituted by the Government in its necessary efforts to take control of the deficit facing the Government which was expected to be between $4,500m and $5,000m. Nevertheless, whilst it can be fairly and properly said that we have a commitment to maintain a level of spending on education such as that which is to be implemented through this Bill, education must, as must all other areas of national government, participate in the exercise in national economic responsibility upon which this Government is embarked at present, because, unless we follow that through, education, no less than any other area of government spending, will suffer, because real value will not get out to the people who really count in education, and they are the children of Australia upon whom the nation will rely in the years to come. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith also stated that the Schools Commission should be consulted. He really need have no fear on that score. I feel that his remarks in that regard might well have been thrown into this debate with tongue in cheek. This Government has given no hint whatsoever that it will not consult the Schools Commission in its future programming and funding in education. I have commented on only some of the remarks made by the honourable gentleman to give some indication that any fears that he alone may have are really quite unfounded. 
The honourable member for Fremantle asked for a commitment from this Government to pursue the 3 principles of which he spoke- indexing or cost supplementation to government and nongovernment schools, the principle of educational accessibility and the principle of weighted grants to disadvantaged schools. Of course the very fact that the funding provided for through this Bill gives effect to each of those principles indicates that the call by the honourable gentleman for a commitment by the Government to these 3 principles really need not have been asked for, because it is provided for in the Bill. 
The honourable member for Fremantle also spoke of centralisation of education through the Commonwealth and sought to make the point that there had really been no move in that direction under the former Government and that in fact there was the necessity for the central Government here in Canberra to move into the field in order to reveal to the nation those weaknesses in State systems which the States systems had concealed. This Government has no hesitation in saying that the last thing it wants to see in education is the centralisation of education in Australia. We have given positive effect to that commitment to co-operative federalism in education as in other fields through this Bill and through remarks that I have already made in my second reading speech in introducing the Bill. 
I shall give an example from this Bill of the spirit of co-operative federalism with which we approach education. I refer to the fact that discussions have been held with the State authorities and this Bill has been drafted to meet requirements of the State authorities which will give them flexibility in their operations. I refer particularly to the transferability provisions, the amalgamation of all capital components in the one schedule and the relaxing where possible of accountability requirements as examples of the flexibility given within this Bill to allow States and systems to determine their own priorities. It is important that the State and other educational systems should be given as wide a power as possible to determine their own priorities whilst we at the national level should look at national priorities and fund them accordingly. 
I refer now to the contributions made to the debate by other honourable members. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  who has shown a keen interest in education ever since he became a member of this House, highlighted a fact that must be recognised by everyone in this field as in all other fields, that is, that the resources available to the Government are finite and hence priorities must be established within those finite resources with respect to education as well as in other fields. A contribution was made to the debate by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu),  who is a new member of this House. He is showing a special interest in education. The honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  pointed up what needs to be pointed up whenever the subject of education is debated in this House, that is, the special problems which face country areas and the difficulties which parents face in seeking the highest level of education for their children on the basis of equality with what is available and much more readily accessible to children in the metropolitan areas. I thank honourable members for their contributions to this debate. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has foreshadowed the moving of certain amendments. I can say now that the Government will be opposing those amendments, but I will be elaborating more particularly on them when they are presented at the Committee stage of the debate on this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 6- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
At any time, and from time to time, during the year to which this Act applies, but subject to sub-section (4), the Commonwealth Education Minister may, at the request of the State Education Minister for a State, direct that this Act has effect as if the amounts specified in columns 2 and 3 of Schedule 1 opposite to the name of the State were varied in accordance with the direction, and, where the Commonwealth Education Minister gives a direction with respect to the variation of those amounts, then, for the purposes of this Act (including this sub-section and sub-sections (2) and (4)), there shall be deemed to have been specified in that Schedule (as from the commencing day), in substitution for those amounts, the amounts as so varied. 
I was rather intrigued by the argument presented by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in support of his amendment because he was arguing strenuously on a premise which is not denied, and that is that the Schools Commission ought to be consulted. The real question is whether an amendment of this kind is needed to the Bill and nothing that the honourable gentleman has said justifies the acceptance of the amendment. Let me explain it in this way to the Committee. The provision referred to in the amendment relates to the transfer of funds between recurrent and capital expenditure for government schools within a State. There are similar provisions elsewhere in the Bill, not only here but elsewhere, and no amendments are sought in respect of those, together with provision for the Minister to transfer funds from one State to another. The Bill does not refer in any of its substantive clauses to the Schools Commission since the Bill is concerned with the approval of grants which must be the responsibility of the Minister. So why does the Opposition seek to have included in this clause a reference to the Schools Commission when the Commission is not referred to elsewhere in the Bill? 
In giving the approvals under this provision the Minister would, as a matter of course, seek information and advice from the Schools Commission in accordance with the Commission's own charter as set out in the Schools Commission Act of 1 973. 1 do not really think that the honourable member believes that the Government would ignore the charter of the Schools Commission. The State Minister would have to provide reasons for any transfer of funds that he proposed and the Commonwealth Minister would need to be satisfied about the transfer before agreeing to it. 
The second part of the amendment refers to a proposal for a report to Parliament in advance of any intended transfer of funds between recurrent and capital expenditure. There is, as the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  pointed out, provision in clause 7 (5) of the Bill for Parliament to be informed 'as soon as practicable' after the Minister has decided on a transfer. To inform the Parliament in advance could give rise to delays, especially if Parliament is not sitting, and would not change the position in any material way. So there is no intention to withhold information from the Parliament. In fact, the intention to disclose government decisions through the Minister is already written into the Bill. For those reasons the Government does not propose to accept the amendment. 
in reply- It is obvious from what has been said by members of the Opposition and by those on the Government side who have spoken that this legislation must be a bench mark in by-partisanship, judging from the equal standpoint with which both sides have approached the legislation, to the point of presentation of the same second reading speech. I was very interested, as I am sure other members were, to hear the former Minister for Education, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  One thing which the honourable member indicated to the House- it really points up what many of us had observed before- is that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is one of the great paradoxes of Australian political history. The honourable member for Fremantle gave us new insight and presented new dimensions into the quaintness of his leader's socialism. It might well be said that the Leader of the Opposition as a student of history has much to learn from the honorable member for Fremantle. I was very interested in the remarks of the honourable member on this Bill and on the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1976. The honourable member for Fremantle referred to the education of Aboriginals. While he was speaking I had 2 ears on what the honourable member was saying and with my 2 eyes I was reading the Schools Commission report which is dated October 1 975. Paragraph 2.2 of that report states: 
The Commission thus wishes the relate the financing of education directly to equality and quality. It reaffirms its belief that without a minimum level of competence a person bears a lifelong disability, not only in the achievement of self-fulfilment but in relation to effective participation in society. 
I am quite sure the honourable member agrees with me when I say that that observation applies no less to Aboriginal members of the Australian community than it does to other members. I know from discussions I have had with the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in my capacity as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs of the great interest which the Minister for Education has in the education of Aboriginal people. He will be taking initiatives for his part, to bring about the same belief which the Schools Commission has expressed in the section of the report which I have read. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The latest available figures are for 197S when teaching in the therapies in universities was confined to the University of Sydney (Physiotherapy and Speech Therapy) and the University of Queensland (Physiotherapy, Speech Therapy and  Occupational  Therapy).  At  the University of Sydney there were 161 such students, all of whom were enrolled for diplomas in the Cumberland College of Health Sciences and were undertaking miscellaneous subjects at the University. From 1976 these students will undertake all their training at the Cumberland College. At the University of Queensland, which currently is the only University with therapists courses, there were 599 students in 1975 all of whom were enrolled in degree courses. 
Enrolments for 1975 in courses in occupational therapy (OT) physiotherapy (FT) and speech therapy (ST) in colleges of advanced education are shown in the table below. No designation of health assistant or aide is used in relation to courses in colleges of advanced education and it is not possible to provide information in relation to these categories. Some options in relation to courses in applied science provide qualifications in the biomedical sciences. Separate statistics in relation to this matter are not collected. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No cuts have been made in current programs, or in programs for which commitments had been given to Aboriginal organisations in the Electoral Division of Darling. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Council for Aboriginal Affairs is at present primarily engaged in the following matters: 
safeguarding the interests of the Torres Strait Islanders in discussions preparing for the negotiations with Papua New Guinea in relation to the Australian/Papua New Guinea border; 
assisting me in safeguarding the interests of the Aurukun Aboriginals in relation to the proposal to mine and refine bauxite near Aurukun; 
assisting in implementation of the recommendations in the Council' s reports of 1974 on Yuendumu and Hooker Creek, and of 1975 on Arnhem Land (at present being printed); 
preparing a submission to the Ranger Inquiry about the impact of mining activities on Aboriginal communities; 
undertaking particular projects referred by myself or the Permanent Head; and 
f) discussing with me questions relating to its future. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for the question which draws attention to the number of teachers and representatives of parents who are gathering in Canberra today to speak to as many members of Parliament as they can, representing the educational interests in Australia. I think the way in which this gathering of teachers and others has prepared itself, has come to Canberra and is approaching members of Parliament is in stark contrast to the way in which other gatherings came to present themselves to the former Government. I think it is an indication of the way in which teachers and others respect the attitude of this Government and the way in which their views will be received, understood and acted upon. I know from experience in my electorate recently- I received a delegation from the State school teachers union and parent organisations, and with them I visited schools in my electorate- the value of that kind of activity not only for me but also for members of the deputation. I know that this was done successfully in all other electorates in Western Australia. The Government has been quite clear in its attitude to education and the nigh priority it gives to education. The Minister has given to the teacher organisations throughout Australia assurances of the high priority which we give to education. I am quite sure that in future that will be shown by the programs which we put into effect and by the expenditure which is authorised. 
Pursuant to section 5 of the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act 1971, I present a statement of payments authorised under section 3 of that Act during 1974-75. The statement shows the total amount paid to each State in respect of non-government and government schools, the grant paid to each nongovernment school, and the government schools assisted with grants. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Laverton Royal Commission 1975-76. Due to the limited number of copies of this report available at this time reference copies have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. I seek leave to make a statement relating to the report. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1975-76 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The table below sets out total payments made to airline companies in the two years ending 31.3.76. The amounts include a small component for freight. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first annual report of Aboriginal Hostels Limited covering the period to June 1975. 
For the information of honourable members I present the second progress report on the bilingual education program in schools in the Northern Territory together with a statement by the Minister for Education relating to that report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present intention is that the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies should move into new premises at Phillip in Canberra as soon as the building is completed and ready for occupation. On present estimate, the move should be made shortly after June this year. The new premises will have adequate space for all sections of the Institute and will be air-conditioned. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Student Assistance Act 1973 I present the report on the operation of that Act for 1 974. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This annual States Grants Bill will provide legislative authority for the payments of grants to the States, for Aboriginal assistance programs undertaken by the State governments during 1975-76. It follows the pattern of States grants legislation of previous years. I seek the agreement of the House to the incorporation in  Hansard  of several tables of expenditure. Table 1 sets out the estimated expenditure under State grants for various broad functions in 1975-76. 1 seek leave to have that table included in  Hansard. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
St Joseph's Primary School, Springvale. received a grant, to a maximum value of $190,000, for a building project under the Schools Commission's General Building Program and funded through the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973-74. 
The Schools Commission has now received an application from the school seeking assistance towards a library project. This application is currently being considered by the Commission and it is expected that a decision, in respect of this project, will be made in July. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (a) and (2) The following agreements were signed by the Prime Minister and were tabled, or are expected to be tabled, on the date indicated. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-1976, I present the report on financial assistance granted to each State under the terms of that Act during the financial year 1974-75. 
Yes, I can inform the honourable gentleman of the present situation. It is that the Government has authorised the introduction of legislation to recognise land rights for Aborigines in the Northern Territory, those land rights being in respect of the reserves there and also traditional lands to which Aborigines wish to make claim. The legislation, after being introduced, will be allowed to stand in the Parliament until the Budget session so that all persons interested can consider it. It is an important and complex piece of legislation. It is important that it has the widest possible coverage and that as many people as are interested in it can look at it and make any recommendations to the Government on any changes that are required. I know the anxiety of Aborigines throughout Australia that this legislation be introduced. The Government is aware of that anxiety. Its concern was first expressed in its published policy statement. Since it became my responsibility I have taken it on myself to discuss the matter with many people, Aborigines and others, throughout the Northern Territory in particular, who are interested in the subject. 
I am quite satisfied that the Bill which this Government will introduce will be a much better and more comprehensive Bill than that introduced by the previous Government. I mention only one factor which will indicate that. A fundamental provision recommended by  Mr Justice  Woodward- namely, to declare the nature of the Aboriginal land rights to their own land- was omitted from the Bill introduced by the previous Government. Without that provision the Bill really would have been worthless to Aborigines. We will be making sure that their rights are given to them in a legislative framework, with complementary legislation in the Northern Territory, in such areas as land use and the right of entry to Aboriginal land and communities. Out of this cooperative effort between this Government and the Northern Territory we will have a piece of legislation giving land rights to Aborigines which will be able to last for a long time. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
State Government and Catholic Systemic Disadvantaged Schools Committees in each State determine which of the projects put forward for funding by declared disadvantaged schools should be supported. 
No. 
Of the total number of declared disadvantaged schools, approximately fifteen per cent are located in rural areas. 
Department of the Treasury: Expenditure  (Question No. 526) 
-Aurukun is a word that has become a byword in Australia and in Aboriginal affairs over the last 6 months. It is not without coincidence that it has become a byword at the same time as the question of Aboriginal land rights has been raised again. One of the astounding things about Aurukun is that it has shown how widespread throughout the Australian community is concern about Aboriginal affairs- concern about the fate and the future of Aboriginal people; concern about the relationship of Aborigines with their land and the impact of economic exploitation of that land. The way in which the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  persisted in the face of political and other adversity as far back as 1963 is an example of what can be done. So also Aurukun is an example of what can be achieved by the persistence of people who are concerned about an issue as significant as this one, people who are prepared to take the brickbats which are thrown ut who carry on and can begin to see the real achievement of what they have been seeking. 
When I became responsible for Aboriginal Affairs, Aurukun was then a very live issue and I considered it important that of all the places I should go to to meet the Aboriginal people Aurukun should be the first, not only because of the political sensitivity of the matter at the time but because it was a remote Aboriginal community and one where to a very large measure the integrity of the Aboriginal culture still existed. I went to Aurukun and met the people in a friendly way. They were extremely courteous and they spoke with great dignity about thenown concern for the future of themselves, their children and their land. To be seated there out in the open with some 200-odd people listening intently and being prepared to speak openly and freely in front of a newcomer, because that is what I was, was quite an exhilarating experience. A very clear singular message came out of that meeting, and that was that the Aurukun people themselves felt that there had not been any real or adequate consultation with them about the future mining development on and adjacent to their reserve. That above all compelled them to say that there shall be no mining on their land. That is why they were so bitterly opposed to the passage of the Queensland legislation in early December 1975. 
The Commonwealth Government's concern and its action over Aurukun are now well documented both in Parliament and publicly. From the time of that visit of mine to Aurukun with people like the legal adviser to the Aurukun community,  Mr Frank  Purcell,  Senator Neville  Bonner and departmental officers, we were aware and very conscious of the nature of the concern of the Aurukun people. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  answered 2 questions in this House, one on 2 March and one on 23 March this year, making it quite clear how the Australian Government regarded the Aurukun question, making it quite clear that the Government considered that there should be better and more effective consultation with the Aurukun people. Its fundamental position was that if there is to be mining it ought only to take place after adequate consultation with the Aboriginal people themselves. The Government can use a strong arm in ways other than through legislation. If this motion were agreed to it would put the Australian Government in direct confrontation with the Queensland Government, and that kind of situation is not always the best way of solving a particular problem. The Government does have the strength of the 1967 referendum behind it and the acknowledgment by the Government in the face of the overwhelming result of that referendum that it does have in Australia today the paramount responsibility for Aboriginal affairs, and that will be the thought which guides the Government in its future action in respect of Aborigines. It is what has guided the Government in respect of its agreement to introduce land rights legislation for the Northern Territory. 
Honourable members on the Opposition side have referred to the inquiry by the Queensland Ombudsman. His inquiry vindicated the stand which had been taken by the Australian Government and the Ombudsman found as I found what the feeling of the Aurukun people was, and that is that there had not been real or adequate consultation about future mining development. The Ombudsman suggested that there be fresh discussions and he foreshadowed that the result of those discussions might well be the need to amend the agreement reached by the Queensland Government with the mining consortium. 
On 10 and 1 1 May there was a conference at Aurukun attended by representatives of the mining consortium, advisers to the Aurukun people, observers from my Department and observers from the Queensland Government. That conference did not resolve all the issues nor was it expected to resolve all the issues immediately. If there was one thing that has been learned over the last decade in dealing with Aboriginal people it is that negotiations and discussions must be carried on with patience, with understanding and in no sense of trying to get a quick decision out of the Aboriginal people. As negotiations have gone on over the years in different places so mining companies as well as governments have come to understand better how the Aboriginal people operate. They do not operate in the same way as we do. Their social structure is not the same as ours. The lines of authority within the Aboriginal community are not the same as ours. They are formalised, well defined and clearly known to the Aboriginal people but regrettably all too frequently they are neither known nor understood by people who deal with the Aboriginal people. 
So one clear message that has come out of developing experience is that when mining companies and others go in to confer with Aboriginal communities they must first take the time to do their homework and learn the basis of Aboriginal social structure, learn the nature of Aboriginal tradition, learn where the lines of authority are within Aboriginal communities, learn who can speak with authority for the Aboriginal people and learn who ought to speak when they are conferring because only if this is done can any adequate consultation be carried out. That is a lesson which has been learned at Aurukun and on that basis I would hope future conferences and negotiations can be much more fruitful than they have been in the past. 
It is regrettable that out of much of the public discussion on Aurukun the most attention has been given to the question of royalties as if money is the answer to it all, and of course money, as we know, can help. 
It helps but it is not the answer. This again was the clear message that came from the Aurukun people. They did not consider that a 3 per cent share of net profit was proper compensation or a proper sharing by them in the results of the mining project because it was uncertain. Whereas royalties are taken off, in financial jargon, at the front end profits are taken at the back end. There may not be profits for one reason or another; they might be small for one reason or another. Those who obtain royalties obtain them at the front end, obtain them without risk and obtain them before any other expenses are incurred. So the Aurukun people were concerned to see that they received a direct and immediate benefit from the mining project and the benefit that they were to receive in money terms was not left to chance, nor that it be left to flow through uncertain governmental channels. 
The Aurukun people also were concerned at the future prospect of employment for their people. They were not satisfied that employment should be for outsiders alone. When we speak of giving equal opportunity for employment to an Aboriginal community, it is not enough to ask employers to throw open their employment books to Aborigines and say to them: 'Write your name down and we will look at the prospects of employing you' because of course, that ignores the lack of skills, the lack of training and the lack of prior opportunity to be trained in the kinds of skills that a mining operation would require. So equal opportunity for employment requires training and a well planned program of training before the operation commences. Other considerations are social development within the community, community facilities, living facilities, town facilities. Are we to have side by side, in an architectural and landscaping sense, a beautifully designed, mining town for mining employees and only a short distance away an Aboriginal community, with all that that implies in terms of past history? That kind of situation can no longer be countenanced by the Australian people. 
When the Aborigines seek protection for their land they seek protection for their spiritual affinity with the land, which was so adequately expressed by the honourable member for Fremantle. They desire safeguards for their social structure, traditions and culture. Whilst we speak so freely of the clash of culture we simply pose the problem and in no way offer solutions. I am quite sure that my announcement in the House yesterday of the Government's decision to introduce legislation in this Parliament for the giving of land rights in the Northern Territory will be a watershed in Australian history. It will be a watershed in relations between Australians and the Aboriginal citizens of Australia. Likewise, in its own way, Aurukun will also be a watershed in terms of both Australian history and our relations with Aboriginal communities, because no longer can we see that the future will be the same as the past. We know we have a long way to go because community understanding of what is involved in land rights still leaves much to be desired. That is why it is a matter of high priority for my Government that not only must things like land rights be recognised; programs for bicultural understanding must also be implemented, reach a high level and pervade every section of the community from the children to the elderly, because only when the Australian people understand Aborigines, their traditions, their culture, their spiritual affinity with land, can they understand what is involved in the granting of land rights and why. people persist in trying to help Aborigines like the Aurukun people when they come face to face with the demands of economic interests over their land. 
Although the Government does not accept the motion in its terms, the mover of the motion can be well assured of the Government's concern to see that a proper solution is reached at Aurukun and that there is adequate consultation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report on the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises together with financial statements for the period 1 July 1974 to 27 November 1974. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act 1974 I present the first report on the activities of the Aboriginal Loans Commission, together with financial statements, since its inception on 28 November 1974 to 30 June 1975. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the Treasurer's reply to Question No. 526 which appeared in  Hansard,  Wednesday, 26 May 1976. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Ten personnel are engaged full time in recruitment matters. The annual cost is $ 107,000. 
, (3) and (4) Nil. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Statistics of the characteristics of the population of the electoral division of Batman as at 30 June 1971 are contained in 'Bulletin 8, Characteristics of the Population and Dwellings, Commonwealth Electoral Divisions' published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, Canberra. 
The number of children at school in local government areas in Victoria is contained in 'Primary ana Secondary Education 1974' published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, Victoria. 
The Statistics section of the former Department of Immigration produced in 1973 a publication entitled 'Overseas Born, Local Government Areas, Population Census 30 June 1971 ' which may be of some assistance to the honourable member. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Katherine Rural College Planning Committee. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is basically the same as the one introduced by the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs late in the life of the previous Parliament but which lapsed as a result of the double dissolution of Parliament. The purpose and provisions of that Bill have been re-examined and the principles behind it accepted by the Government. Two particular amendments are proposed which I will mention later. The Bill is a tangible indication of this Government's commitment to the principle that Aboriginals and Islanders should be as free as other Australians to determine their own future and to take their rightful place as citizens in the Australian community. In January 1972 the Right Honourable William McMahon announced his Government's intention of introducing legislation for the incorporation of Aboriginal communities. This intention was given support by  Mr Justice  Woodward in the first report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission in 1973. In his report, the Commissioner pointed out that existing legal provisions in respect of incorporation were not adequate to meet the needs of the communities with which he had come into contact in the course of his inquiries. 
Existing State and Territory legislation provides for a range of forms of incorporation for a variety of purposes- charitable, social, cultural and sporting organisations, companies, partnerships and other forms of business enterprise. The complexities of such matters are confusing enough to anyone but company lawyers; one can well imagine the bewilderment of Aboriginal elders in remote tradition-oriented communities, who simply want to get on with their own projects, when faced by the immense amount of documentation necessary to enable them to act as a legally recognised corporate body. But it is not only to eliminate these complexities that I am now introducing this Bill. Aboriginal communities have been obliged to learn to adopt nonAboriginal ways when it is necessary to meet Government and other requirements, and have already demonstrated, in the large number of incorporated communities and associations already in existence, their preparedness to do so. 
What is so important about this measure is that it will recognise cultural differences between the Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal societies and enable Aboriginal communities to develop legally recognisable bodies which reflect their own culture and do not require them to subjugate this culture to overriding Western European legal concepts. This is a very real manifestation of the growing recognition throughout Australia of the validity and strength of Aboriginal society -which, I might add, is clearly acknowledged in the policy of the Government Parties which recognises a special obligation 'to provide opportunities for Aborigines to preserve their traditions, languages and customs from further encroachment and destruction where possible '. 
The 2 distinct forms of corporate entity which may be established under the legislative processes provided by the Bill are Aboriginal councils, and Aboriginal associations. Councils are geographically-based bodies which may undertake a variety of functions on behalf of an Aboriginal community of the area, provided that these include the provision of at least one of the kinds of services listed in clause 11(3) such as housing, health, municipal and related services. By providing for the incorporation of councils, the legislation will allow Aboriginal communities to incorporate without requiring registration of community membership, as in the case of associations. A council is in the nature of a community corporation based on a local Aboriginal social structure serving the special interests of that community. Aboriginal Associations may be formed by a group of Aboriginals for any social or economic purpose, including the conduct of a business enterprise. 
Aboriginal communities and organisations receiving grants from the Commonwealth are normally required to be incorporated so that they may be legally accountable and responsible for their actions. It is not intended that, with the bringing into force of this legislation, Aboriginal groups already incorporated will be required to incorporate under the new legislation, and such organisations may well wish to continue in their present form. The new legislation will, however, make it simpler for them to adopt structures relevant to their needs and will make it simpler for new organisations to incorporate in an appropriate manner. There is, however, no requirement that groups newly incorporating must do so under the new legislation: Some may well wish to incorporate under existing Commonwealth or State legislation, and they will be free to do so. 
Concern has been expressed by some that there may be conflict where local governmenttype services are already being provided by an existing local government authority. Clause 30(1) specifically excludes Aboriginal councils from making by-laws inconsistent with existing laws in force in the area of the council. It will be necessary for any Council by-laws to be laid on the table of each chamber for 14 days, which is an addition made to the Bill introduced by the previous Government. The present Government considered it proper that these by-laws should be subject to the scrutiny of Parliament. I draw attention to the provisions of clauses 16 (3) and 17 (4) of the Bill. Honourable members will appreciate that in some remote areas of Australia local government authorities do not exist. However, these provisions will ensure that there will be no conflict between the establishment of an Aboriginal council in that area and any future proposals for the development of local government. 
This Bill, though necessarily complex in part, has been made as straightforward as possible. Out of it will come a major benefit for Aboriginal communities and groups throughout Australia, enabling them to establish themselves as legally recognised bodies in a form and for purposes which are meaningful to them. It will also ensure that these bodies accept responsibility for their corporate actions. In the light of last year's general consensus in the House as to the value of this legislation, I am confident it will now receive the support of honourable members and I commend the Bill to them. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
in reply- I wish to reply shortly to those who have spoken in this debate, to thank them for their contributions and to comment briefly upon them. A number of speakers have pointed out the problems that are faced in administering programs in respect of Aboriginal affairs. They have quite rightly pointed to these problems and at what the Government has to do with respect to them. This is not a matter that should be underestimated, and certainly it has not been underestimated by the present Government. Some speakers on the Opposition side referred to cuts in programs relating to Aboriginal affairs. They mentioned a figure of $3m in savings in this year's expenditure which was decided upon by the Government as soon as it came into office. It is proper to describe it as savings and not as direct cuts in funding for programs for which a commitment of funds had already been made. 
Upon examination made within my Department it was found that there were areas where, on the very best analysis of the funding, funds would not have been expended and so, without any hardship caused to any programs, savings in the true sense could be made. Therefore there was no diminution in a real sense of what was intended to be done by the Government this financial year. In respect of next financial year and the statement in this House by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  indicating the prospective budgetary position of the Government, my Department along with most other departments had to share the responsibility for the Government's commitment to a reduction in the level of growth of Government expenditure. In my area as well as in all others it was appreciated that, if the economy of this country was to be brought under control, we all had to share in the responsibility and, in a sense, in the burden of getting control of public expenditure, bringing it into perspective and then, in a holding position this year, assessing what our current programs were and where we would be going in the year after that. 
So when members of the Opposition and people outside this House speak of a dereliction of duty by the Government in supporting and funding programs of Aboriginal advancement, they really do not give a true account of the intentions of the Government. Those intentions can be stated shortly in this way: It has been said by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and it has been said by other members of the Government that the mere spending of money does not of itself bring real advantage to those who are disadvantaged. In these fields above all we must see that the money that is spent is put to work effectively and efficiently, because there is nothing worse than putting money in the hands of people and expecting them to respond when there is no underlying support given to them so that they can respond in a way which is of real value to them in a social sense and which in a financial sense shows that the Government has spent its money wisely and well. 
When people within and outside Parliament speak of cuts in expenditure on Aboriginal affairs in the forthcoming year and say that the Government has done a terrible thing, they need to appreciate the purpose behind what the Government has done. As I have said, it is this: When money is spent it must be spent in a way in which the people who it is intended should receive it receive real value for money. One of the tasks that I set myself when I came into this position of responsibility in the Ministry of Aboriginal Affairs was to go out into the field, meet the Aboriginal people, talk with them not to them, and in that way seek to understand not only their problems but also the way in which they see that their goals may be achieved, so that they may set their own priorities, so that they may have a sense of responsibility and so that they may have a sense of self reliance and self sufficiency. Many of them said to me very early in the piece that they felt that there were significant areas in which the money which was being provided by Government was not finding its way down to the people at the grass roots level. They were not receiving the real benefit of the money that Government was providing. Therefore this Government, with a sense of the importance of promoting programs of self management and self reliance for the Aboriginal people, realised that these programs must be coupled with a high level sense of financial discipline and financial efficiency so that the money would go to the places where there was greatest need and so that it could be seen in a real way that the people in those areas of greatest need were receiving the benefit of it. 
When it came to looking at the prospective expenditure for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the year 1976-77 the Government determined that there should be in a number of areas a fundamental reappraisal of the direction in which Government programs were being taken and that, whilst that reappraisal was being carried on, the funds available in those areas should be held at a level which would enable basic programs to be continued- programs where there had been legal commitments- so that in an on-going sense funds would be continued in the area. The 2 areas directly affected were housing and Aboriginal enterprises. The area of housing comprises grants to the States for the provision of Aboriginal housing and the provision of direct grants to Aboriginal organisationsin this case to the Aboriginal housing associations. The Government required of me that I review these programs in the case of State grants to see that the funds being provided were going to those Aboriginals in the greatest need of housing. Whether it be in Western Australia, New South Wales or the Northern Territory, where there is a continuance of reserves and a low standard of housing and where the Aboriginals on those reserves live in an impoverished economic state, to the extent that housing is fundamental to raising the standard of living of those people and to giving them a new hope for their future and for the future of their children, the Government decided that a reappraisal of those housing programs was necessary. It was not with the intention of cutting back funds that in the long term will be available through State Government agencies, but in order to ensure that when the Commonwealth Government provides those funds they will be going to the areas of greatest need. 
So that is what I and my Department are doing at present. In due course I shall be reporting to the Government. Likewise, in the area of Aboriginal housing associations, where money is provided directly to Aboriginal groups who have constituted themselves into housing associations, there have been criticisms from Aboriginals and from within government that money provided to these housing associations, not in all cases, but in some cases, is not producing the results that governments would want. At present I am conducting a reappraisal of these programs and specific projects funded directly to Aboriginal housing associations. While that reappraisal is going on, the Government has decided to limit the funds which are necessary in order to meet necessary legal commitments and in order to provide an on-going program for those housing associations which have a proven track record of success. Out of this will come a decision by government of the best way in which to support the principle of self-management to which the 
Government is committed for Aboriginals and Aboriginal organisations and the methods of administration which will lead to financial efficiency and a sense of responsibility by those organisations provided with funds. That in turn will establish a foundation for future funding, future support on a long term basis, not on an  ad hoc  basis. No longer will associations be advised that they have a level of funding for a current year and subsequently be advised, with regrets, that that money will not be available. Funds will be provided on a continuing basis to those organisations which can show that they can produce the results for the Aboriginal people. That is what it is all about. It is not a deliberate action on the part of government to cut back any commitment to the Aboriginal people but to ensure that whatever funds are provided in the future will be provided in the right places and in the right way and will give to the Aboriginal people real value for the public funds that are committed by government. 
The other significant area which is under reappraisal at the moment is that of Aboriginal enterprises. This covers activities such as pastoral properties, market garden activities to provide the nutritional needs of communities in the remoter parts of Australia and a variety of other enterprise activities of Aboriginal communities. It is considered by government, and quite rightly, that we need to look again at the purpose for which properties and activities such as this are undertaken and in order to determine the most effective ways in which government can support the Aboriginal people. I assure the Aboriginal people of Australia that that does not indicate in any. sense at all any lessening of concern by this Government for their advancement. In fact the statements that have been made already by me and by the Prime Minister concerning Aboriginal land rights indicate the commitment of this Government to significant reforms in Aboriginal affairs. That will have a marked impact on the attitudes of the Australian people to Aboriginal advancement as well as entrenching government activity, acknowledgement and recognition of the special interests of Aboriginals in Australia. 
So whatever is done now in terms of reappraisal of current programs, of planning of future programs, there is one single objective, and that is the advancement of the Aboriginal people, not in the way of the past through the paternalism of governments but in the way of the future- through opportunity to individual Aboriginals and communities of Aboriginals to have a sense of self-determination, a motivation for selfmanagement and a realisation of self-sufficiency and self-reliance. We ask no more of the people of Australia who are not Aboriginals. Therefore we should set our sights, set our goals at providing the Aboriginal people who have been disadvantaged for so long with the same goals as all Australians set for themselves. 
I welcome the contribution made by the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  who pointed out quite rightly that so often people point to single instances. As he mentioned, if Aboriginals drink in a particular hotel and the people in a place like Port Augusta observe that, they may condemn all Aboriginals for what they see in that particular instance. I thank the honourable member for making the point that Aboriginals cannot be judged on a single instance of that kind. When that kind of point is made I think of recent headlines in my own State of Western Australia where the newspapers referred to brawls, not by Aboriginal Australians but by other Australians, at the Sunday sessions of metropolitan hotels. I ask myself: Are all Australians judged by the activities of those who cause trouble at a Sunday session in the local hotel? Of course the answer is that they are not. Likewise the success of government programs and the outlook of the Australian community towards Aboriginals will be exemplified by the occasions when people realise that Aboriginals must be judged by their conduct in the same way as other Australians are judged. 
I thank the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for his contribution and for pointing out that so often in this field the fault lies not in the Aboriginals but in us- the other Australians- and the attitudes that we have towards them. At least in recent years public attitudes have changed towards what must be done for and in respect of Aboriginals, not in any paternalistic sense whatsoever but in a way which recognises those people as having special and peculiar characteristics- people who have a culture of their own which needs to be recognised and given full value for its own particular attributes. This attitude has been adopted in the realisation that we ought not to treat their culture with disdain. If we seek to understand it and give full recognition to it within our community, then in this way we can seek to bring about fundamental social changes in what we as a government and as a people do in respect of Aborigines. That is the way of this Government. That is the way I would hope that my ministry will demonstrate to the Aboriginal people, and beyond them to all Australians, as the way in which we must treat these people who are our equals as citizens; people who have the same rights as you and I; people who deserve the same support as you and I, and because of their particular position in society people who must receive special treatment from Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The Attorney-General did send out a telegram during the election campaign. The honourable member referred to so-called cuts. Let me make it quite plain that what this Government is about is to see that whatever money is spent on Aboriginal affairs goes to the right place, to the right people, and with the greatest measure of financial efficiency. Regrettably in the past under the Administration of which the honourable member who asked the question and his predecessors were a part, that was not always the case. As I have gone around Australia so many Aboriginal people have made the point to me that the money has not been getting to them at the grass roots level. So a measure of this Government's administration will be the extent to which it can reverse that pattern. The Government knows full well that if the Aboriginal people are to overcome their past disadvantage they have to get real value for money that is spent on them. That will be the objective of this Government. 
-Pursuant to section 9 ( 1 ) of the Education Research Act 1970, 1 present the annual reports of the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education for 1973- 74 and 1974-75. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report tided 'Access to Education- an Evaluation of the Aboriginal Secondary Grants Scheme' together with a statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  relating to that report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the National Committee on Social Science Teaching Research and Development Grants for 1973-74 and 1974- 75 administered under the Education Research Act 1970. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974, 1 present a statement relating to financial assistance granted to the States in respect of that Act in the financial year 1974-75. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will give traditional Aborigines inalienable freehold title to land on reserves in the Northern Territory and provide machinery for them to obtain title to traditional land outside reserves. The coalition Parties' policy on Aboriginal affairs clearly acknowledges that affinity with the land is fundamental to Aborigines' sense of identity and recognises the right of Aborigines to obtain title to lands located within the reserves in the Northern Territory. The Bill gives effect to that policy and, further, will provide Aborigines in the Northern Territory with the opportunity to claim and receive title to traditional Aboriginal land outside reserves. The Government believes that this Bill will allow and encourage Aborigines in the Northern Territory to give full expression to the affinity with land that characterised their traditional society and gave a unique quality to their life. 
Most of us now appreciate more sensitively than in the past that traditional Aborigines think, feel and act about land according to a plan of life a world apart from ours. Traditional Aborigines associate identifiable groups of people with particular 'countries' or tracts of territory in such a way that the link was publicly reputed to express both spiritual and physical communication between living people and their 'dream time' ancestors and between the 'country' as it now is and the ' ancestral ' country which had been given its names, its physical features, its founding stocks of food and water, and its owners and possessors by the ancestors themselves. It is believed that ancestors left in each 'country' certain vital powers that, used properly by the right people, make that 'country' fruitful and ensure a good life for people forever. Everywhere there was a plan of life- a good and satisfying life- based on an identifiable and unmistakable group of people forming a descent group or 'clan', living with relation to an identifiable territory publicly recognised as the 'country' of the group because of the actions of ancestors who had left in each 'country' sacred memorials- the totems and totemic sites of which we hear so much- as proof of entitlement for, and to guide and discipline, their descendants. The depth of appeal that an Aboriginal's 'country' has for him can be gauged by the pictures he may paint, the songs he may sing, the stories he may tell and the dances he may perform.  His  'country'- no matter how stricken a wilderness it may seem to others- is to him a Canaan, from which his spirit came and where he wants his bones to rest. In the Northern Territory Aboriginal communities still wanting to maintain and live by their culture and social forms involving land in the sense I have described will be enabled by this Bill to do so. 
Let me refer briefly to the origins of this Bill. In January 1972 the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon),  in a statement on Aboriginal affairs said that his Government 'understands fully the desire of the Aboriginal people to have their affinity with the land with which they have been associated recognised by law '. He said: 
We are deeply concerned to enable them ... to have some security in their relationship with the land and, in particular, to give continuing Aboriginal groups and communities the opportunity of obtaining an appropriate  title  under Australian law over lands on reserves which they are interested in to use and develop for economic and social purposes. 
This Bill will achieve that aim. In February 1 973, the former Government appointed an Aboriginal Land Rights Commissioner,  Mr Justice  A. E. Woodward, to inquire into and report on 'the appropriate means to recognise and establish the traditional rights and interests of the Aborigines in and in relation to land, and to satisfy in other ways the reasonable aspirations of the Aborigines to rights in or in relation to land' in the Northern Territory.  Mr Justice  Woodward presented his first report in July of that year and in it recommended that a northern and a central land council be established to consider the preliminary views he set down in that report, and to present to him, with expert legal advice, the views of the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory on their land rights.  Mr Justice  Woodward presented his second and final report in April 1974. One of his principal recommendations was that 'the Aboriginal people themselves must be fully consulted about all steps proposed to be taken'. In the months that followed, the land councils, in consultation with the communities they represent, considered and criticised the proposals of the Royal Commission and submitted their views to government on the proposals. In essence, although the Commission did not fully endorse the submissions made by the land councils, the Aboriginal people accepted the scheme of land rights proposed by the Commission and urged that legislative effect be given to it as soon as possible. 
Honourable members are well aware that a Bill introduced last October lapsed with the dissolution of the Parliament. Since my oppointment I have received numerous submissions on the proposed legislation and had many discussions with aborigines and others, including members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and representatives of other interested groups in the Territory, and I have carefully considered their submissions, the recommendations of the Land Rights Commission and the terms of the legislation previously introduced to give effect to those recommendations. This Bill represents the results of careful consideration and many hours of discussion. The intention is, however, that it should be available for public scrutiny, by the Aboriginal people and others in the Northern Territory and elsewhere, before it is debated further in this House. It is not intended that the rights to be established by this legislation should be watered down but that out of public scrutiny and whatever amendments may be required the best practicable instrument for effectuating the Government's purpose and Aboriginal aspirations will be arrived at. I would welcome constructive comment and suggestions on the content of what is a complex piece of legislation and one of the most important Bills which this Parliament has considered. The Government will take all representations into account in arriving at the  Anal  form of the legislation. 
It is relevant to draw honourable members' attention to a closely parallel proposal for the recognition of the land and sea rights of the Eskimo people of Canada which is now before the Government of that country. Though some of the Indian people of Canada, as of the United States of America, earlier had some recognition of their rights in land through treaties, the Eskimo people, like the Aborigines of the Northern Territory, have had no legal recognition of their traditional rights in the domestic law of their country. Recently, the Canadian Govern- . ment assisted the Eskimo Brotherhood- much in the way the Australian Government assisted the Northern and Central Land Councils- to prepare, with expert research assistance and legal advice, a proposal for the recognition of their traditional interests in their land and the adjacent seas which are so important for their livelihood. Last October the Brotherhood submitted farreaching proposals which are at present being considered by the Government before negotiations begin on the terms of the claims made by the Eskimo people. The Eskimo proposals, like the scheme encompassed by this Bill, provide for the grant of title in lands now available so that the Eskimo may enjoy the traditional use of what they consider 'their' land and do not seek monetary compensation for land that may have been alienated. 
Let me explain some of the fundamental aspects of the Bill. 
Land Trusts 
This Bill provides that the lands described in the Schedule being existing reserves and the Hermannsburg and Santa Teresa missions in Central Australia and the Delissaville area near Darwin will be vested in Aboriginal land trusts, composed entirely of Aborigines living in the area concerned, who will hold title on behalf of the traditional owners and those other Aborigines entitled by Aboriginal tradition to use and occupy those lands. The Government will continue to explore the possibility of the title being held directly by the traditional owners themselves. It is an aim of the Government eventually to achieve this goal but the concept presents considerable legal and practical difficulties. The trusts will be title holding bodies whose actions will be directed by the traditional owners through Land Councils. Moreover, the creation of these, Land Trusts will achieve the primary objective of any Land Trust scheme which is the vesting, under Australian law, of rights corresponding with traditional Aboriginal rights, without risk that the rights conferred are not sufficient to cover traditional Aboriginal rights. I cannot over-emphasise the importance of this last mentioned aspect of land rights. It is a fundamental change in social thinking in Australia to recognise that within our community there are some people, the Aborigines, who live by a unique and distinct system of customary law. 
Land Councils 
The Land Councils will have important functions in relation to Aboriginal land but we are committed to ensure that they act on the advice and with the consent of the traditional owners so that primary control over Aboriginal land lies with the traditional owners. The Land Councils will represent Aboriginal traditional owners in negotiations over land use, over mineral developments, and the many other matters involved in the administration of Aboriginal land. The Land Councils will not, however, be responsible for bringing forward claims for land outside the reserves. Land Councils will be the administrative agents of the traditional owners and their success will depend on the extent to which they reflect Aboriginal opinion and translate Aboriginal wishes into action. It is because Land Councils have this specialist role that the Government considered it would be more appropriate for other Aboriginal organisations such as the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service to assist in the formulation and presentation of claims for recognition of traditional Aboriginal land. 
Land Commissioner 
The Bill provides for an Aboriginal Land Commissioner who shall be a judge of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory. The Commissioner will investigate and report on claims to land which lies outside reserves on traditional grounds, being claims in respect of vacant Crown land and/or alienated land. The Bill by clause 47 requires the Land Commissioner to inquire into the likely extent of traditional land claims by Aborigines to alienated Crown land and to report to the Minister, from time to time, the results of his inquiries. By that means an orderly and progressive assessment can be made by the Government of any traditional land claims to alienated areas such as pastoral leases. Applications for land on the basis of need will be dealt with by the ordinary governmental processes involving the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs and the Northern Territory. One of the early tasks for the commissioner will be the consideration of the strength of traditional claims to the pastoral leases held by Aboriginal groups- not only the properties of Kildurk and Willowra, which  Mr Justice  Woodward considered in his report, but the property held by the Gurindji group at Wave Hill, and the several other properties recently bought for Aboriginal communities by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission or now being purchased by the Commission. 
This Bill deals with the recognition of traditional land rights and it is proper that the traditional claims of all groups to land outside the reserves should be assessed by the Commissioner and dealt with according to the procedures laid down in the Bill rather than by the arbitrary decision of any government. The Government will be anxious to see the speedy resolution by the Land Commissioner of claims to the 3 properties, Willowra, Kildurk and Wave Hill. To that end I would expect the Land Commissioner, in considering the claims, to take account of the history of the properties and of the views expressed by  Mr Justice  Woodward. 
Mining 
Mineral exploration and development will be allowed in Aboriginal land only with the  consent  of the Aboriginals. This important provision allows a level of protection hitherto unknown over land held by Aborigines and will allow them to consider mining plans carefully before they assent to exploration. Where consent is withheld, the Bill provides for an independent inquiry on the basis of which the Government may determine whether the national interest requires that exploration in mining can proceed. Where Aborigines have agreed to mineral exploration we would expect, as  Mr Justice  Woodward proposed, that development of any economic discovery made would follow, subject only to agreement on terms and conditions. Land councils will be able to negotiate agreements, including provisions for financial benefit and compensation, in consideration for the giving of consent to mining but will not give that consent unless the traditional owners agree. Where negotiations or terms break down, the Bill provides for an arbitrator to be appointed to determine a fair agreement, as recommended by  Mr Justice  Woodward. With the added safeguard for Aborigines, miners and government of an independent inquiry in the difficult and delicate area of national interest, the provisions relating to mining on Aboriginal land are in accord with the broad statement of principles outlined by me to representatives of the mining industry last March. I look forward to the co-operation and goodwill of the mining industry in seeing that these provisions work in a fair and practical way. 
Royalties 
Under the provisions of the Bill Aborigines will continue to receive royalties from mining operations on Aboriginal land. It will be for the Government to determine the proportion of royalty that will be payable to Aborigines in excess of the current rates, fixed by law, should the Government determine that a higher rate of royalty will apply to particular minerals. 
Preservation of Existing Rights 
Existing rights in land will be fully protected. Land scheduled in the Bill, over which an existing lease has been granted, will become Aboriginal land, with the title being held in abeyance, until the lease expires. This provision protects the rights of those holding leases on Aboriginal land, like the mining companies at Gove and Groote Eylandt and the mission at Hermannsburg, while ensuring that the title can pass into Aboriginal hands when the lease expires or when the holder negotiates its surrender and the issue of a new lease from the Land Trust. 
Changes in Bill 
The main differences between this Bill and that presented last October by the previous Government are, briefly, that: We have clearly defined the nature of the Aboriginal land rights we are recognising by vesting title in trusts for the benefit of all those Aborigines with traditional rights to use and occupy that land- 1 might add, a fundamental provision strangely missing in the Labor Government's Bill. The functions and powers of the land councils have been more clearly stated to express the wishes of the Aboriginal people themselves and the predominant position of the traditional owners has been denned. We have provided for an inquiry to be made where Aboriginal consent to mining is withheld and where it may be appropriate in the national interest to over-ride Aboriginal wishes; we have also provided for an arbitrator to be appointed where Aborigines and mining com- panies are unable to reach agreement on terms or mining development; and the Bill gives scope for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to participate in this most important legislative process in particular in relation to the protection of sacred sites, in measures to protect wildlife in Aboriginal lands, in the control of entry into those lands and adjacent waters and in the handling of applications for land to meet the needs of Aborigines in towns and other areas where traditional claims cannot be established. 
I have received assurances from the Leader of the Legislative Assembly that the Assembly is fully prepared to co-operate in the introduction of complementary legislation in these areas which accords with the spirit of this Bill. There will be full consultation with the Territory Assembly and between the Assembly and the Aborigines in preparing Territory legislation. I will be starting that consultation next week in Alice Springs and Darwin. It will be my objective to have complementary legislation ready, if that is at all possible, in time to have it passed contemporaneously with the final passage of this Bill in the Budget session of this Parliament. 
Some people have watched with interesteven suspicion- the statements which have been made by the Government on its intentions to legislate for land rights. Some have expressed surprise that a Liberal-Country Party government should have made the decision to grant land rights to Aborigines in the Northern Territory. Let there be no more suspicion. Let there be no more surprise, because the Government's proposals to recognise Aboriginal land rights in legislation is one more expression of the Government's commitment to liberal and progressive reform. It is the objective of the Government to secure conditions in which all Australians can realise their own goals in life-to find fulfilment in their own way- consistent with the interests of the whole Australian community. 
The Australia we, as a Government, look to is one in which there is diversity and choice, because it is in diversity that people can pursue the lives they want in ways that they determine. Securing land rights to Aborigines in the Northern Territory is a significant expression of this objective. It is an objective that will be pursued in a way consonant with the rights of other Australians. I am sure this progressive step will be studied with interest in the States with respect to their land. This Bill is a major step forward for Aborigines in the Northern Territory not only for this generation but also for future generations who will benefit from it. They will have a land base that will be preserved in perpetuity. The introduction of legislation to grant land rights in the Northern Territory is an essential, progressive measure in the social and political history of Australia. It gives me great pleasure to commend to honourable members, a BUI so important to all Australians, so desired by the Aboriginal people of Australia as this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bryant)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All National Aboriginal Consultative Committee members are entitled to employ an electoral secretary and to have an electoral office and associated furniture and equipment. Not all members have taken up these entitlements and some operate from the premises of existing Aboriginal community organisations or from their own homes. Others have declined offers of office space. 
The following members do not have an electoral office: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Financial assistance has been neither sought from nor offered by the Government. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Funds for non-Government schools in the electorate of Batman are made available under programs administered by the Department of Education and the Schools Commission. 
Programs Administered by the Department of Education 
Funds administered by the Department of Education were made available under the following acts: 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department does not have information on the school population in the Electoral Division ofBatman. However the honourable member might refer to my answer to Question No. 720  (Hansard2.6.76page  2913). 
Expenditure on non-government schools in the Batman electorate was outlined in my reply to Question No. 665. Expenditure on Government schools is not available to me. 
Expenditure on non-government schools for 1975 and 1976 to date in the electoral divisions of Kooyong and Higgins is not readily available. I shall arrange for details to be forwarded to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have decided not to proceed with a Royal Commission in respect of Aboriginal/Police relations in the Northern Territory. 1 refer the honourable member to my ministerial statement, on the tabling of the report of the Laverton Royal Commission on 5 May, in which I mention action already in train or being considered in respect of Aboriginal/Police relations in the Northern Territory and throughout Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The recommendations contained in the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs on Unemployment: Special Work Projects are under active consideration by the Government and will be fully considered, together with other issues involved in the Aboriginal unemployment problem, on the basis of advice from a working party of officials of the Departments of Employment and Industrial Relations, Social Security and Aboriginal Affairs which has been established to review the problems and make recommendations on employment and training programs. None of the recommendations has been rejected. Recommendations 4 (a) and (b) concerning the employment of Aboriginals in the Commonwealth Public Service are under active consideration as part of a general review of the Public Service Board's policy on the employment of Aboriginals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recommendations fall into four categories- those seeking action by Government, by the Aboriginal people, by Nabalco, and those seeking joint action. 
Those recommendations seeking action by the Government, and the action which has been taken are; 1, 8, 12: The Machinery for achieving the intention of these recommendations will be available under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill when this Bill and complementary legislation to be enacted by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly become law. 10: There has been a marked increase in the number of people seeking permits to go beyond the mining lease boundary, where previously they would have breached the permit requirements; it is expected that legislation to be enacted by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, complementary to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern 
Territory) Bill, will make appropriate provisions in this regard. 14 and 15: These recommendations are under active consideration; it will also be appropriate for the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs to include questions such as this in its current examination of the question of alcohol and Aboriginals; I will await the outcome of the Standing Committee 's inquiry with interest 16: There has been an increase in the number of Aborigines undergoing training as nursing aides and health workers. Training is given at the new health centre at Yirrkala in preference to the base hospital at Nhulunbuy. There are Aboriginal health workers on all homeland centres and these are supported by visiting doctors and sisters who offer continuous on-the-job training. 17: The water supply from Yirrkala Creek is under constant surveillance by the local health officer; the water is of acceptable standard when regularly chlorinated. 1 8 and 1 9: A range of adult education and training courses is available to Aborigines at Yirrkala. In addition to Mission and Government staff involved in Social work (including working with Aboriginals assistants) there are two adult education teachers at Yirrkala. 
Those recommendations seeking action on the part of the Aboriginal community and the action which I am informed has been taken by the community are: 7: The Aboriginal community has established an incorporated body to represent the community's interests, including the receipt and disbursement of moneys generated by the mining project. 9: The Aboriginal incorporated body has invested approximately $20,000 in stocks and shares and is considering the purchase of the Government's shares (to the value of $70,000 ) in the Yirrkala brickworks. 1 1: The Aboriginal community is actively considering this recommendation which relates to a contentious matter within the community. 
Recommendations seeking action by Nabalco Pty Ltd and action which I am informed the company is taking in respect of those recommendations are: 3: The Company has adopted the practice of holding meetings with the Aboriginal community on an ad hoc basis when specific issues need to be discussed, rather than at tegular monthly intervals as was the earlier practice; these meetings are held at various locations appropriate to the subject under discussion. 4: The Company has provided a scale relief model which is temporarily located in its offices at Nhulunbuy but which will be housed at Yirrkala when suitable accommodation is available. 
S: The Company has been seeking to improve the effectiveness of its communication with the Aboriginal people and is prepared to meet with the Aboriginal people at any time or place nominated by them; the Aboriginal community is free to avail itself of whatever outside advice it considers necessary. 6: The Company  is  prepared to enter into direct negotiation as suggested by this recommendation; the arrangements for such negotiations at the appropriate time will be made in accordance with arrangements provided for in the Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill now before Parliament 
Those recommendations requiring joint action by all parties at Gove, and the action taken are: 2: Such negotiations will be possible under arrangements to be provided in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill now before Parliament. 13: The present red mud disposal areas were established as pilot projects but have continued in use pending negotiations of further leases for red mud disposal; the effects of red mud disposal on the environment are being taken into account in the consideration of the Company's further requirements; the appropriate Government Departments, the Aboriginal community and the Company are involved in these negotiations. 20: Since the report of the Committee the following action has taken place: 
Yirrkala is now connected by cable to the Nhulunbuy/Darwin troposcatter telephone system and there is a number of telephones available at Yirrkala, including a public telephone. 
A broadcast repeater station has been opened at Nhulunbuy and it relays programs of the ABC. The location of the repeater was chosen to enable the repeater to serve both Yirrkala and Nhulunbuy. 
With Government funding and Company cooperation the local television system was upgraded so that reception is possible both at Yirrkala and Dhupuma 21: All communities likely to be affected by the proposed Arnhem Highway have been and continue to be consulted about its location. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 have no knowledge of such a proposal from  Mr McLeod. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have seen newspaper reports on the matter. 
1 understand that the agreement between the producer of the film and Actors' Equity contains a legally binding clause stating that wages for the Aboriginal extras shall be paid to the tribe and/or individuals who earned them. 
No action is necessary. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Treasurer to question number 526,  Hansard  26 May 1976, page 2525. 
Blackleg in Rape Crops (Question No. 560) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Recruitment within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is handled in general by one person in Central Office and is supervised by one officer in each Regional Office. None of the staff of the agencies responsible to me is engaged full-time in recruiting activities. 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs does not use private agencies to recruit staff. 
The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies has in the past used private agencies to engage secretarial staff, but has latterly ceased to do so. 
Aboriginal Arts &amp; Crafts Pty Ltd has used private employment agencies or consultants to recruit staff on only two occasions. 
Aboriginal Hostels Ltd has engaged private employment agencies to a limited extent. 
Applied Ecology Pty Ltd has used private employment agencies for recruitment of staff on four occasions since it commenced operation in 1 973. 
Payments by the above bodies to employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75 are as follows: 
The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) At the time the honourable member asked his question there were some 2700 students whose applications had been conditionally approved but to whom no payment of benefits had been made. Payment of benefits to these students was dependent upon their providing additional information relating to such matters as examination results, course enrolments and income details. The additional information was required so that either the level of a student's entitlement could be determined or his eligibility could be confirmed. 
and (3) No significant delays have been caused by staff reductions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The area of land in the present claim of the Ngaringman group at Yarralin is approximately 90 square miles or 140 square kilometres. No valuation by the Valuer General has yet taken place in respect of the land. 
The Interim Land Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Ward has advised that his recommendations on the claim will be presented to me shortly for consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total number of Aborigines registered for employment with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations at 2 April 1976 was 10 335. For a number of reasons, including the isolation of many Aboriginal communities, and the lack of awareness among Aborigines of their unemployment benefits entitlements, many Aborigines do not register for employment and the actual number unemployed may well be substantially greater. My Department estimates, on the basis of 1971 Census data, that the number of Aborigines now in the labour force is a little under 35 000. More satisfactory figures will be available in due course from the 1976 Census. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ). The Report has been considered by the Aboriginal Affairs Co-ordinating Committee of Western Australia and recommendation 7 (a) of the Report, for an expansion of the Co-ordinating Committee's membership, and recommendation 7 (b) for establishment of a Health Subcommittee, have been implemented. 
The functional departments have also examined the report with a view to determining the practicability of implementing the recommendations. A summary of action to date on each of the other recommendations follows: 
The formal procedure for co-ordination and consultation provided under the terms of the Western Australian Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority Act is being implemented to the extent possible with the limited staff available. The Perth Aboriginal Affairs Co-ordinating Committee meets monthly as do the five subsidiary area coordinating committees outside the metropolitan area. Consultation at the local community level takes place at Consultative Committee meetings held twice yearly in each of the seven areas into which the State is divided for administrative purposes. 
The Aboriginal Medical Service field staff consult at a training level with major hospitals and liaise with Community Health Services field staff informally. Community Health Services has recently conducted seminars for field staff in Kalgoorlie and Port Hedland which should promote more effective consultation in the future. The Community Health Services Director is a member by standing invitation of the Medical Committee of the Aboriginal Medical Service. 
Community Health Services, with an increased Aboriginal field staff, has local contact with communities throughout the State. 
This recommendation is being implemented progressively. Community Health Services is making a baseline health study of Aboriginal people. 
The recommendation has been implemented in part. Community Health Services conduct Health Education programs in schools and the Education Department is currently reviewing the effectiveness of the program. ( 
The Aboriginal Medical Service provides health education at the AMS Centre. Subsidised lunch schemes are operating at Gnowangerup and Wiluna and other self-supporting schemes are being organised in a number of other centres. 
The terms of this recommendation are now receiving priority attention from the Aboriginal Affairs Co-ordinating Committee Health sub-committee which includes representatives of the Alcohol and Drug Authority, Community Health Services and the Department for Community Welfare. 
The New Era Aboriginal Fellowship has established a 'Half-way House' (St Norbett's Centre). An Aboriginal Medical Service alcoholic program works in conjunction with this Centre by referring patients through a social worker. 
The Alcohol and Drug Authority has completed a  film  on some aspects of alcoholism in Kalgoorlie as a preliminary step. Future developments will depend on available funds ana staff resources. 
The Alcohol and Drug Authority in conjunction with Community Health Services, Department of Corrections, Aboriginal Medical Service and Aboriginal organisations is developing proposals for management and treatment of habitual drinkers. 
and 10. These issues are being considered by an Interdepartmental Committee comprising the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs, Social Security, and Employment and Industrial Relations. 
1. A program of closing down reserves is dependent upon funding for town housing. Agreement has been reached between the State Housing Commission and the Department for Community Welfare to give priority in towns where reserve closure is planned and applicants appear to have potential. Houses for use as training centres have been offered to the Department for Community Welfare by the State Housing Commission. 
This recommendation has been implemented. The Department for Community Welfare has indicated its intention to appoint as many homemakers as are required subject only to the availability of suitable personnel. 13 (a) This recommendation has been implemented in part. Views of Aboriginal people in local communities, as well as the Aboriginal Affairs Co-ordinating Committee are being sought on housing solutions but progress must depend on the availability of funds. 
This recommendation has not been accepted by the State Housing Commission. The Commission does obtain views of other agencies, including the Department for Community Welfare but does not accept that any other agency can determine standards for tenants. 
The Housing Commission is continuing to decentralise its operations as and when practicable. 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs is kept informed through the Aboriginal Affairs Co-ordinating Committee of any opposition by local government. The State Housing Commission has resolved difficulties with some local authorities, enabling an intended program for 1976-77 to be formulated. The State Housing Commission is continuing to negotiate with authorities still raising objections. 16. (a) Effective consultation takes place between Adult Education, Technical Education of W.A., Education Department and Aboriginal communities. Health and hygiene courses are available. 
The Department of Education is now reviewing the health education program for schools and communities in conjunction with the Community Health Services with a view to upgrading the service as required. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs funds approved programs. 
Aboriginal Teacher Aides have been appointed where required throughout the State, as well as two Aboriginal Liaison Officers- one in Kalgoorlie and one in Port Hedland. The appointment of additional officers is subject to the availability of funds. 
Effective implementation of this recommendation has not been possible as funds available to both authorities have been limited. 
The Aboriginal Affairs Co-ordinating Committee has authorised its Health Sub-committee to invite the Community Recreation Council to participate in its activities. 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs has a policy of promoting such Centres but funds for this purpose are extremely limited. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for asking the question which allows me to explode the statement made in a particular newspaper. It is quite incorrect that one thousand or anywhere near that number of Aborigines will be unemployed as a result of the decisions announced by the Treasurer. In fact the Government has made arrangements during the Supply period to provide funds to enable employment to be continued at the same levels. As the Treasurer said last night, reviews are being undertaken in fundamental areas of Aboriginal affairs programs- notably housing and enterprisesand these are 2 areas where there is large employment particularly in remoter communities. 
The Government recognises its obligation to Aboriginals and to the community at large to see that where money is spent in areas like this it is spent wisely, effectively and efficiently. That is why the Government has undertaken these fundamental reviews. As the Treasurer has said, when those reviews are completed, additional funds will be provided, because we recognise that in these areas of housing and employment the Aboriginal people are disadvantaged. There is a high level of unemployment already amongst them- too high a level. What we want to do is to introduce programs which are soundly based, soundly administered and will provide real benefit to the Aboriginal people. 
The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Fees assistance in respect of students at certain non profit making private institutions is not provided under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. This assistance is provided under a separate program. It is true however that all the full-time courses approved for fees assistance are also approved for living allowance payments under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. 
In 1975 there were ten private business colleges receiving fees assistance on behalf of their students. In November and December 1975 an additional eight institutions were approved for fees assistance for 1976. However, in view of the economic situation it was decided between November and December that no further institutions would be approved. Since 13 December 1975 eleven business colleges have been advised that no further courses or colleges will be approved for fees assistance. There is also a number of other colleges (exact numbers are not known) which have generally inquired about the possibility of gaining approval and what steps were involved. They too have been advised that no further colleges will be approved for 1 976. 
In 1975 the following colleges received fees assistance: 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Statistics quoted in this answer relate to 1975, the latest year for which statistics are available. 
16 988 persons were enrolled in higher degree courses. Statistics on the total number of persons enrolled in second degree courses are not available. However statistics show that approximately 2000 persons commencing bachelor degrees had already obtained a degree. 

6418. 
1902. 
No official statistics are available. My Department estimates that approximately 1000 overseas students are attending these institutions. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The only direct assistance paid to government schools in the Prospect electorate by the Schools Commission was under the Innovations Program. One school, Greystanes High School, received a grant of $4,680 in 1 974. 
It is not possible to supply further information in respect of payments to individual government schools. The Commonwealth Government provides bulk funding to the New South Wales Government for government schools programs to disburse on a needs basis as it sees fit. Payments to nongovernment schools in the electorate are set out in the attached table. 
The honourable member has asked for a large amount of detail. I have certain information in my hands at the moment, but I think it would be better for me to refer the matter to the Minister concerned so that he can give the honourable member a detailed reply today. 
Pursuant to section 15 of the Universities Commission Act 1959-1974 I present the Universities Commission report for the triennium 1977-1979, together with a statement by the Minister for Education relating to that report. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Schools Commission Act 1973 I present the Schools Commission report for the triennium 1977-1979, together with a statement by the Minister for Education relating to that report. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Technical and Further Education Commission Act 1975 I present the report of the Technical and Further Education Commission for the triennium 1977-1979, together with a statement by the Minister for Education relating to that report. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Student Assistance Act 1973 I present the report on the operation of that Act in 1975. 
Pursuant to section 52 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act 1972-1976 I present the annual report on the operation of that Act for the year ended 3 1 December 1 975. 
Pursuant to section 15 of the Commission on Advanced Education Act 1971-1973, I present the report of the Commission on Advanced Education for the Triennium 1977-1979, together with a statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  relating to that report. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information, which is supplementary to that contained in his answer on 3 June 1976 (Hansard, pages 30 14-21) to  Mr E.  G. Whitlam: 
Standing Committee on Agriculture- The composition of this committee includes the representatives of all the State departments responsible for agriculture. 
Standing Committee on Fisheries- The composition of this committee includes the representatives of all the State departments responsible for fisheries. 
Fisheries Council- The composition of this council includes the Minister for Science. 
Housing Research Council Research Advisory CommitteeThe composition of this committee includes principal officers (or their nominees) of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Experimental Building Station of the Department of Construction, the CSIRO Division of Building Research and each State housing authority. 
Australian Water Resources Council- The composition of this council includes the Minister in each State primarily concerned with water resources, the Minister for the Northern Territory and the Minister for National Resources. 
A number of nutritional programs for children are under way in the Northern Territory. Some communities have expressed the desire that these supplementary meal programs be not continued because they want to cook and supply the meals themselves. So in certain instances they have expressly requested that the programs be not continued. The supplementary food program for children is under review by me in conjunction with my colleague the Minister for Health. When this review has been completed decisions will be made by the Government as to the level at which the programs will be supported in the future. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Aboriginal Land Fund Act 1974 I present the first annual report and financial statements of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for the period ending 30 June 1975. 
The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Government is aware that allowances for tertiary students have not been increased for some time and that the value of these allowances has been eroded by the effects of inflation. The Minister for Education has received representations from a number of interested persons and organisations concerning the level of allowances. 
As the Treasurer announced in his budget speech an urgent investigation has been initiated into the adequacy of existing rates of benefits under the Government 's schemes of student assistance. The level of benefits payable under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme in 1977 will be determined in the light of this investigation. The Government's decisions in this regard will be announced in October. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the meeting of the Australian Education Council held in Cairns during 8 and 9 July 1976. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to my answer to Question No. 720  (Hansard,  2 June 1976, page 2913). 
The Minister for Eduction has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to my answer to Question No. 907  (Hansard,  25 August 1976, page 595). 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report of the Working Party on Languages and Linguistics to the Universities Commission entitled  Languages and Linguistics in Australian Universities,  together with a statement by the Minister for Education relating to that report. 
I really wonder what credibility the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has, particularly as a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs! when he is so inaccurate in so many of the statements that he makes that it is unbelievable. Let me just point out a few of his mis-statements. He speaks not only of a reduction in moneys provided for publications but says that no money is provided this year for publications. If he read the Budget papers he would see and he would know that that particular vote has been transferred to the Aboriginal Arts Board and is funded by the Board and not through my Department. He speaks of a reduction of 70 per cent in the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. If he read the Budget papers he would know that there is not now a trust account. What the Government has done has been to abolish the Trust Account and to reinstate the usual appropriation by line items. What credibility can there be in the speech made by the honourable member in his endeavour to attack the Government when his facts are so palpably wrong? He speaks of the appropriation for ecology projects. He says there has been a cut in the allocation. Does he not even read the Budget papers? They will show him that there has been a slight increase from a little over $800,000 to $900,000. 
The honourable member speaks about the research which has largely been done through the Institute of Aboriginal Studies. Has he not read the Budget Papers? The amount of money appropriated in the Budget for research, in round figures, is $ 1 .9m, which is the same as that provided last year. The honourable member refers to a reduction in expenditure on Aboriginal medical services. Has he not read the Budget Papers and seen that, in fact, there has been a slight increase in the appropriation this year? He speaks of a reduction in the amount of money provided for the Aboriginal legal aid services. Has he not read. the Budget Papers and seen that, in round terms, the same amount of money is being provided for those services this year as was provided last year? Where is the credibility of the honourable member? He speaks of this Government's failure to implement a recommendation of a committee of this House to expand special works projects. Has he not read the Budget Papers and seen that this year the Government has increased the allocation for employment support programs by $1.56m, underwriting the special works projects funded by my Department? If the honourable gentleman had read the Budget Papers and had understood the policies of the Government he would have realised that the provision of an increase of $1.56m in the expenditure under that item reflects the concern which this Government has for overcoming the unemployment problem amongst Aborigines. 
The Government is also concerned to see that its programs are implemented on a basis which will provide training for Aborigines and a real prospect of permanent employment after the special works projects' have, been completed. The honourable member for Hughes criticises the Government for failing to take steps to transfer special works projects to the Department of Employment" and- Industrial Relations, as recommended by the committee. Is he not aware of statements that I have made that I and my colleagues, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  -and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  have under discussion the results of a report by a working party into special works projects. It investigated, amongst other things, training programs, vocational training and general employment support for Aborigines. I set up the working party earlier this year after receiving a letter from the Mowanjum community in the north-west of Western Australia. The people were concerned at the serious social effects of the receipt of unemployment benefits within the community and desired to see whether there was some way in which those benefits could' be pooled and then used by the community for beneficial work projects within its settlement. As a result of that request my colleagues and I set up this working party. Senior officers have been working on this project. The report of the working party was given to me at the beginning of June, and only last week I and my colleagues, with senior officers, got together to consider it. It will be a matter for further consideration and, in due course, a submission to the Cabinet. Those, amongst others, are the plain unadulterated mistakes made by the honourable member for Hughes, a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The merest examination of the Budget Papers, the smallest understanding of the figuring in those Budget Papers, would have shown him immediately where he was wrong. So much for . the way in which the honourable member must have administered the Department in his time. 
My colleague the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  certainly sent the telegram referred to. It was sent in good faith at a time when we did not believe the Treasury of the nation to be in as bad shape as we found it when we so devastatingly won the election. It was necessary then to examine the expenditure of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, along with all other departments, to see where savings could be made without causing hardship, thereby easing the burden on the Treasury. We were, as honourable members know, faced with a prospect of a Budget deficit running towards $5,000m, and maybe beyond. The Government took hold of the economy, straightened out public expenditure and then implemented other programs to bring back some sanity into the economic management of this country. 
I will refer to some of the points that are mentioned in the telegram to the Attorney-General. It says that funds will continue to be made available for housing, education, employment, health and legal aid- and so they have been. Later I will mention matters specific to housing and education. I have referred already to employment, health and legal aid. The telegram also says that pensions payable to Aboriginal people will not be cut and will rise automatically twice a year with cost of living increases. That promise has been thoroughly honoured. It says that all available funds will be shared amongst Aboriginal communities on a fair and impartial basis. That is being achieved by a series of programming conferences instituted within the States in the regional administration of my Department. These inititatives will have far reaching importance for Aboriginal organisations and communities. They will give them a real say in the distribution of moneys provided by the Commonwealth Government. The telegram goes on to say that a Liberal-National Country Party government will support Aboriginal organisations such as those providing the Aboriginal medical and legal services. The Government has done so. I have gone out of my way to inform the organisations operating in both those fields that they will continue to function as autonomous services, run by Aborigines for Aborigines. I propose, in the near future, to hold a conference of people representing all legal services in order to discuss the future charter of those services. 
The telegram says that the Government will hold an urgent inquiry into the role of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee to determine whether it can be given a more important role in dealing with Aboriginal affairs. This has been done. Honourable members will recall the inquiry that was instituted earlier this year, headed by an eminent anthropologist,  Dr Les  Hiatt,  Chairman  of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, and supported by 3 Aborigines. This is the first time, I believe, that such an inquiry about Aboriginal affairs has included among its membership a clear preponderance of Aborigines. That in itself indicates the strength of the Government's conviction that the success of Aboriginal programs will in the end result from the involvement and participation of Aborigines themselves, particularly in the making of recommendations to the Government on national policy. 
I am quite sure that out of this inquiry will emerge an NACC which knows what its future is, what its objectives are and the basis upon which it can advise the national government on policies affecting Aboriginals and which will be given effective support by the Government. None of those objectives were achieved under the administration of the 2 former Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs who are in this House, one of whom set up the NACC. Aboriginals themselves realised that the NACC was rudderless. This Government intends to give the NACC a rudder and a sense of direction. The telegram goes on to say that efforts will be made to increase the number of Aboriginal people involved in Aboriginal affairs. That has been a hallmark of what I have endeavoured to do since I have been Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, reflecting, as it does, the clear philosophical commitment contained in the Liberal-National Country Party statement on Aboriginal affairs policy. The policy states: 
The Liberal and National Country parties recognise that if a policy of self-management is to be effective, Aborigines must play a leading role in their affairs. This will include Aborigines playing a significant role: 
in setting the long term goals and objectives which the government should pursue and the programs it should adopt in such areas as Aboriginal education, housing, health, employment and legal aid; 
b ) in setting the priorities for expenditure on Aboriginal affairs within the context of overall budget allocations; and 
in evaluating existing programs and formulating new ones. 
The initiative taken to conduct the inquiry into the NACC is in pursuance of that policy statement. The formation of a National Aboriginal Education Consultative Committee by my colleague the Minister for Education is also in fulfilment of that policy obligation. Furthermore, if the honourable member for Hughes examines the figures for direct Australian Government expenditure on Aboriginal assistance he will see that in key areas such as health and education there has been a decrease in the amount of money appropriated to State government departments in these areas and a complementary increase in the amount of money going to Aboriginal organisations. That, again, is in fulfilment of our philosophic belief that success in Aboriginal affairs will come about largely through involving Aborigines, Aboriginal organisations and Aboriginal communities in the activities of the Government. 
I refer further to the telegram of my colleague the Attorney-General. He said that employment and training schemes will be urgently investigated with the aim of increasing job opportunities for Aborigines throughout Australia. I have already mentioned the increase of $ 1.56m in the vote for employment support schemes. I have already referred to the working party which was instituted early in my administration. They are 2 positive steps in fulfilment of the statement contained in my colleague's telegram. I would add one other factor to show the commitment of the Government and that is that we have instituted within the special works program a section for private sector employment. We feel that it is no longer good enough simply to channel this kind of money into, for example, local authorities. We feel that we should be aiming to get private employers to accept Aborigines on a basis on which they will train the Aborigines and give them a real opportunity of permanent employment at the end of the particular project. This is a new initiative. Already we have seen quite exciting prospects for it and a readiness by private employers to embark upon this new field of employment support and training for Aborigines. So, in relation to my colleague saying something about spreading the word, it could be said that that word has been faithfully and honestly spread. 
Many percentages were cited by the honourable member for Hughes in his endeavour to embarrass the Government. I do not know where he obtained those percentages from, but they simply do not line up with the figures shown in the Budget. I invite honourable members opposite to do their own arithmetic and come up with figures of some accuracy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The inquiry which was conducted by  Mr Hay  was announced in February. He completed his inquiry in June and presented the report to me and to the Prime Minister. Since that time through interdepartmental committees we have been studying some of the recommendations contained in the report. I will be putting submissions to the Government very shortly for the provision of additional funds which the Treasurer in his Budget Speech, which I in this House and which the Prime Minister in this House and outside it, have said will be provided. The Government will be honouring that undertaking. Additional funds will be provided in due course when the Government makes decisions on the submissions that I put to it. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As indicated by the Treasurer in his Budget speech the question of the re-introduction of tertiary education fees for some categories of students is part of an urgent investigation now going on. The Government's decisions on this and other matters relating to student benefits will be announced in October. Until decisions are announced, it would be idle to speculate on how students might be affected. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Department of Education for 1975. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I have not issued a statement in Victoria regarding the supply of teachers in that State. On 26 July I made a statement in Bathurst on the Australia-wide position as indicated by a study undertaken by the Department of Education and the Education Commissions. That report suggested that unless a number of factors change there could be substantially more teachers available in future than government and non-government schools are likely to be able to employ. The report is a preliminary one and is under examination by a working party of the Australian Education Council. 
Press reports suggest that it is the specialist areas that are the main concern in Victoria at present. Sufficient data were not available for the Commonwealth's report to consider the situation for specialist teachers for whom it is possible that shortages could still persist even if an overall surplus emerged. 
The large majority of persons commencing courses of teacher education in 1 977 will be undertaking courses of at least three years duration. Those who successfully complete training will be eligible to seek positions as teachers in 1980 and later years. Because of the possibility of a considerable overall surplus developing throughout the next decade the Government thought it appropriate, pending the further analysis that is being undertaken, that the present total level of enrolments in teacher education should be regarded as a maximum. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Until the present investigation of student assistance, as mentioned by the Treasurer in the budget speech, is completed and decisions announced, no assumptions can be made about which of the categories of student referred to will be affected by any re-introduction of fees and from when the measure might apply. In any event, a number of detailed questions still under consideration could affect the extent of the savings to be expected from fee re-introduction. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian National University Act 1946 I present the report of the Council of the Australian National University for the calendar year 1 975. 
-I am glad to see that the honourable member acknowledges that diligence is a virtue. A minority of students entered upon a strike last week. I recall looking in the local newspaper in Western Australia the day after the day on which the strike was supposed to have been held and noting that such was the significance of the strike that nothing about it was reported in that newspaper. It is correct that the Minister for Education has undertaken a review of student allowances, including the tertiary allowance. The Treasurer reported in August that when that review was completed the Government would consider the result of that review and the Minister for Education would report on it. The Treasurer also said it was expected that the review would be completed by October and that the Minister for Education would be reporting early in October. I expect that the Minister will be doing just that. 
I thank my friend and honourable colleague for his question. This has been a matter to which governments of the past, both State and Federal, have directed their attention. Of course, it is rather invidious to look at the precentage of blood of one race or another in a person's veins and say whether that person is of one particular race or another. I wonder what the Irishman would say if he had a percentage of good Scottish Cameron blood coursing through his veins. Is he an Irishman or a Scotsman? For the purpose of a great number of our Aboriginal affairs programs, the definition of an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander is that he or she be a person of Aboriginal or Islander descent who identifies as an Aboriginal or Islander and who is accepted as such by the community with which he or she is associated. Having given that definition, I am reminded also of what is provided in the Queensland legislation, namely, that an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander is a descendant of an indigenous inhabitant, with no degrees of blood as a matter of consideration. 
For other purposes under the federal law, I will read the definitions for the information of the House. Under the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act 1974 and the Aboriginal Land Fund Act 1974, 'Aboriginal' means an indigenous inhabitant of Australia and includes an indigenous inhabitant of the Torres Strait 
Islands. The honourable member will see the direct comparison there with the present provisions of the Queensland legislation. For the purposes of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975, the definition of an Aboriginal is a person who is a member of the Aboriginal race of Australia. Some people would say that that definition is too broad and indefinite. But it is there for a very good legal reason, namely, to ensure that it comes within the provisions of the Australian Constitution. Therefore, for the purposes of the application of that Act, if anyone wants to dispute that a person is an Aboriginal it becomes a matter of law and of fact for the courts to determine. With those definitions being applied in specific cases to meet the nature of our programs and the nature of federal law, I do not think that the illwill which the honourable member thought might arise in fact will arise. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Council on Awards in Advanced Education for 1975. 
by leave- This is a statement on the provision of additional funds for Aboriginal affairs programs and publication of the report to the Government of  Mr D.  O. Hay, C.B.E, D.S.O., of the effectiveness of the services financed by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
When the Government brought down the Budget in August, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced that additional funds would be provided for Aboriginal affairs programs in the light of reviews then in progress. They have now been completed. These responsible and necessary reviews were prompted by allegations from many quarters that inefficient procedures and lax administration in some programs had led to waste and denial of real benefits for those whom the programs were designed to help. The fears that excessive administration costs and other expenses associated with consultants and poor planning were siphoning off- some would say ripping off'- too much money were not new. This concern was expressed by the present Government when in Opposition, as well as by many Aboriginal groups and organisations interested in Aboriginal welfare. 
Aboriginal assistance programs, as honourable members are aware, have in recent years received massive injections of funds, with each succeeding year showing ever increasing allocations in an attempt to relieve the very serious handicaps in housing, education, health and employment under which Australia's Aboriginal people suffer. The provision of large sums of money alone, however, is no panacea for all the ills that beset people so disadvantaged. To think otherwise will cause people to speak of dollars only as the measure of performance when a real social value for money spent is what should be looked for. 
When allegations of waste in governmentfunded programs are made it is the responsibility of government to respond and investigate them. Taking into account the importance this Government attaches to Aboriginal affairs, it was therefore vital that these investigations were carried out as soon as the Government came into office. I do not believe that the public, by and large, objects to the principle of channelling generous amounts of money into Aboriginal assistance programs. This support has in fact been clearly demonstrated by opinion polls. But in response to this principle and any government's endeavours to uplift Aborigines we want neither overindulgent idealism nor the over-zealous pursuit of economic efficiency. The one saps Aboriginal motivation and public support, the other frustrates the will to achieve and fails to recognise the social dynamics of lifting up a down-trodden people. At the same time there is no substitute for clear direction in long term goals mutually agreed with Aboriginals, and basic planning and sound administration of programs and projects to fulfill those goals. 
The public, whose money it is we are spending, is concerned that Aboriginal people are benefiting. Aborigines, also, are concerned that the funds available are being spent with greatest direct benefit to their people, and not lost along the way. It was this concern that led the Government to initiate a number of reviews into various aspects of Aboriginal affairs. The most farreaching of these reviews was that headed by  Mr David  Hay.  Mr Hay  was appointed by the Government last January to inquire into the effectiveness of the delivery of services to Aborigines by my Department. 
When I announced  Mr Hay's  appointment to conduct this inquiry I said that the purpose of the examination was to ensure that the funds being made available for the Aboriginal community were being spent for the maximum benefit of Aborigines. In view of much ill informed comment on the purpose and result of  Mr Hay's  inquiry it is well to recall to the House the terms of reference which were publicly announced at the time of his appointment. They were to assess the effectiveness of the services financed, to recommend improvements in the delivery of services and their financial arrangements in the interest of Aborigines and the community at large, and to establish whether there were any areas of waste and inefficiency. The emphasis, it will be seen, is upon the effectiveness of services delivered and the interest of Aborigines, a conjunction which is of course deliberate and a reflection of the Government's obligation towards the Aboriginal people. 

 Mr Hay completed his task and reported to the Prime Minister on 4 June. As a result of these inquiries, the Government has taken steps to tighten administration and has acted promptly to honour its promises, repeated many times, that more funds would be provided for Aboriginal affairs during the present financial year. It is now with satisfaction I can announce the Government has decided to provide an extra $2 5 m for Aboriginal programs this year, bringing the total available for expenditure to $ 177.6m during 1976-77. The additional money will be allocated to those programs where the greatest need has been established- in particular on urgently needed housing, through grants to the States and by direct grants to Aboriginal housing associations, and to stimulate employment opportunities. Although I have given emphasis to these 2 most crucial areas, the extra funds will be of benefit to all programs and will provide room for new initiatives which are under examination. When Aboriginal organisations and communities and the States have been advised, I will be in a position to provide details of the break up of the $25m. 
It is no coincidence that the provision of funds for housing has come under the closest scrutiny by the Hay and other inquiries. It is understandable that the temporarily reduced funds for housing alarmed and worried many people, not least those Aborigines in need of housing, for without adequate housing there can be only limited improvements in health, limited opportunity for children to succeed at school and limited hope of gaining regular employment. There is also little chance for the foundation of family stability and the growth of self-respect. This is the poverty cycle. To break it, housing must be provided. As one travels around Australia the thing which bears down upon one so heavily is housing and the constant reminder by the voice of the people and the sight of intolerable living conditions of the great cost to the future of what should have been done by society in the past. 
It is all the more important then for the Government to have the benefit of a report like  Mr Hay's  to provide a sound administrative foundation on which to build its liberal reform and welfare policies. In relation to the additional funds available to the States for housing it is my intention to formalise agreements with the State governments on the terms and conditions applying to their grants for Aboriginal housing programs. I am currently looking very closely at proposals on such agreements, keeping in mind the desirability of directly involving Aboriginal people themselves in such programs. The decision to increase finance to Aboriginal housing associations bears directly on the progress being made by many associations and the faith which die Government has in these programs, started under an earlier Liberal-Country Party administration, reflecting as they do the principles of self-management and self-sufficiency expressed in our Aboriginal affairs policy. To assist Aboriginals in this matter, the Department of Construction has offered its professional and technical assistance in the field, particularly in remote areas, in a consultant and supervisory role to help further development of Aboriginal housing association programs. 
In the field of employment and enterprisesother areas subjected to the closest scrutinyadditional funds will be made available to help alleviate the serious employment problems amongst Aboriginals and to support and stimulate realistic Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander enterprises which can lead to economic independence and self-reliance. In conjunction with my colleagues, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  I have been studying both short and long term measures which will be brought forward quickly for consideration by the Government including possible ways of converting the payment of unemployment benefits within communities into the funding of worthwhile work projects. These proposals will cover training for employment and the provision of job opportunities through suitable programs for Aboriginal communities especially in remote areas. The link between education and employment is possibly of greater importance to Aborigines than others as formal education is brought more within then- reach. It is a matter to which  Senator Carrick  and I are giving special attention. One of the recommendations of the Hay report in this field was the necessity to include training components in aid programs wherever possible in order to open up new opportunities for Aboriginals who might otherwise remain unskilled and unemployable. 
Although, as I have said, the 2 areas most to benefit from the additional funds are housing and employment, other smaller but important programs which have very substantial social benefits will also gain from an injection of more money this year. One such field is culture and recreation which  Mr Hay  found offered, for a comparatively small outlay, significant benefits to a large number of people. This decision, I know, will be welcomed by Aboriginal people, whose lives in many cases centre around the community hall and whose social contact with other Aboriginal groups is largely through the performance of their sporting teams. The provision of funds for these purposes can be instrumental in forming the nucleus for community development and, through this, selfesteem. I have seen a number of examples of Aboriginal community spirit matched by government funds producing just such self-esteem and a new sense of social involvement where previously Aborigines were out on the fringe. 
While speaking of community development, I would particularly mention the suggestion by  Mr Hay  of the compiling of community profiles. Such profiles will give the Government a better understanding of development through the totality of different programs meeting various needs in the one community. In this way, the task of assessment of success and particular requirements will be made much easier as well as contributing to the Government's determination to improve the co-ordination of operations throughout Aboriginal affairs. In working out the contents of community profiles, the family allowances received by a community will be taken into account. I should mention here that the family allowance scheme, which is estimated to provide $16m directly to Aboriginal families, is not regarded as a substitute for special Aboriginal programs. It will however have special significance for Aboriginal families. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out to the House on 25 August the family allowance scheme involves funds which go directly to Aboriginal families and gives them an independence and capacity to spend those funds as they believe best in their own interests. 
Another procedure which will contribute to the efficient and effective utilisation of funds is the Government's intention to exercise its right to inspect books of account of organisations through which its programs are carried out. This recommendation, contained in the Hay report, in no way implies that the Government intends to interfere with the autonomy of Aboriginal organisations nor does its decision to exercise this right reflect on the competence of the Aboriginal recipients of government funds. The advantages of this practice will be twofold- to provide a better and faster information flow to the Government by providing a means through which difficulties will be detected as soon as they arise, and by aiding Aboriginal people to become more confident of themselves in managerial procedures and administration as they are given more freedom and responsibility in handling programs. It will also involve Aborigines in the budgetary process for mutual agreement on how funds are to be used. 
The Government has accepted the further recommendation by  Mr Hay  that Aboriginal recipients of government finance should make a contribution by way of cash or by voluntary effort, as a normal condition of grants. In this way there will be a commitment on both sides in a co-operative effort geared to success. The close involvement of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in this way will also be reflected in our desire for a greater involvement by other specialised Government departments such as Social Security and Employment and Industrial Relations. I have already mentioned the willingness of the Department of Construction to act in a supervisory capacity to improve efficiency procedures in Aboriginal housing associations. 
In addition to the reviews I have mentioned which have been completed or are in progress, I have now instructed my Department to conduct a number of in-depth investigations into almost all other areas where Government funds are being spent, to better define objectives and refine administrative procedures against the background of  Mr Hay's  recommendations. These reviews will also ensure that funds allocated in this and future years will be used most effectively for direct benefit of Aborigines with as little administrative outlay as efficiency permits. In now allocating $25m more for Aboriginal assistance, the Government is honoring the Treasurer's Budget undertaking. It is also sticking by its resolution to see that the money available is being wisely spent. 
It is as well to remind ourselves that comparing the level of funding with that provided by a previous administration in past years is of little consequence. Comparisons of funding programs from one year to the next are not necessarily of greatest importance. What needs to be considered is whether the money available has been used to optimum effect, whether there has been a re-ordering of priorities or whether improved administrative re-arrangements have been achieved. An extra $3m was provided to the Aboriginal Loans Commission for housing because of the importance the Government places on home ownership. Grants-in-aid to the States for health and education programs were reduced and grants to Aboriginal organisations working in these fields increased because of our commitment to working through Aboriginal organisations. An extra $ 1.56m was provided for employment support programs which will enable funding support of a new initiative in placing Aborigines with private employers. The Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account was abolished in favour of normal line item appropriations and funding of some programs was transferred elsewhere, such as publications through the Aboriginal Arts Board now under the Arts Council. What is more important, I can assure you, is the intention of this Government to see that Aboriginal affairs programs directly relate to Aboriginal needs while increasing the involvement of Aborigines in the concept of selfmanagement. 
Sound administration of any Government program requires on-going reviews and evaluations. The first and most extensive of these reviews has been that conducted by  Mr David  Hay. The Government was fortunate in securing the services of  Mr Hay  who has a distinguished record as a diplomat and as Administrator of the Territory of Papua New Guinea from 1967 to 1973. The Government is indebted to him for his diligence and for the sensitivity and understanding he displayed in his conduct of the inquiry. 
I also wish to recognise, as  Mr Hay  has done in his report, the efficiency and dedication demonstrated by officers of my Department in assisting him during this period of intensive review. Also I would like to express my appreciation of the cooperation which  Mr Hay  also acknowledged of numerous other people involved in supplying information on which the report is based. Important among these are Aboriginal organisations and communities.  Mr Hay  s report and the reviews I have instituted are major steps towards fulfilling the commitment in the Government's Aboriginal Affairs policy statement to 'demolish unnecessary bureaucratic barriers between Aboriginals and the programs intended to assist them towards self management '. 
On August 26 1 was bold enough to say that it was a time for optimism not gloom in Aboriginal affairs. So it is and so it will continue to be under the present Government. A firm foundation has been laid upon which to go forward. In August, the Prime Minister told this House that the Government would make a decision as to whether the Hay report should be published when reviews were complete and action had been taken on what additional funds would be provided on the basis of those reviews.  Mr Speaker,  I now table  Mr Hay's  report on the review of the delivery of services financed by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
I thank honourable members for their participation in this debate on the estimates of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, following as it does my announcement this afternoon of the Government's decision to provide an additional $25m for expenditure on Aboriginal affairs- a decision of the Government in fulfilment of the clear undertaking by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech. He said that there were reviews of key areas of Aboriginal policy in progress and that when they were completed the Government would be providing additional funds. He did not say that it might provide additional funds, he said that it would provide these funds. So the Government, in fulfilment of that undertaking, has provided $25m. Those funds will be spent primarily in the significant areas of housing and employment support, as well as in other areas which are of no less importance. I indicated those areas in the statement which I made to the House this afternoon. There has been a variety of opinion expressed by honourable members on the estimates. Not unnaturally, there have been differences of opinion expressed from both sides of the chamber. It is rather interesting that as each member expressed a different opinion, each was purporting to speak in a bipartisan way. From both sides we were exhorted to consider Aboriginal affairs in a non-political manner. I think that is an admirable sentiment. Perhaps all politicians must succumb to the opportunity to speak and then succumb to the opportunity to be political. 
Let me deal briefly with some of the things said by individual speakers. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  a former Minister, spoke of legal aid. I have said to the Legal Aid Services on a number of occasions that, as the coalition parties' policy statement clearly expresses, we accept that this service is a valuable one, one which involves Aboriginals and one through which services should be provided to Aboriginals. Mention was made of an article in one of today's newspapers about outstanding debts to the legal profession by the Victorian Legal Aid Service. Whereas the figure quoted today was $63,000, the figure quoted to me two or three weeks ago when I interviewed someone from the Legal Aid Service was about $25,000.  Mr Hay  has something to say in his report about legal aid. I suggest to the honourable member for Hughes that he read that part of the Hay report.  Mr Hay  made the point that the Legal Aid Services need to control expenditure and need to define the areas of need which they should satisfy. He spoke in favour of the continuance of Aboriginal legal aid services as autonomous units, working in co-operation with other legal aid services in the community. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  spoke of unemployment benefits and of the request by numerous Aboriginal communities that either they not receive those benefits or that the money which is paid into the community in that manner be used to provide job opportunities for the men and the women. Mention was made earlier in the day of the community at Mowanjum. I inform the Committee that the Mowanjum community wrote to me in February of this year pointing out the great socially destructive effect of unemployment and other social security payments on the community. The community asked me whether I could do something to help. As a result I established a working party, calling in my colleagues the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  to consider that matter among other matters affecting Aboriginal employment. That working party has reported. I have recently said publicly that the Department is now working on ways and means by which we can convert those unemployment benefits into work money, not in any sense of discrimination or to deny to Aboriginals their entitlement to unemployment benefit but to see that the money which would otherwise go into a community in that way and not be put to work is in fact put to work. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  mentioned various communities, including Papunya and Yuendumu. I feel that it serves no purpose to single out communities such as those for particularly critical comment. They may be, in their own way, an example of the variety of problems which confront any Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who seeks to do something of value for the Aboriginal people. I think we should acknowledge the differences in those communities and should seek to orient our programs to meet their needs. Mention was made by the honourable member for Wills and other members of education. Let me make 2 short comments about that matter. Firstly, the Minister for Education has established an interdepartmental committee to look into the level of all student allowances, including those payable under the various Aboriginal student assistance schemes. I have no doubt that the Minister will be making a statement in the near future which will advise Parliament of the new level of allowances to be paid to all students.  Senator Carrick  and I jointly visited the Northern Territory in July to look at education in the Territory. One of the things that struck us forcibly, as it must have struck the former Minister for Education, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  was the necessary link between vocational training and work opportunity in particular communities. There has been a breakage of that link in recent times which my colleague and I are seeking to re-establish, because as more and more Aboriginal children come through the educational stream education is worth nothing to them if there is no suitable work for them back in their own community or where they would wish to establish themselves. 
The honourable member for Wills said it was depressing to see the reduction in funds for the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee while there was a doubling of funds for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I regret to advise the honourable member, a former Minister, that there was no doubling of funds in the Aboriginal Affairs vote for the Legislative Assembly. If he had been following my statements he would have observed that the Government has established an inquiry into the future role and structure of the NACC and that the appropriation in the Budget is sufficient to cover the known expenditure requirements until that inquiry is completed and the Government has made its decision on the future of the NACC. 
The point has been well made by several honourable members that the measure of a government's performance in the field of Aboriginal affairs is not simply the amount of money appropriated or spent; rather, the social value of what any government does is the real test of its performance. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  dwelt at some length on the inadequacy of appropriations this year because of an inflation level of 12 per cent. He said that in the field of Aboriginal affairs, and presumably he would argue this in respect of other departmental estimates, all levels of expenditure should be increased by 12 per cent to match inflation. Well, on 13 December last the public gave this Government a resounding vote of confidence and asked it to reduce the rate of inflation because it knows that if inflation is allowed to continue at the level established by the former Labor administration it can only be destructive not only of the economy but of the very social fabric of the nation. Therefore it serves no purpose simply to increase all government expenditure by some form of indexing to equate with the current level of inflation. Rather, the point of any government economic strategy, as it is the strategy of this Government, ought to be to reduce the level of inflation and restore real value to the nation's currency. That is what this Government is embarked upon and it is reflected in the estimates of my Department as it is in the estimates of all other departments. 
The honourable member for Grey also referred to a recent Press statement by the Minister for Housing in South Australia in which he lamented the fact that his Government was to receive only $313,000 for Aboriginal housing this year. It is a pity that the South Australian Minister did not also publicly refer to the contents of my letter to him pointing out that in the "light of reviews presently being undertaken there may be increases in the provision for Aboriginal housing. Of course, I was not in a position at that dme to tell the State Minister unequivocally that there would be any particular level of additional funds for Aboriginal housing in South Australia. Honourable members now know, in view of the statement I made this afternoon, that there will be substantial additional funds for Aboriginal housing provided through both State grants and direct grants to Aboriginal housing associations. South Australia can be sure that it will receive a fair proportion of those additional funds. 
All people who have worked in Aboriginal affairs will readily acknowledge the capacity of the South Austraiian Aboriginal Housing Board to build and provide houses for Aboriginals efficiently. I might also mention in passing, in order to dispel any doubts that there might be in the minds of honourable members in view of certain remarks made by the honourable member for Grey, that no South Australian senator had any prior information about the Government's decision to provide the additional $25m. 
Mention was made also of reductions in expenditure on health and education in the Northern Territory. What needs to be recognised in this case, as commentators and honourable members failed to recognise when reading the Budget papers, is that the amounts referred toapproximately $6m for education in the Northern Territory and $ lm for health in the Northern Territory- represent deferred capital works and not direct expenditure on health or education programs. I might also mention now for the information of honourable members, in view of a question asked of me some time ago, that the nutritional program for Aborigines in the Northern Territory, administered by my colleague the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  resulted in an expenditure last year of $200,000 and that it is to be continued. I thank the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for the comments he made in his contribution to this debate. As he said, it can be readily established that with sound administration more can be done with less money. 
The honourable member for Fremantle always makes a valuable contribution to any debate on Aboriginal Affairs and on this occasion he took as a theme the idea that the Government ought to acknowlege a new basis of treatment for Aboriginal people, and that is compensation. They ought not to be treated as a conquered race; they should be compensated today for the neglect of the past. The honourable member might well be satisfied with the published statement of the coalition parties relating to Aboriginal affairs which expressly speaks in similar terms to those in which he spoke tonight- that additional funds ought to be provided for Aboriginals for their past dispersal and dispossession. The policy statement of the coalition parties speaks in what some might think is a radical way. I refer to those who are inclined to describe us as conservatives. We speak there of establishing 2 accounts, one the Aboriginal entitlement revenue account and the other the Aboriginal entitlement capital account. The first is in order to display to the public the magnitude of our commitment to Aboriginal advancement and the second is to give effect to the notion that we ought to provide additional funds for past dispersal and dispossession, a notion which was, so far as I know, never accepted or acknowledged by the former Labor administration. 
In view of the statement I made to the House today about the additional $2 5 m to be provided for Aboriginal affairs in pursuance of the undertaking by the Treasurer, I think all Aborigines and others interested in their welfare can be well satisfied with the commitment of this Government to their advancement. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $32,975,000. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Funds provided for the Project Enrichment Pre-school in Bourke, N.S. W. by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are as follows: 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Universities Commission has given consideration to the need for the expansion of output of dental graduates in its Report for 1977-79 Triennium which was recently tabled in the Parliament Recognising the relatively low ratio of output of dental graduates to population in Victoria, the Commission recommends that funds, additional to those specified in the Government guidelines for the 1977-79 triennium, be made available from 1978 onwards for the expansion of the dental school at the University of Melbourne to enable the University to double its output of dental graduates. It is estimated that the cost of the proposal (at December 197S cost levels) over the three years 1978 to 1980 would be about $300,000, $500,000 and $700,000 respectively for operating expenditure and $2.2m for buildings. 
The Commission 's report is at present under consideration by the Government 
Surplus Cattle as Aid (Question No. 1014) 
I can readily give to the honourable member the guarantee that he seeks. I welcome the representations which he and his colleague the honourable member for Mallee made to me about a month ago concerning the position of Aboriginal teacher aides in the Murray-Goulburn area. At present 46 Aboriginal teacher aides are employed by the Victorian 
Education Department under a scheme funded by my Department. It is the kind of scheme that we are sponsoring throughout Australia in order to give Aborigines opportunities for employment in areas of this kind. A keynote of the scheme is that the State governments employ these  people  on the basis that they can hold out to them some prospect of permanent employment. We do not want to operate a scheme which simply subsidises the State governments for the employment of people. We want to see real opportunities for Aborigines in places where there was not opportunity previously. When the representations were made to me I immediately made inquiries. I was able to ensure that the teacher aides in the Murray-Goulburn area were guaranteed continued employment. With the provision of the additional $25m in funds which I announced yesteday, they will be employed until the end of this financial year. I shall be entering into discussions and consultations with the Victorian Education Department to see that career opportunities are available to these people at the completion of their courses. 
by leave- The Government has determined a number of changes in the rates and conditions of various student assistance schemes to be effective from 1 January 1977. In July of this year the Government appointed an interdepartmental committee to recommend changes in rates and conditions and to correct certain anomalies which had become apparent since the schemes were introduced. The committee was instructed to recommend changes in rates and conditions and any desirable rationalisations to the various schemes. The committee had before it a number of submissions by various bodies, including student organisations. In addition, it studied the report of the Williams Committee on the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme- commonly known as TEAS. 
That report, prepared by a committee under the chairmanship of  Dr H.  S. Williams, Director of the Western Australia Institute of Technology, was submitted to the Whitlam Government in May 1975. It recommended a wide range of changes. The report was not implemented and few changes were included in the August 1975 Budget of the Whitlam Government for the 1976 calendar year. As a result, current tertiary living allowances have not been varied since January 1975 and are based on June 1974 prices. 
The Whitlam Government's failure to vary the living allowances, combined with the erosion of the allowances by inflation and the difficulty experienced by students in getting part time jobs to supplement their incomes, has caused appreciable hardship to those who are wholly or predominantly dependent on the allowance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)- (6) I have seen a press report indicating that the National Aboriginal Congress has produced figures such as those mentioned in the question. I am not aware of the basis on which the figures have been calculated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No such reports have been drawn to my attention nor am I aware of any substance in the allegations referred to in the question. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Government's intention is that local government should receive the benefits of the Government's revenue sharing reforms as early as possible in each financial year, and in a lump sum. 
The Commonwealth will pay the full amount of both elements of the grant each year as soon as a State notifies the breakup between its local government bodies, following the report of its State Grants Commission. 
For the financial year 1976-77, however, any payment must await the passing of the enabling legislation which will be introduced as soon as possible in the current Budget session. 
Study of Man-made Tourist Attractions (Question No.  1068) 
I was very pleased to hear the honourable member acknowledge how worthwhile were the increases in student allowances announced yesterday by the Minister for Education. That is certainly in contrast with the record of the former Labor Administration which flatly refused to increase those allowances. It has taken this Government to restore some equity to the universities and other students in this country. I have no doubt that my colleague has well under control the matter of capital works expenditure for universities. I shall refer the question to him and give the honourable member an answer. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the final report, dated 1976, of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Standards for Science Facilities in Independent Secondary Schools. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I wish to speak on the estimates for the Department of Education. The comments, particularly from honourable members opposite, on the estimates for the Department's expenditure show what has been rather common in the approach of the Opposition to the Budget in relation to so many departments, and that is a failure to read either the Budget Speech or the papers which accompany the Budget. There have been so many examples where the Opposition has said that there have been cuts in education or in a particular section of education as to display plain ignorance of what is comprehended within the Budget. As a number of newspapers have observed, the fact of the matter is that expenditure on education overall was up by 15.3 per cent to $2.204m. I draw the attention of honourable members to the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in which he set out quite plainly the facts concerning overall expenditure on education. As the Treasurer pointed out, the Government provided for increases in real levels of expenditure and restored triennial programs on a rolling basis. This is quite the contrary to what the previous Labor Administration did in its last year in office. 
Nevertheless honourable members opposite, including the former Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  have the gall to get up and criticise the present Government. As the Treasurer has said, we have restored education to a high priority area. I could give a number of examples of what I said earlier in relation to where the Opposition has simply failed to read either the Budget Speech or the Budget Papers in order to see what has happened to funding. 
I mention briefly migrant education funding. What the Opposition failed to do was to observe that there had been a transfer of funds from one department to another. Although the Opposition so frequently spoke of a cut- I think $10m was referred to- it failed to see that overall expenditure for migrant education has been maintained. It has merely been carried through different departments. 
-I would not have thought that it was an effective reduction if broadly the same amount of money is spent but through different areas of Government administration. The same sort of thing is done by the Opposition in respect of child migrant education. The figures show that $2 1.81m was spent through the Schools Commission program and through the Department of Education in 1975-76 in recurrent expenditure. This year $23m is to be spent by way of a different appropriation through the Schools Commission and the Department of Education. This is an increase of roughly $1.1 9m in this financial year. 
Comment could be made on expenditure under the Schools Commission program. This is one area certainly where the Opposition simply cannot point the bone. In 1976 the then Labour Administration appropriated only $465m against a recommendation by the Schools Commission of $650m. So one wonders really how serious the Opposition is when it claims that it has a priority in the area of education. 
Another matter mentioned by some speakers in this debate was the isolated children's allowance. Along with student allowances, this is an area where the previous Labor Administration flatly refused to consider an increase, the rates having remained unchanged since, I think, 1972. The Government in its Budget considerations earlier this year determined that it would review those allowances in order to bring them more into line with cost of living increases. It was said back in August that a review would be carried out in order that announcements could be made to the Parliament in October. This is precisely what the Government did. My colleague, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in another place, made his announcements across the broad area of student allowances and indicated that about $50m more would be provided through the student allowances programs in tertiary education, secondary education and Aboriginal education. This is an increase of no mean proportions in comparison with the flat refusal of the previous Labor Administration to even consider an increase. I could go on pointing out error after error in the basic consideration of the Opposition of the estimates of the Department of Education. But there is no need for me to elaborate on that because the facts speak for themselves. 
In conclusion I refer to a matter which was raised by the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in a question to me on 7 October and again during this debate on the Estimates. He asked why, if the Government was so prepared to increase student allowances and to find the money for that in the Treasury, it was not prepared to find extra money for capital works programs for tertiary education as recommended by the Universities Commission. I draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that total expenditure on tertiary education in 1977 will represent some $960m compared with $92 7m in 1976, an increase of $33m approved by this Liberal-National-Country Party Administration. While the Universities Commission has not been able to propose any major capital works in 1977 within the $30m available, the colleges of advanced education which are projected to experience a larger increase in enrolments than universities in 1977, will receive $69m in 1977 for capital expenditure. In other words, the Government fixes a priority on colleges of advanced education because of the increased enrolments expected in 1977. At the same time it is providing the universities with an increase of some $33m to cover recurrent expenditure. Those are the figures. 
While the Government cannot agree to the recommendation of the Universities Commission in respect of capital works in this financial year, nevertheless we have fixed a priority which the then Minister, the honourable member for Fremantle, in the previous Labor Administration was not prepared to do, namely, to increase student allowances to meet rises in the cost of living and the increased requirements of colleges of advanced education to cover increased enrolments in 1977. 1 suggest to members of the Opposition that the next time they enter a debate on education estimates they read the Budget Speech of the Treasurer and the Budget Papers much more carefully than they have on this occasion. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 

 Mr ELLICOTT (Wentworth AttorneyGeneral) I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 22 September be varied by next considering the proposed expenditure for the Attorney-General 's Department. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is the suggestion of the Attorney-General agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $54,617,000. 
Progress reported. 
Further to my answer to the question without notice by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith on 7 October, my colleague the Minister for Education has asked me to draw to his attention the fact that total expenditure on tertiary education in 1977 will represent some $960m compared with $927m in 1976. While the Universities Commission has not been able to propose any major capital works in 1977 within the $30m available, the colleges of advanced education, which are projected to experience a larger increase in enrolments in 1977 than universities, will receive $69m in 1977 for capital expenditure. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Funds are intended for two distinct purposes- a per capita grant to all local government authorities to be known as Element A, and an equalisation grant, Element B, for those Councils whose special needs are not adequately catered for by Element A. State Governments will allocate a minimum of 30 per cent of the funds available to local government under Element A and may, if they wish, introduce some weighting within Element A to take account of differences in area and population density. 
Establishment of machinery to distribute funds is only necessary for the distribution of the equalisation component. States have agreed to establish State Grants Commissions to handle this. It will be necessary for Commissions to be established by statute before 1978-79. 
New South Wales already had a Local Government Grants Commission prior to the introduction of the Government's Federalism policy. 
Tasmania passed legislation to establish a State Grants Commission in June 1976, while Victoria and South Australia have both introduced legislation to do so. Western Australia has established a Local Government Grants Committee and Queensland has an Interim State Committee, but neither of these bodies has been established by statute. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
No formal instructions are provided for teachers in either ACT or Northern Territory schools in relation to compliance with the Copyright Act 1968-1973. Schools in the ACT were advised in December 1 974 that the Copyright Agency Limited held exclusive licence within the terms of Section 10 of the Copyright Act 1968-1973 to reproduce certain works by the author, Judith Wright McKinney. 
No instance of the circumstances outlined in the honourable member's question has arisen in either Territory. The Department is aware of the problems of photocopying in educational institutions and of decisions in the Moorhouse case which have led to the inquiry recently conducted by the Government's Copyright Law Committee on Reprographic Reproduction. When the Copyright Law provisions are clarified, the Department will look closely into their implications for all aspects of possible infringements in schools. 
In view of the current uncertainty on the issue, neither the Department nor the Interim ACT Schools Authority has discussed possible copyright liability with teachers' unions in the Territories. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Interim ACT Schools Authority and the Northern Territory Division of the Department of Education are each responsible for six offset duplicators available to teachers in schools. 
The current law provides that a fair dealing for the purpose of education, criticism or review will not constitute an infringement of copyright (Sections 4 1 , 44 and 200 of the Copyright Act 1968-1973). It should not therefore, be assumed that any copying is an infringement of copyright. Material copied may include copyright material. No prescribed forms are completed by teachers in either Territory when these duplicators are used. 
There are fourteen electronic stencil cutters available to teachers in the ACT, and five in the Northern Territory. 
The cutters may be used at times by teachers to reproduce copyright material. The use of these machines to reproduce copyright material does not however necessarily involve the infringement of copyright, according to the Copyright Act 1 968- 1 973 which provides for fair dealing for the purpose of education, criticism or review (Sections 41, 44 and 200 ). No prescribed forms are completed for copying on these machines. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) A comprehensive written questionnaire survey which sought information was conducted in 1974 by the Interim A.CT. Schools Authority. The results were communicated to the Copyright Law Committee in a written submission in January 1975. Personal representations were made before the Committee in March 1975 and representatives of the Authority accompanied the Committee on its visits to A.CT. schools shortly after the hearing. 
The aftermath of Cyclone Tracy prevented a similar survey in the Northern Territory but officers of the Department believed that the needs of Northern Territory schools were similar to those revealed by the A.C.T. survey. 
Discussions in relation to the current inquiry have taken place between Commonwealth and State Government members and officers in the context of meetings of the Australian Education Council. 
The Department is aware that the Queensland Education Department is negotiating certain rights in respect to copying. It has not investigated the matter in detail. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question. 
) to (4) I draw the honourable member's attention to a statement I made in the Senate on Wednesday 6 October, 1976 on the Review of Student Assistance Schemes  (Hansard,  Pages 1023-1028). 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (4) I draw the honourable member's attention to a statement I made in the Senate on Wednesday, 6 October, 1976, on the Review of Student Assistance Schemes  (Hansard,  Pages 1023-1028). 
In my statement I announced that- 
The Government has decided not to proceed with the reintroduction of tuition fees for higher and second degree students or for overseas students in tertiary institutions. It took this decision after careful consideration of the detailed implications of the proposed measure. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  had already indicated in his Budget Speech that the Government had no intention of reintroducing fees for Australian tertiary students undertaking their first degrees. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested in respect of 1974 can be found in the Report of the Schools Commission, July 1 975 entitled Financial Assistance Granted to each State in 1974 States Grants (Schools ) Act 1 973-74'. 
The following tables set out the information in respect of 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The computer-based statistical system for the recording of information relating to persons assisted by the Aboriginal Legal Service has been prepared. The aim of the system is to provide information to guide my Department in provision of funding for Aboriginal Legal Services, to assist the Aboriginal Legal Services to determine their priorities, and to assist in indicating the sentencing pattern of Aboriginal people throughout Australia. It was proposed that the system should make use of a computer facility and to this end a computer program was obtained, a data collection sheet was prepared and an officer of the Department received training in the use of the computer facility. The program was discussed with representatives of the Aboriginal Legal Services at their Annual Conference in August 1 975 but was rejected by them on the basis that some Aboriginal people might fear the collection of such information, and because it was considered that additional work would be placed on the staff of the Aboriginal Legal Services. I consider the approach is worthwhile and hope that the Aboriginal Legal Service will accept the system with reasonable modification. A similar system has been adopted by the Victorian Legal Aid Service and has been useful to that Service. My Department is continuing to discuss the question of statistics with the Aboriginal Legal Services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) $180,000 was paid for 'Glenville'. 
Of this sum, $168,848 was for land (including buildings, fencing, water supplies) and $11,132 for plant and stock, including: 4000 merino sheep and 40 cattle; homestead, workman's cottage, 4-bedroom shearers' sleeping accommodation, 500 bushel silo, 4-vehicle garage and workshop, woolshed and attached hay shed, machinery storage area and laundry and shower facilities for shearers; internal fencing in good order and boundary fencing in fair condition; truck, utility, tractor, boat and outboard motor and numerous other smaller items; the Barwon and Boomi Rivers water the property at each end ( 10 miles of actual frontage). Further supplies are provided by 3 ground tanks (dams) which have been located to suit paddock subdivision. An excellently equipped electric pressure system with overhead storage tanks for back-up supplies serves the house, cottage and shed area. 
3)  Mr and Mrs R.  S. Blunt. 
No. 
None. 
The Aboriginal Land Fund Commission had the benefit of advice from a farm management consultant, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Commonwealth Development Bank and carried out its own investigations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of reports alleging that Aboriginals in Brisbane are subject to harassment by police. 
and (3) No evidence has been provided to me to substantiate the allegations. 
Officers of my Department have had close contact with Aboriginal organisations in Brisbane in respect of allegations of this nature. In recent weeks the Aboriginal organisations concerned undertook to provide detailed and factual evidence to support the allegations and when this is available to me I will consider whether further action is required. 
Report of the Auditor-General  (Question No. 1196) 
The matter raised by the honourable member for Swan is a very interesting one. Judging from the response from honourable members to the question, it is obviously a suggestion that would have the support of many of them. For a number of years there has been considerable discussion about the greater public utilisation of facilities in schools, not only of the kind relating to the arts, which was mentioned in the question, but also recreation facilities such as gymnasiums, playing fields and the like. I think it is obviously a matter deserving further consideration because the greater the utilisation and access that the public can have to facilities of this kind provided with public money, the better off the public will be in these various fields. I will refer the suggestion to my colleague in the other place,  Senator Carrick,  and also to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in matters concerned with the arts. I understand that discussions are going on in the field of the arts and education, and this suggestion is worthy of further consideration. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The level of funding provided by DAA in 1975-76 to pre-schools substantially conducted for the benefit of Aboriginal children is as follows: 
N.S.W.-(State total $666,253 plus $1.20 per day per Aboriginal child). Bourke- approximately $32,000; Box Ridge $9,950; St Pius X Mission, Moree $14,880; Save the Children Fund pre-schools at Coffs Harbour, Armidale, Griffith, Kempsey, Taree, Brewarrina, Cowra, Goodooga, Gulargambone, Lake Cargelligo, Nambucca Heads, Walgett, Wellington- total $530,959, Murawina $78,464. 
In addition $ 1 .20 per day per Aboriginal child is paid by the State Department of Youth and Community Service to all pre-schools from funds provided by D.A.A. 
Queensland-(State total-$732,103). Burketown Kindergarten Association- $46,010; Inala Save the Children Fund Branch-$74,600; Kindergarten Headstart $11,250; Creche and Kindergarten Association$22,500; Yelangi pre-school-$207,106; Bloomfield-$4,676; Cowal Creek-$49,266; Mornington Island-$ 13 1,090; Bamaga-$21,217; Thursday Island-$25,343; Lockhart River-$29,336; general and equipment grants-$ 109,709. 
South Australia-( State total-$84,858). Aboriginal Social Club of Port Augusta-$30,650; Elizabeth Gooder Centre-$2,900; Kindergarten Union of S.A.-$ 15,700;  Pukatja Community Inc. -$20,420; Save the Children Fund, Port Lincoln Branch-$15,188. 
Western Australia-($613,535). Capital assistance was provided to the following centres: Balgo-$65,000; Boulder-$8,000; Fitzroy Crossing-$65,100; Looma-$22,000; Port Hedland-$ 17,900; Wallance Park-$10,000; $19,000 was divided between Fitzroy Crossing, Halls Creek and Derby. 
Additional recurrent funds totalling $406,535 were spread across 54 centres having significant Aboriginal enrolment, together with a number of smaller centres. 
The final allocations for 1976-77 will allow the operations of existing pre-schools to be maintained at a similar level to that of 1975-76. Funds will also be available for the operational support of a limited number of new pre-schools. 
Depression in Building Industry in Canberra  (Question No. 957) 
-The report by  Mr David  Hay referred to by the Leader of the Opposition was a report to government for the purpose of sifting out the various public representations which have been made to the Government on the Bill which I introduced. It was to present an analysis of those representations to the Government to better enable the Government to make its decisions. That report has been considered by the Government and, as the Prime Minister and I have both said, it is the intention of the Government to see the legislation complete its passage through the Parliament this session. So the honourable gentleman can expect debate on the matter to resume in this House in the near future. 
The freeze referred to was imposed to enable Aboriginals to make claims to traditional land without fear that the vacant Crown land would be alienated before their claims were determined. The freeze was extended until 31 December 1976. 1 think it was about 2 months ago that I wrote to both land councils in the Northern Territory advising them that I had the agreement of my colleague, the Minister for the Northern Territory, that all those claims of which notice had been given, or those claims which had been lodged, would be protected in the sense that there would be no alienation prior to determination of those claims. All that the 2 land councils need to do is give notice of intention to make claims in respect of areas of vacant Crown land. Because of the time that has elapsed it is believed from experience that that will enable all possible claims to be made. However, I have told Aboriginal groups that should it be established that additional time is required, notwithstanding the agreement I have made with my colleague, they will receive all due consideration. I am quite satisfied that with the combination of those 2 things Aboriginals will be fully protected in any claims they wish to make to vacant Crown land. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act1964I present the annual report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) provides a total amount of $121,405,000 in respect of schemes of student assistance for tertiary study administered by the Department of Education in the financial year 1976-77. The honourable member will be aware that the Minister announced substantial increases in student allowances for 1977. These increases are expected to add $19,821,000 to expenditure on tertiary assistance schemes in the 1976-77 financial year. 
The following schemes of assistance for tertiary students will be administered by the Department of Education in 1977: 
-The report referred to by the honourable gentleman is undoubtedly a very important one. I think the House must thank the honourable member for Mitchell and the Committee for the work that they have done in bringing this report forward. I have no doubt that my colleague the Minister for Education and the Government will give serious consideration to the report as a matter of urgency. I will refer the honourable member's question to the Minister and provide him with any further information presently available. 
I welcome the question from the honourable gentleman because there has been a great deal of misunderstanding and misconception about these guidelines. They were issued to the Aboriginal legal aid services about 2 months ago- not as a condition of funding by the Commonwealth but, as their name implies, as a guide to the services so that they might identify and respond to areas of priority in the provision of legal aid to Aborigines. I might also tell the honourable member that those guidelines were discussed quite freely at a conference which I convened of all State legal aid services only a couple of weeks ago. It was a very fruitful conference, with ready participation by my officers and delegates from each State Aboriginal legal aid service. The result of it is that I have asked the services to write their own charter for their future conduct of legal aid. After that has been circulated through all the services throughout Australia and to my department another conference will be held either towards the end of this year or early next year. The object of it will be to lay down for the first time a clear charter for the Aboriginal legal aid services so that they will know where they are going in the future, what areas of priority they should aim to service and, for the Government's part, to which areas it should aim to provide funding. I am quite sure that after this exercise of extensive consultation we will get out of it very much better Aboriginal legal aid services than we have had before. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act 1967 I present the annual report of the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education for the year ended 3 1 December 1975. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill when enacted will be the continuing legislative authority by which funds will be made available to the States for the purpose of implementing programs of assistance to Aboriginal people. On the basis of advice from the then Attorney-General it has been the practice since 1968 to introduce each year during the Budget session the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bills for this purpose. Such Bills have been presented in accordance with section 96 of the Constitution and have contained conditions under which the Minister may release funds to the States and recover moneys not expended for the purposes for which they were provided. 
Following upon comments made by the Auditor-General in his special report of March 1974 on the administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the method of appropriation of funds for State programs was changed in the financial year 1974-75. Instead of the funds being provided from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, as in previous years, States grants were appropriated under division 806 in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1974-75. This Bill, if passed into law, will replace the practice by which a States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill has been introduced each year, and will provide for the payment to the States in any year of such amounts as are appropriated by Parliament for that purpose in that year. Such standing legislation will also overcome a deficiency in the present situation in that there is at present no specific legislative authority in terms of section 96 of the Constitution for payment to the States during the Supply period, as the annual States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill has not been enacted in past years until after the introduction of the Budget. 
In previous years my predecessors used the opportunity of the introduction of annual States grants Bills to give Parliament detailed information of Aboriginal affairs programs undertaken through grants-in-aid to Aboriginal organisations as well as through State instrumentalities. Such information on the Government's policies will be available to the Parliament in the usual way through the Appropriation Bill and will be debated in the normal manner in the Budget session. There will, in addition, be my Department's annual report, which is soon to be tabled in the House. I do, however, refer honourable members to Budget Paper No. 7, tables 39 and 117, which show estimates of payments to the States, during 1976-77, for Aboriginal advancement and also provide some details of such payments in past years. Honourable members will be aware that the Government has recently announced a further allocation of $25m to Aboriginal advancement. A portion of this amount will be made available to the States and when the additional estimates are introduced into the House later during this financial year, details of such further allocations to the States and to Aboriginal organisations will be announced. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In July 1976 the Universities Commission presented to the Government its  Report for 1977-79 Triennium,  in accordance with the guidelines determined by the Government for the tertiary education commissions, which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  announced in the Parliament on 20 May 1976. This Bill provides financial assistance to the States to meet operating and building expenditure of the 18 State universities for the year 1977. In particular, it provides ongoing support for the establishment of Deakin University in Geelong and for Griffith University and Murdoch University which will be enrolling third year students for the first time in 1977. Special earmarked support is also provided for the Australian Graduate School of Management at the University of New South Wales, the School of Medicine at the University of Newcastle, the School of Medicine at Flinders University of South Australia, and the School of Veterinary Studies at Murdoch University. Priority has been given to an increase in funds for the University of Wollongong to bring that University closer to the standard of other, more established, universities. 
The Commission's recommendations were expressed in December 1975 cost levels. The amounts provided in this Bill make allowance for subsequent movements in salary costs to the September quarter 1976, in non-salary costs to the June quarter 1976 and in building costs to the month of June 1976. A total of $520.7m is available to the States under this Bill for university purposes in respect of the year 1977, of which $5 14m is for recurrent costs and equipment purchases and $6.7m for building programs. Estimated expenditure on State universities for 1977, including building funds available from earlier appropriations, amounts to $546. lm at the previously mentioned cost levels. This figure does not, of course, include grants for the Australian National University which are provided under annual appropriations. Subsequent adjustments will be required for cost movements, and these will be made in accordance with new procedures for cost supplementation applying to the 1 977 program. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the States Grants (Universities) Act 1972 and the States Grants (Universities) Act 1976 to adjust the approved programs of grants to State universities for the 1 973-75 triennium and for the year 1976 respectively. The Bill takes account of known variations in costs over and above those which have occurred since the previous adjustments were made in legislation enacted earlier this year. The proposed amendment to the States Grants (Universities) Act 1972 is the last in a series of amending Bills to provide for adjustments for the 1973-75 triennium. The Bill makes no change to the terms and conditions attaching to the grants. 
The additional amounts to be paid to the States for universities in respect of the 1973-75 triennium have been calculated on the basis of price levels for the December quarter 1975 for operating expenses, and December 1975 for the building expenditure. The additional amount to be provided totals $ 1 .24m of which $ 1 . 1 4m is for operating expenditure and $0.1 m for outstanding building projects. Together with previous amendments to the principal Act, grants which have been provided for the 1973-75 triennium for State universities now total $98 1.3m. When State contributions are taken into account the total program for the 18 State universities is $l,169m. 
In respect of the year 1976, the additional amounts take account of the recommendations of the Academic Salaries Tribunal's 1976 review which have been accepted by the Government. They also take account of movements in the appropriate salaries indexes to the September quarter 1 976 and to the non-salary indexes to the June quarter 1976. In the case of the 1976 program the additional amount totals $44m of which $37.3m is for operating expenditure and $6.7m for the building program. The total estimated value of expenditure on State universities for 1976, including building funds available from earlier appropriations, amounts to $526m in the previously mentioned cost levels. Further amendments to the States Grants (Universities) Act 1976 will be required as information becomes available on movements in costs to the end of the year 1976. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide $4 15m for the approved programs of financial assistance to the States for the funding of colleges of advanced education in respect of the 1977 calendar year, following the acceptance of the financial recommendations made in the 1977-79 report of the Commission on Advanced Education, which conform to guidelines announced by the Government on 20 May 1 976. The grants included in the Bill total $343,52 1 ,000 for expenditure under the recurrent program and $70,456,000 for expenditure under the capital program. In addition, the Bill provides for recurrent grants on a formula basis to assist in meeting the administrative costs of student residences and affiliated residential colleges providing accommodation of a collegiate nature. The estimated expenditure on these grants in respect of 1 977 is $7 1 5,000. 
The programs are based on the financial recommendations contained in the Commission's report after transferring to the university sector $6.6m for allocation to the Deakin University on behalf of the Gordon Institute of Technology and the State College of Victoria Geelong, which will be absorbed into the Deakin University in 1977, and $3m to the technical and further education sector for advanced education courses in technical and further education institutions. Because the Commission's financial recommendations were expressed in December 1975 cost levels the amounts shown in the Bill include an allowance to cover cost increases since that date. The allowance is based on indices to take account of increases in costs up to September 1976 in the case of academic salaries and non-academic- general- salaries and wages, and June 1976 in the case of building, equipment and other non-salary costs. In accordance with new cost supplementation procedures it will be necessary, in due course, to make further adjustments to the amounts shown in the Bill. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bil) be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to amend the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1972-76 and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1976 to provide, in accordance with the established policy and procedural arrangements, supplementary grants totalling $33,284,880 to cover cost increases not allowed for when the 1973-75 triennial and 1976 programs in respect of colleges of advanced education and approved non-government teachers colleges were adopted. The supplementary grants being provided for the 1973-75 programs comprise $623,5 10 for recurrent expenditure and $564,340 for capital expenditure and are the final cost escalation adjustments to be made to the 1973-75 programs. The grants in the existing Act contain a provision to cover cost increases occurring up to December 1975 in the case of salaries, and September 1975 in relation to building, equipment and other non-salary costs. In the case of the 1976 programs the amounts of cost supplementation being provided for in the Bill comprise $24,829,000 for recurrent expenditure and $7,268,030 for capital expenditure and are based on indices to take account of increases in costs up to September 1976 in the case of academic salaries and non-academic- generalsalaries and wages, and June 1976 in the case of building, equipment and other non-salary costs. Further adjustments for cost movements to the end of 1976 will be required as the relevant indices become available. 
The grants contained in the existing Act were based on amounts set out in the Commission on Advanced Education's report,  Recommendations for 1976.  The recurrent program includes an allowance to cover cost increases from the June quarter 1975 cost levels of the report to December quarter 1975 cost levels. The capital program is at June 1975 cost levels. As the amendments included in the Bill affect the programs detailed in the schedules to the Acts, the opportunity has been taken to include in the revised schedules the changed names of some colleges and a number of intra- and interprogram transfers of funds which have been approved under the provisions of the Acts. The additional funds provided by this Bill bring the total Commonwealth financial assistance provisions for colleges of advanced education in the States to $744m for the 1973-75 triennium and $385m for 1976. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide financial assistance to the States for technical and further education in respect of the year 1977. The Bill gives effect to the recommendations relating to 1977 contained in the report of the Technical and Further Education Commission for the triennium 1977-79. 
The total amount which the Bill makes available to the States for 1977 is $79,088,000, of which $37,270,000 is for capital expenditure and $41,818,000 is for recurrent expenditure. The prime responsibility for technical and further education rests with the States and these amounts are supplementary to the States' own efforts in this area of education. Building projects to be supported by the Commonwealth in 1977 are listed in a Schedule to the Bill. Most of the projects are located in the State capitals where the Technical and Further Education Commission considers that thegreatest demand for new training facilities is to befound. 
The general purpose recurrent grants are intended to reimburse the States for the costs of abolition of tuition fees for vocational courses, a measure adopted in 1974 at the request of the Commonwealth Government. 
Special purpose recurrent grants are being provided to meet two broad areas of concern which warrant Commonwealth assistance in the form of national programs to meet urgent needs in all States. These areas are staff development and the improvement of the collection of data on the enrolments, staffing and resources of technical and further education so that firmly based planning decisions can be made. Particular purpose grants are being provided to enable the States to achieve desirable improvements in the effectiveness of technical and further education. The grants will be applied by the States to fit in with their individual priorities. 
The Bill also provides the first grants for programs to be carried out by non-government adult education bodies. The allocation of the funds is to be made by an agency nominated by each State in accordance with guidelines mutually acceptable to State and Commonwealth Governments. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants (Schools) Act 1976 and the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 to provide supplementary grants to the States for government and nongovernment schools. When the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1976 was introduced earlier this year it was indicated that the grants for 1976 were, in the main, expressed in June 1975 price levels and would be supplemented by amending legislation for subsequent movements in costs. This Bill is presented in accordance with that undertaking. 
The commitment to the Commonwealth for 1976 under both the existing Acts amounts to $476.2m. This Bill extends that commitment to $531.9m-an increase of $55.7m. The 1976-77 Budget estimates include allowance for payment of supplementary grants in respect of cost increases. For general recurrent expenditure for non-government schools, the grants incorporated in the Bill include a prospective allowance for cost increases up to the end of the year. For other programs further supplementary grants have yet to be determined as information concerning cost increases becomes available; these additional funds will be provided for through a subsequent amendment to the Acts to be introduced in the 1 977 autumn sittings. 
In addition to adjusting grants for 1976, the Bill adjusts grants for 1977 under the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 in respect of cost increases. This involves a further allocation of $7.6m, in addition to the $5 5.7m mentioned above. Consequent upon the Government's decisions on the Schools Commission's report, the main Commonwealth appropriations for schools in the States for 1977 will be the subject of a separate Bill to be introduced shortly. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the role of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. Due to the limited numbers presently available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and in the Parliamentary Library. Additional copies are being printed so that the report will be readily available to interested members and senators and to the public. I seek leave to make a brief statement relating to this report. 
I claim to have been misrepresented. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who has just spoken, referred to increases in salaries and allowances of members of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee and said that these had been instituted under his ministry, not under mine. I wish to correct that statement and put the true position before the House. When I came into my ministry I found that although there had been many requests for an increase in salary and allowances by NACC members and that the matter be referred to the Remuneration Tribunal, in fact nothing had been done. The matter was put to me in March when I attended a plenary session of the NACC. Upon discovering that, I immediately put in motion the necessary steps to have the regulations under the Remuneration Tribunal Act amended so that the Tribunal could conduct an inquiry into the salaries and allowances of members. That was done. The Tribunal made its inquiry and brought forward a recommendation for various increases which were then approved by the Government and are presently operative. 
I am aware that the water tower at Point McLeay collapsed on Monday night. My Department in South Australia, in conjunction with the Point McLeay Community Councilthat is the council of the Aboriginal people living there- and the South Australian Engineering and Water Supply Department, has taken emergency steps to supply water to the community. Two 20 000-gallon tanks are being provided and the South Australian Engineering and Water Supply Department has advised that these tanks ought to be erected by the weekend. They will be paid for out of moneys provided by my Department in previous years which, regrettably, were not spent on a water reticulation project to renew completely the water reticulation system. As far back as April 1975-1 might say that this was under the previous Administration $240,000 was provided by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for this purpose. The Community Council entered into a contract with the South Australian Engineering and Water Supply Department to carry out this work. Regrettably, the work has not proceeded with the speed with which it ought to have proceeded. My Department has been pressing both the Council and the South Australian Engineering and Water Supply Department to get on with the job. Presently an amount of $ 1 97,000 is available out of this year's Budget appropriation for this project. On 2 November my colleague in the other place,  Senator Guilfoyle,  notified the Senate that it was expected that the work would commence within 3 weeks. That 3 weeks period has nearly passed. Now that the water tower has collapsed, I hope that everybody concerned will get on with the job so that the people of Point McLeay can have a proper water reticulation system. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the programs of the education commissions for the 1977-79 triennium. 
The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Treasury and Education, the Public Service Board, and the Income Security Review Committee Secretariat. 
22 September 1976. 
The position of my colleague in the other place, the Minister for Education, in regard to this matter is not personally known to me. I shall inquire of him the position and provide the honourable gentleman with an answer. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to changes to education administration in the Australian Capital Territory. 
in reply- I wish to take the opportunity to reply briefly to some of the remarks made by Opposition speakers and to pick up some of the comments made by Government supporters. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  referred to comments in a number of the education commissions' reports about the inadequacies of the funds to be provided, as indicated in the guidelines for 1978 and 1979. Under the arrangements for the new rolling triennium the Government will be reviewing the rate of growth in the funds provided for the commissions' programs when it determines the guidelines early next year for the 1 978-80 triennium. 
In doing this, the Government will give careful consideration to the comments contained in the reports of the commissions and, in particular, to the needs of technical and further education, as  indicated in the  statement tabled in the House yesterday. The honourable member spoke of cuts which he alleges the Government has made against the requirements of the Commissions. The figures that he cited were taken from the reports of the commissions for the triennium 1976-78. 1 remind the House, as the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  pointed out, that when the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and his colleagues were in Government, and the honourable member was a Minister, their Government rejected the commissions' reports for the 1976-78 triennium. In their place it instituted a one year program for the year 1 976. With regard to that point, not only did the previous Government reject the commissions ' triennial reports, but also it reduced the funds available for 1976 by $105m compared with the amount provided in 197S. 
To take this matter further, I add by way of example, that the Schools Commission in its report sought approximately $720m for 1976 but received from the former Government only $498m, in December 1975 prices, Labor Government prices, which represented a reduction of $222m, quite apart from the loss of value of Labor Government money as a result of inflation generated by that Administration. 
How hollow is it, then, for the honourable gentleman to come into the House during this debate and seek to charge the Government with a dereliction of responsibility in education by stating that the money which we are to provide is less than that which the commissions reported for the triennium that I have mentioned? We have given clear undertakings to the education commissions that there will be real growth in the funds that they are to receive and we have provided them with a planning basis upon which they can put forward programs to the Government under the new rolling triennium proposals. I would have thought that, by any standard, that is a constructive measure and is one upon which the commissions can plan constructively for the future. 
The honourable gentleman also referred to the statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on 4 November when the Minister said that he would be asking the commissions to convey further details of the supplementation arrangements to the institutions. It was alleged that this would lead to uncertainty about whether the Government would be providing the full real growth that it had announced for the commissions' programs. I refer the honourable gentleman to page 2 of the Minister's circulated statement, where he said: ... I wish to emphasise that the Government has no intention of retreating from its undertaking to support real growth in the education programs on which the commissions make recommendations. 
What the commissions will be doing is simple enough. They will be conveying procedural details of the new arrangements to make them more certain, which is quite the contrary to the allegation that the honourable gentleman has made. So, if the honourable gentleman was properly briefed, it is hard to understand how he could make the charge that he did. I invite the honourable gentleman also to carry forward his reading of the paragraph from which he quoted and which refers to the adjustments which have been agreed for cost increases to be made in each quarter following certification from each commission of the supplementation required to maintain the real levels of expenditure approved for the 1977 program. 
The honourable gentleman spoke at some length on technical and further education. We all agree on the importance of this field and the importance of giving the States more support in their programs for technical and further education. We all agree that there is a great need in Australia for expanded programs of training. Like the allegations which were made previously by the honourable member and to which I have just referred, he made remarks with respect to the need for training in the face of eventualities and he gave as examples the closure of copper mines, the difficulty in the electronics industry, the difficulty in the textile industry and the difficulty in the shipyards. It sounds rather hollow to hear him say that in this House when a short but ample analysis of the situations confronted by the industries that he mentioned shows that they are the product of the former Labor Government's administration. We know as a fact that the problems that all these industries are facing are the results of cost increases which were all generated under the Labor Government. In regard to the need for expanded programs of training and their relationship to the work force, it is this Government which has instituted the recommendations of the Williams Committee inquiry into the relationship of education to the work force. We realised that, as there is a restructuring of industry in Australia, and as there is a need for some restructuring of industry in Australia, our education institutions will have to tailor their programs to the needs of the work force. 
In respect of technical and further education, I refer to the statement of the Minister for Education in the Senate on 4 November. I take up here the points made by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  when he spoke of the difficulties, as he saw the situation, of getting the States to bear their proper share of the responsibility for the expenditure on technical and further education. The Minister said: 
It should be emphasised that the Government continues to give technical and further education a high priority and it is of central importance that the States continue to support technical and further education from their own funds, so that the Commonwealth Government grants will be a real addition to resources. It is especially important for the States to maintain their efforts on capital programs if rapidly increasing enrolments are to be accommodated in coming years. 
In respect of what the States have been able to achieve, I am advised that the States have made considerable advances in their performance in the current period. Their forward planning of major building projects has improved greatly and is continuing to improve. Virtually the whole of the funds available to the end of 1976 will be expended before the end of the year. A number of contracts for projects to be constructed next year have already been let. 
The Opposition proposes to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Bill. Whilst the Opposition says that it does not oppose the Bill, it proposes that the House is of the opinion that insufficient resources are being directed into the technical education area. I think it is enough to refer the House to the complete passage in the statement made by the Minister for Education in the Senate on 4 November as a complete answer to the amendment that has been foreshadowed by the Opposition with respect to the funds to be provided for technical and further education. 
The honourable member for Fremantle commented in his introductory remarks upon what was said by the honourable member for Brisbane, who expressed some pleasure at being able to read to his young children some of the educational material available today. It is regrettable that the honourable member for Fremantle should have made such a gratuitous observation. It was intended obviously to score off my colleague. If the honourable member for Fremantle had appreciated that the youngest child of the honourable member for Brisbane is only 3 weeks old and that his other children are all under school age he would have understood the pleasure which the honourable member for Brisbane gets from reading stories to his children- as, I might say, I do to my own children. 
The honourable member for Fremantle sought to score a point by saying that the proposed growth rate for expenditure in 1977 would not be enough in real terms because it would not match even the anticipated growth rates in enrolment. Let me give to the House some figures which show that what the honourable gentleman has said is wrong. I have been supplied with the following figures: The proposed growth rate for funds for universities is 2 per cent. The expected increase in enrolments will be 1.8 per cent. For colleges of advanced education the increase in money provided represents a S per cent increase and the total increase in enrolment is 5 per cent. In technical and further education the proposed rate of increase in funds is 7.5 per cent and the expected  increase in  enrolments is of the same measure. For schools the rate of increase in funds will be 2 per cent and the expected increase in enrolments is 1.1 per cent. Thus the increase in funds more than matches the increase in enrolments. 
The honourable gentleman referred to the need for vocational training and particularly mentioned Katherine College in the Northern Territory. Regrettably I have to advise the House that when this Government came to office and looked at vocational training in the Northern Territory, particularly for Aboriginals, we found quite a sorry story. There had been no real advance in this field under the former Labor Administration. I and my colleague, the Minister for Education, now have the job of pulling the situation together, investigating what is required and putting into operation on a sound administrative basis some forward planning which will provide Aboriginals and others in the Northern Territory with vocational training opportunities that can fit the needs in Aboriginal communities. It is abundantly clear that whatever vocational training is carried out must be tailored to the needs of the Aborigines in their own communities. 
The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  made a most valuable contribution to the House when he spoke of apprenticeship. Probably this is the first time that the historical position of apprenticeship and the position of apprenticeships generally in Australia has been laid out in such a careful and valuable manner. As he said, it is important that Australia lift the level of its trade training so as to supply the trade skills that are required for its development from its own people rather than rely so heavily on what has been said to be the more expensive method of supplying trade skills from overseas. 
The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  spoke at great length and vigorously on the needs of special education in the migrant field- literacy and numeracy. He referred to the report on specific learning difficulties which was presented by a committee of this House. We all acknowledge that it was a most valuable report. The honourable member asked 2 questions on this matter. I can assure him that my colleague the Minister for Education has had the matter under consideration. I might remind the honourable member that the major recommendation of that committee was for teacher training and that is a responsibility of the colleges of advanced education. I would expect that the colleges would be taking special note of the recommendations of the committee in that regard and that in due course they will be making recommendations to the Government. I understand that one of the particular points made by that committee was the need for better use to be made of resources than hitherto. That is something which the honourable member for Melbourne needs to bear in mind. 
I noted with some interest his reference to the need for bilingual teachers. He referred to this particularly in the migration area. I have a special interest in this subject because of the work being done in the field of bilingual education for Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory and Western Australia. It is a most important initiative and it has been operating for some years. It is being evaluated continually. I find it absolutely logical that the easiest way to communicate with people is through their own language. If knowledge is power, and we must be able to communicate in order to acquire knowledge, it is abundantly clear that the best way to communicate with people is in their own language. If that language is not English they ought to be taught in their own language so that they may become bilingual and be able to communicate in English as well as in their own language. What is often not realised, only because of ignorance, is that Aboriginal languages are not written languages and this makes the task of the teacher all the harder. A great deal of work is being done today to put the oral language of the Aboriginals into writing. We are teaching the children to read their own language for the first time. I cannot help but think that as this program develops we will see marked advances in the field of Aboriginal education and, I venture to suggest, a much more rapid advance in Aboriginal education than we have experienced in the past. 
I thank other honourable members for their contributions to this debate although I have not dealt with any particularity with some of the matters they raised. I foreshadow that the amendment to be moved to the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Bill by the Opposition will be opposed by the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I move an amendment to clause 16 which reads in part: 
Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 4 to the principal Act are repealed and the following Schedules substituted: 

<graphic href="101131197611113_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

I move: 
In Schedule 1 , Part II, omit the Part, substitute the following Part: 
It is necessary for the figures appearing in Part II of Schedule 1 to be amended. The new figures have been circulated. I wish to emphasise that these amendments have no effect on the total amounts available to the universities concerned since they form part of the grants appearing in Part I of this Bill. It is merely to see that there are correct figures in the Bill. 
-The first amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  which relates to clause 7 is not acceptable to the Government. The provision referred to in the amendment relates to transfers of funds between recurrent and capital expenditure for government schools within a State. There are similar provisions elsewhere in the Bill, together with provisions for the Minister to transfer funds from one State to another. The Bill does not refer in any of its substantive clauses to the Schools Commission since the Bill is concerned with the approval of grants which must be the responsibility of the Minister. In giving such approvals he has adopted the practice, as a matter of course, of seeking information and advice from the Schools Commission, in accordance with the Commission's charter, as set out in the Schools Commissions Act 1973. The State Minister has to provide reasons for any transfer of funds that is proposed and the Commonwealth Minister needs to be satisfied about the transfer before agreeing to it. 
Again, the second amendment proposed by the honourable member is not acceptable to the Government. This amendment is directed towards the encouragement of community involvement, a principle with which the Government is very much in sympathy. In drafting the Bill the Government gave careful consideration to the question of whether the Commonwealth should have the power to impose a legislative requirement that part of the general recurrent grants for government or non-government systemic schools should be made available to school community bodies. It reached the conclusion that it would not be appropriate to introduce a provision whereby the Commonwealth could direct a State or non-government system to make funds available in such a way. That is the key factor. 
It is our intention to encourage as much decentralisation of decision making as possible to permit maximum responsiveness and  local  involvement in education. We will continue cooperative discussions with the States and nongovernment school systems on ways of increasing local decision making for schools. I refer honourable members again to a statement made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in the Senate on 4 November, particularly to the passage in which he refers expressly to the attitude of the Government to encourage a more active role for parents, teachers and local communities in school management and decision making. In this respect we note that the Schools Commission, in paragraph 19 (3) of its June 1975 report took the view that devolution of decision making 'should not be coerced through legislation'. 
For these reasons the Government had the Bill drafted so that it would be quite open to a State or a non-government school system to use its own discretion in allowing funds to be allocated direct to school community bodies, but it would not be incumbent on them to do. Because the amendment is worded in such a way as to make it permissive rather than directive that certain funds be spent at the direction of the 'school board', it would not add in any way to the capacity for community involvement that is already provided for in the Bill. Moreover, in the case of government schools, by not involving the State minister in the arrangements, the proposal would be offensive to State governments. As a concrete indication of our interest in community involvement, the Bill provides in clause 30, under the definition of 'approved development and service activity' for the participation of parents and other members of the community in developmental programs. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Aboriginal Lands Rights (Northern Territory) Bill and the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions, of course, will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I thank all honourable members who have participated in this important debate. 
-Yes. I remind members of the Opposition who tended to be critical of the timing of the debate on this legislation that the anxiety of the Government to see this legislation passed through this House and the other place before the close of the present parliamentary session has been known for some time. The Opposition also knows that representations were invited from the public on the Bill that I introduced on 4 June. It is interesting to note that the Labor Party put in a representation to me. So it is not as if it had not formulated its ideas as to what ought to be in the Bill. It is not as if members of the Labor Party were caught unprepared for a debate today on the contents of the Bill and on the major points at issue which have been thrown up by the representations. 
Let me finally put the position clearly: When the Government's amendments were provided to the Opposition this morning it naturally enough desired time in which to consider them. After consultations between both sides, as is the courtesy of the House, it was agreed that the Committee stage of the debate on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill would be stood over until the first week of sitting after the recess next week. That is at least the usual time afforded to an Opposition to prepare to debate a matter in this way and more than usual, if we like to get a little trifling, having regard to the notice that the Opposition received from my public statement last week. 
In closing the second reading debate I could go on at some length and point out the many errors in the speech of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  It rather astounds me, having listened to a debate on a matter of public importance in which he led for the Opposition some time ago and having heard him again today to recall that he is a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, more particularly when there were so many errors in his speech on the last mentioned occasion, just as there were in his speech today. I will have the opportunity during the Committee stage, when we debate particular provisions in the Bill, to deal with some of those errors. 
Mention was made by the honourable member for Hughes and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  of the matter of roads. I think there is some misunderstanding on the part of both honourable gentlemen about the provisions of the Bill. I shall refer to them shortly m order to clarify the point. In clause 1 1 (2) and clause 12 (3) of the Bill there is a reservation of public roads from the grant of freehold title. They are roads over which the public has a right of way. I am advised that the only such roads exist through the Yuendumu Reserve, being the beef road from Alice Springs to Western Australia; the Jay Creek Reserve; the Hermannsburg Reserve, being the roads to Palm Valley and Glen Helen; and the Beswick reserve, being the road to Mainoru Station. No permits have ever been required of people using these roads to travel on to other destinations. The exclusion of the roads from the Bill by the provisions I have mentioned will change nothing. With the greatest respect to both honourable gentlemen, if they had read the Bill they would have seen that clause 68 preserves the status of lands as reserves, being those lands which are outlined in the Schedule. This could mean that anyone using the public roads technically would still require a permit to enter an Aboriginal reserve and consequently Aboriginal control over the road is possible. Furthermore, clause 65 guarantees that no roads are constructed in Aboriginal land without the consent in writing of the Land Council. Clause 66 gives Aborigines control of entry into Aboriginal land and hence control of existing roads other than the public access roads I have mentioned. 
Great play was made, particularly by honourable members on my side of the House, of the concern of the Government and of individual members to protect the traditional interests of traditional Aborigines. This is what this Bill is all about. The Government had been very careful to see that that is just what this Bill does. At all points where the interests of traditional owners are at stake the former Bill introduced by the Labor Administration has been strengthened by what we have done, so as to entrench in the law the interests of those traditional Aboriginal owners. I mentioned in my second reading speech, and I point this out to honourable members again, that clause 67 of the Bill is fundamental to all else that is provided. Clause 67 of the 
Bill entrenches in Australian domestic law for the first time the customary rights of Aborigines according to their traditional interests. One might look at this legislation and the framework of it as creating within our framework of domestic law an umbrella' underneath which the customary interests of Aborigines might prevail and be protected by Australian domestic law for the first time. 
This is reflected in the position of land councils and their relationship to traditional owners, and the position of land trusts and the requirement that membership of the land trusts be drawn from traditional owners. I direct the attention of all honourable members who are concerned about these particular aspects of the legislation to what was said by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward in paragraphs 83, 84, 95, 96, and 361 of his 1974 report.  Mr Justice  Woodward was thoroughly conscious of the need to provide within Australia domestic law for the traditional interests of Aborigines. He was conscious of the need to provide a system of law within which the position of traditional owners is respected and entrenched. I know the views of Pastor Albrecht. I have sat with him and his 2 assistants at Hermannsburg for 2 days and discussed his propositions at length. I respect the views which he holds. However, they are not the views which are held by respected anthropologists or by others who have studied this area of Aboriginal interest for many years. With due respect to the views of Pastor Albrecht, I do not accept them. I think that what  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward has provided in his report and what is reflected in this legislation will do all that is required to provide for the traditional ownership rights of Aborigines in the Northern Territory. 
It was pointed out to me tonight by traditional Aborigines from the top end of the Northern Territory that the Aboriginal concept of the custodian of their land has a close similarity to our notion within our law and according to our concept of a trustee of land for beneficiaries. It was pointed out that there could be a conjunction of Aboriginal interest and Australian domestic legal interest through the identity of the Aboriginal who is the custodian and who might also be the trustee for the Aborigines of their land rights through membership of the land trust I feel that whatever might be said about the material provided to the House by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  from those Aborigines around Hermannsburg, there will not be the friction they fear when this legislation is put into operation. They will find that when the land trusts and land councils are set up in the way provided, when they operate in the way intended, there will not be the friction which has been spoken about. Nor will the legislation, as it operates, be so diametrically opposed to what nas been termed the Aboriginal reality as has been put forward by those antagonists of the legislation. 
The honourable member for Mackellar always speaks from a depth of understanding and knowledge about Aborigines. He is concerned to maintain the intregrity of the traditional Aboriginal. So are we all. He is concerned to maintain the integrity of the Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory. So are we all. That is why, under this legislation, those reserves will automatically become Aboriginal land clothed with the title which this legislation provides. The intregrity of which the honourable member speaks in relation to rnining will, of course, be provided through the veto power which came under such attack from certain quarters within the community but which was maintained by the Government intact for the very good reason that we sought to maintain the integrity of Aboriginal ownership in the Aboriginal sense of what is their land. I . am quite sure in my own mind that the integrity of which the honourable member for Mackellar speaks will be maintained through this veto power and the other protections which are provided for in the legislation. This was a matter which perplexed  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward. It perplexed many people as to how to balance the interests of Aborigines with the peculiar and unique nature of their interest in and and the demands of the whole Australian society for development where it is in the national interest. 
It was proposed to  Mr Justice  Woodward that Aborigines should also have the rights to minerals within their land. He was not prepared to accept that, but did see it as absolutely necessary that there be adequate protection for Aborigines through the veto power and the other protections which he indicated and which are written into this legislation to see that Aboriginal interests are provided. The Opposition has made great play, as was to be expected, about the intention of the Government to allow to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory room in which to pass ordinances with respect to the area which is called complementary legislation. I shall not repeat here what I said in my second reading speech, what I said in the public statement I made last Thursday and what I said in the statement which I made in the House preceding this second reading debate. I simply point out that what will happen is that the Legislative 
Assembly will make laws in this area for the administration of sacred sites, for entry to Aboriginal land and for protection and conservation of wildlife. If those laws are not made in accordance with the stipulations in the Bill which will be introduced by the amendments, then those laws will be invalid. But even before that point might come, of course, the Commonwealth has statutory power to withhold consent to the ordinances. Of course, the ordinances do not become law until that assent is given. 
I conclude by reminding honourable members opposite, as I have pointed out in my statement, that central to the Government's desires is that administration of Aboriginal land be channelled through land councils. A function of the land councils will be to perform those functions which the Northern Territory ordinances will provide. Of course, the Government against the background of those observations will see that the land councils, the body representing Aborigines, will be centrally located in the administration of the ordinances in all these areas. I thank honourable gentlemen for their contributions. There is much more than can be said and will be said in the Committee stages to explain further the many errors which have been made, particularly on the Opposition side. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I wish to indicate to the Committee that the Government will not accept the amendment. The sub-clause is a simple requirement for the tabling of by-laws made by Aboriginal councils established under legislation. Local government by-laws, if the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  wishes to take that analogy, are published and become public knowledge in that sense. This provision will make those by-laws public knowledge through their being tabled in the House. It is a simple proposition and I do not think it needs answering beyond that. 
-The Government does not accept the amendment. It is quite superfluous. It adds nothing of any substance to the Bill. May I remind the honourable gentleman that when he introduced a similar Bill - 
Consideration interrupted. 
I would Uke to continue briefly my comments on the reason why the amendment is not acceptable. I was about to remind the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that in the Bill which he presented to the House for the same purpose as the one I have presented the words that he now seeks to include were not in his Bill. As I said in my second reading speech, what this Bill will do will be to authorise the payment to the States of moneys already appropriated by this Parliament for that purpose. The purposes for which money is spent will be fully laid out and open to debate by the Parliament in the Budget debates. The honourable gentleman and the Opposition will have ample opportunity in the ordinary course of Budget debates to debate the appropriations of my Department annually. 
I can provide the honourable gentleman with the information he requires. The relationship of Aboriginal legal aid to the legal aid commissions which my colleague, the AttorneyGeneral, proposes to set up in the various States is quite clear. He has made it clear, and it is the Government's policy, that Aboriginal legal aid will maintain its independence. The necessity for that has been recognised by a great many people who have studied the deficiencies in the provision of legal aid to Aborigines in the past. 
For example, Professor Sackville acknowledged in his study of law and poverty the necessity for a special service to satisfy Aboriginal needs. 
I point out for the honourable member's information that in fact there will be an increase in funding for the Western Australian service this year. The amount provided will be roughly $590,000, as against the $540,000 provided last year. As well as that there is some carryover from last year's funds. That will enable the service either to expand its existing setup or to establish new offices in some of the remoter parts of Western Australia. I might add that the increase for Western Australia has been as a result of a rearrangement of funding as between the different services throughout Australia. Overall, the same amount of funds will be provided this year as was expended last year- $3,746,000. For the information of honourable members, might I give some short statistics. Based on last year's - 
I cannot recall at the moment the precise date that I received the working party's report. I shall ascertain it and let the honourable gentleman know. I believe that it was about July. 
Since then my colleagues the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the Minister for Education and the Minister for Social Security and I have met. A submission to the Government is being prepared by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. I expect it to be to hand shortly. The matter of the payment of unemployment benefit is one which has particular difficulties. We do not want to put Aborigines in the positon that they must work to get unemployment benefit because, as the honourable gentleman will appreciate, that is really a non-sequitur. What we want to do is to see that money goes into communities which will finance worthwhile projects and can employ those Aborigines who cannot obtain employment at the present time. I expect the submission to go to the Government fairly shortly. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) No Committee has been appointed to carry out the tasks set out in part ( 1 ) of the question. An interdepartmental committee comprising officers of the Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Aboriginal Affairs and Treasury was appointed and has reported to the Government on matters related to the provision of additional funds to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for Aboriginal programs. 
The Government's decision on these matters to provide an additional $25m in funds was reported to the House in my statement of S October. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) See my answer to question 892. 
No community has been refused Government support to form a housing association. Some communities and organisations have, however, been discouraged from forming housing associations for one or more of the following reasons: the community's housing needs were better met by the State Housing Authority; a housing association  was already operating  satisfactorily in the area; insufficient interest in the community to form a registered housing association; insufficient managerial and administrative experience to successfully operate a housing association. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2) and (3) No such directive has been issued to any Aboriginal legal service. 
At the beginning of this financial year all services were advised of interim proposals for operational guidelines. 
The interim guidelines recognised that in no year since the establishment of Aboriginal Legal Services have funds been sufficient to provide representations for all Aboriginals in all courts. The guidelines suggested that Services may need to be selective m the types of cases they sought to represent in order to meet priority needs and contain their operations within their budget and set out some possible criteria for selectivity. 
I chaired a conference on 14 and 1 S October with the Services at which the guidelines and mutually acceptable terms for the long term operation of the Services were discussed. Substantial progress was made and I expect that a further conference next December or January will set the course for the future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. A small map is available, on request, from my office or from my Department showing the reserves and other areas listed in the Schedule to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. 
I am informed that the Parliamentary Library is ordering copies of the Northern Territory pastoral map which shows the Aboriginal reserves and mission lease areas listed in the Schedule. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I announced the closure of the Department's Area Offices at both Morwell and Swan Hill in Victoria. Departmental staff have been relocated to provide a more efficient service to the Aboriginal people but there has been no withdrawal of Community Advisers or other staff from the areas. In addition my Department has opened an office in Mildura to meet the needs of Aboriginal people in that part of Victoria and New South Wales. 
Yes. 
(a) It is true that no organisation in Morwell has as yet been funded, but the question of their viability has not yet arisen as no Aboriginal organisation in the area has submitted a request for funds. 
In the case of Swan Hill, my Department is still awaiting a reply from the Mid-Murray Aboriginal Co- operative to a letter from the Regional Director requesting further information. When this is received the question of funding can be considered further. 
Commonwealth and State Government Departments provide a full range of services to the areas concerned. In addition my Department's area offices at Mildura, Shepparton and Bairnsdale in conjunction with the Melbourne Regional Office are continuously monitoring the implementation of Aboriginal assistance programs throughout Victoria and Southern New South Wales. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have received representations from some groups concerning the freeze on the release of unalienated Crown land in the Northern Territory. In my replies, and in answers to several questions in the Parliament, I have indicated that there is no reason for concern that the ending of the freeze will adversely affect Aboriginal interests. I refer in particular to my answer to a question without notice on 2 November by the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition. 
As I indicated in that reply, I do not believe that any extension of the freeze is required, but I will be glad to consider requests for an extension if it can be established that it is necessary. 
I am not in a position to give the honourable gentleman a detailed answer to the question. I will seek the information from my colleague the Minister for Education and give it to him as soon as I am able to do so. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the nongovernment schools building program; advance approvals of grants and loan guarantees. 
I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia. A limited number of copies of the report are available from the Bills and Papers Office. Several copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I ask for leave to make a short statement in respect of the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the financial year 1 975-76 a total of 87 houses were funded for construction or purchase for Aboriginals in the Electoral Division of Grey; 45 of these were funded through direct grants to Aboriginal associations, and the rest by Commonwealth grants to the South Australian Government. 
In the financial year 1976-77 it is expected that 27 houses will be funded by direct grants to Aboriginal organisations and approximately 15 by grants to the State- an approximate total of 42. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the Postgraduate Award Scheme. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of this Report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
Pursuant to section 59 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973 I present a statement on financial assistance granted to each State through Schools Commission programs during the 1975 calendar year. 
I move: 
1 ) That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs: The health problems of Aboriginals with particular attention to- 
the prevalence of different types of disease suffered by Aboriginals and Aboriginal communities; 
the relationship between Aboriginal health and environmental, social and cultural factors; 
the effectiveness of existing health care programs for Aboriginals generally, and the adequacy of Western European-type health services to cope with the health problems of Aboriginals, and 
alternative methods of health care delivery that take account of Aboriginals' life styles, including camp situations. 
That the committee consider ways and means by which- 
persons with appropriate qualifications can be encouraged to assist Aboriginals achieve a better standard of health, and 
Aboriginals including traditional healers can participate in the development and delivery of health care services to their own communities, and in any modification of existing services. 
That the committee recommend possible courses of action. 
Honourable members will recall the discussion initiated by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in this House on 3 November as a matter of public importance that the Government make a commitment to eliminate certain diseases from Aboriginal communities and establish a select committee of the House to this end. In the course of the ensuing debate my colleague, the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  expressed the Government's concern at the health problems of Aborigines, particularly such diseases as trachoma and its incidence in central and northern Australia amongst the remote communities. The Minister spoke also of the readiness of the Government to consider the establishment of an appropriate committee to investigate this matter. 
The Government's total funding for health services to Aborigines for 1976-77 is $ 15.9m. In addition to this, special funds of $600,000 have been provided by the Department of Health and my Department for a task force to conduct a pilot study to deal with trachoma and eye health amongst Aboriginal communities in central Australia. In the light of the earlier debate and the Government's own desire to seek a closer study of problems associated with eliminating diseases in Aboriginal communities, the Government has now decided that these problems of Aboriginal health should be referred to the Standing Committee of this House on Aboriginal Affairs for examination and to report its recommendations progressively to the Government. The Standing Committee already has in hand a study of alcohol problems amongst Aborigines in the course of which evidence on health factors has been given. It seems more appropriate therefore to build on the present work and developing expertise of the Standing Committee than to establish a new and separate committee to deal with incidences of particular diseases amongst Aboriginals. 
I note that in the third main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty presented by the Reverend George S. Martin, attention has been drawn to some specific problems in Aboriginal health which require investigation. I expect that the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs will therefore find that report of value as well as the Senate Committee's report on environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders which make some specific recommendations on Aboriginal health. Those recommendations are already under study by my Department in conjunction with the Department of Health. 
by leave- I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the introduction and second reading of an Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976 [No. 2]. 
I should explain that with the concurrence of the Opposition, action has been taken to reprint the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976 which is presently before this House as Order of the Day No. 1. The reprinted Bill incorporates the amendments which I foreshadowed m my statement to the House on 17 November and which were circulated that day. The reprinted Bill will facilitate consideration of the legislation by honourable members. It is intended to discharge the existing Order of the Day when the House has passed the reprinted Bill. 
This amendment is not acceptable. With a fair reading of the provisions of clause 70 and a better understanding of the operations of the Bill on the part of the Opposition, the Opposition would understand why it is necessary to allow time for the special proclamation of clause 70. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that clause 70 ( 1 ) provides as follows: 
Except in the performance of functions under this Act or otherwise inaccordance with this Act or a law of the Northern Territory, a person shall not enter or remain on Aboriginal land. 
The time that will be allowed will enable the passing of the necessary Northern Territory law as foreshadowed both by this Bill and by statements I have made in support of the Bill. The various arguments put forward by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  can be seen, upon examination, to be quite specious. My friend the honourable member forthe Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  pointed out the error of the continuing proposition of the honourable member for Hughes that it will be the Legislative Assembly which administers the rights of entry to Aboriginal land. 
-It is what the honourable member says will happen. This Parliament does not administer the laws that it passes. That is done by the departments of government or the authorities clothed with the particular function. It is clearly indicated in the statements I have made that the laws relating to entry will operate through land councils and with respect to the wishes of the clan or community councils, many of which are already established in the Northern Territory and which also will be capable of incorporation under the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill previously passed by the House. 
-That is the fact of the matter. 
The honourable gentleman knows from the contents of the Bill and the statements I have made that what I say is correct and it will happen. I also point out to the 2 honourable members opposite, both of whom are former Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs and ought to know- if they do not, I will tell them now- that there is in existence the Social Welfare Ordinance of the Northern Territory which presently controls entry to Aboriginal land. That Ordinance will continue to operate until such time as it is superseded by a law of the Northern Territory which is passed in accordance with the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act and which is acceptable to me. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be omitted stand part of the Bill. 
-The Government cannot accept the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I think it is most unfortunate that the honourable member for Mackellar should use such exaggerated language in his debating of this Bill. He used a similar kind of language when debating the second reading speech, and here he is again using the same words, such as betrayal and defrauding of the traditional birthright of Aborigines. I think, with the greatest of respect to the honourable member, that it does not do his intellect any justice to hear the arguments which he has put forward.  His  amendment would limit the operation of the Bill to those Aborigines who are traditional owners. The arguments of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would do the same. What neither honourable gentleman knows or acknowledges is that many Aborigines are not traditional owners but they have a traditional interest in the land. Traditional owners form a special and very small class of Aborigines within the clan group and who by reason of Aboriginal law and by Aboriginal custom, one might say by inheritance or by choice according to Aboriginal law or custom, are the owners of the land. They are not the owners for themselves with a proprietary interest such as you,  Mr Lucock,  and I have in our land. They are the owners for all Aborigines who, by reason of their clan grouping, have a traditional interest of one kind or another in that land, to live on it, to use it, to pass through it or to attend ceremonies upon it. 
I should have thought that the honourable member for Mackellar and the honourable member for the Northern Territory would either have known or have acknowledged the distinctionit is a fundamental distinction- between the traditional owner and the Aboriginal who has a traditional interest. Therefore, if the amendment of the honourable gentleman were accepted he would exclude from the protection and the benefit of this Bill all those Aborigines who have traditional interests in the land. 
The particular definition is adopted on the advice of the Parliamentary Counsel as being the definition which conforms with the constitutional power of the Commonwealth to make special laws with respect to people of any race. Hence, the definition of an Aboriginal is a person of the Aboriginal race. Some might say that that is tautological. If the matter were ever in dispute it would be a question of law and fact to be determined by the courts. The honourable member for the Northern Territory mentioned  Mr Peterson  and spoke of a definition put forward by him. I direct the attention of the honourable gentleman to the definition of Aboriginal provided in the draft Bill annexed to the report of  Mr Justice  Woodward. The definition is that an Aboriginal means a descendant of an indigenous inhabitant of Australia. I should have thought that that meant the same as the definition which we have in the Bill. I direct attention to the limitations on membership of certain organisations which are established under the Bill, particularly land trusts and land councils. I refer to clauses 4, 7, 21 and 23. Through the mechanism of those limitations the kinds of fears which the honourable member for Mackellar has asserted are not only diminished but are obliterated. 
Sitting suspended from 6.2 to 8 p.m. 
-The Government's attitude towards the amendments is that we do not accept them. I refer briefly to a number of pertinent points. The question of roads was raised by the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  I direct his attention to my reply in the second reading debate on the original Bill, when I explained fully the protection given by the legislation to the position of roads through Aboriginal land. I suggest that if the honourable gentleman reads that he will be satisfied as to the requirements of the Bill. Reference was made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  about the definition of mining interest, particularly the exclusion of renewals of mining interests. I simply point out that the amendments originally proposed by the Government, which are now incorporated in this Bill, are more restrictive of the rights of mining companies holding mining interests which contain a right of renewal than the original provision in this respect in the Bill which I introduced on 4 June. The point is that the only rights of renewal which are protected are statutory rights in existence prior to the land becoming Aboriginal land. 
With respect to the amendment moved by the Opposition to include a reference to land in towns, the Opposition has drawn on  Mr Justice  Woodward's report. Without elaboration I refer the Committee to paragraphs 274 and 328, item 9, of his report, and remind the Committee that the legislation deals exclusively with traditional land rights. In that respect, to maintain consistency, the Government decided that any request by Aboriginal groups to land in towns should be dealt with outside the Bill and through the ordinary administration of land use in the Northern Territory.  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward, when speaking of town claims, clearly indicated that the tenure of any land in towns by Aborigines should be the same kind of tenure as that for all other persons and that any requests for such land should go through the normal town planning procedures of the Northern Territory. That will be done. As I indicated in my initial second reading speech and subsequent statements, and with particular reference here to Alice Springs, the Government is committed to satisfying the requirements of Aborigines for land in towns such as camping areas and other areas of land for residential use. That commitment will be maintained. In fact it is being worked out right at the moment in Alice Springs. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 9- by leave-taken together. 
The explanation is straightforward. The deletion of the reference to communities is designed to bring the clause into line with other provisions to the effect that the land is held for the benefit of groups of Aborigines entitled by tradition to its use and occupation. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 10. 
For the purposes of this section, a lease of land granted under a law of the Northern Territory relating to mining for minerals shall be deemed to be an estate or interest in that land if the lease was granted before the date of commencement of this section or in pursuance of an agreement entered into by the Commonwealth before that date. 
The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. I refer to two or three matters in order to clarify the position. The amendment which the Government has made to the Bill which I introduced on 4 June will preserve the special purpose leave granted to Nabalco at Gove under the special purpose lease ordinance and the Mining Gove Peninsula Nabalco Agreement Ordinance by ensuring that these are treated as land leases to be held in escrow and not mining interests. In other words, in the same way as the Bill preserves existing interests in land, in these respects the Bill preserves the special rnining interests of the companies at Nabalco. 
I point out also to honourable members opposite that the Government has protected the Aboriginals in situations such as that at Gove and Groote Eylandt in that, where extensions are required to the interests in land of the companies  concerned pursuant to contractual obligations of the Commonwealth entered into with the companies, those companies must negotiate proper terms and conditions for any new lease. Where, however, the companies require new mineral leases, the granting of those new mineral leases will be subject to the same requirements of consent and negotiation of fair terms as all other mineral interests. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 11 (Recommendations for grants of Crown land, other than that described in Schedule 1). 
I refer the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  as I referred the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  to the explanation that I gave in reply to the second reading debate on the Bill with regard to roads. It is clear that honourable members opposite have not read or understood the provisions of the Bill relating to roads. I refer them particularly to clauses 65, 66 and 68 of the Bill. I shall check those clause numbers in view of the incorporation of amendments in the Bill. They are the clauses to which I referred in my reply to the second reading debate. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 12. 
A deed of grant under this section shall be expressed to be subject to the reservation that the right to all minerals existing in their natural condition, or in a deposit of waste material obtained from any underground or surface working, on or below the surface of the land remains with the Crown. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  for a number of reasons. I will put to the Committee the 2 matters of substance. Firstly, the suggestion by the honourable member, admirable as it is, was not accepted either by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward in his report or by the previous Administration.  His  Honour wrestled with the question as to the nature of the rights which Aboriginals should have to minerals that might be found within Aboriginal land. It was put to him by one of the land councils that Aboriginals should have the absolute ownership of minerals found on Aboriginal land.  His  Honour rejected that and in its place granted to Aboriginals the veto power, as it is called- that is, the right to withhold consent to the grant of a mining interest over Aboriginal land, qualified however by the power in the Government to override that in the national interest, and qualified again by the power of Parliament to disallow the Government's action in invoking the national interest. 
The other matter that concerns the Government is that if the honourable member's amendment were followed through it would restrict Crown ownership of minerals in Aboriginal land to lands later granted on the recommendations of the Aboriginal Land Commission and ensure that in the case of lands included in the Schedule- that is mainly the existing reservesfreehold title would not be subject to reservation of minerals to the Crown. This would have the effect of separating those Aboriginals who obtained title to the existing reserves and other areas set out in the Schedule from those who later and by virtue of the machinery under the Bill obtain a title to their own traditional land. It seems to me that a point of distinction cannot be validly drawn between Aboriginal land which is traditional Aboriginal land and which presently is constituted by existing reserves, and other land, whether it be vacant Crown Land or alienated land, which later is found by the land commissioner to be traditional land and in respect of which on his recommendation a grant of title under the Bill is given to the Aboriginals concerned. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
Sub-section (1) does not prevent the grant by the Crown of an estate or interest in land referred to in that subsection in any of the following circumstances: 
where- 
an arbitrator appointed by the Minister is satisfied, after hearing both the views of the applicant and the views of the Land Council on the matter, that the hardship that would be occasioned to the applicant by a refusal of his application would be greater than the hardship that would be occasioned to the Aboriginal communities or groups interested in the land by an approval of the application; 
-I should first like to explain the purposes of clause 13 and then refer to the particular provisions mentioned by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  This clause prevents the Crown from granting interest in Aboriginal land the subject of a title deed held in escrow except where the Crown is obliged, under law, to grant such interest or the relevant land council consent or in the circumstances outlined in sub-clause 2(b). With respect to subclause 2 (b)(B). might I point out to the honourable gentleman that the provisions cast a burden upon the applicant to make out his case before the Arbitrator and thereby override the interests of the Aboriginals. In that sense, the applicant having such a burden, the interests of the Aboriginals are, by the force of the legislation, superior. That has the same effect as that which the honourable member is seeking, namely, to recognise the paramountcy of the Aboriginal interests. Therefore, it is not necessary for the Government to accede to the proposed amendment because, as I have indicated, the legislation already recognises the superiority of Aboriginal interests. I also mention that it does not refer to mining interests, but estates or interest in land. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 14 (Occupation, etc., by the Crown, etc., on Aboriginal land, vested in land trust). 
The Government cannot accept the amendment. The Bill as I have indicated before deals with traditional land rights. The granting of land to an Aboriginal council would not be in the nature of a traditional land right.  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Woodward, at paragraph 89 of his report recommended the use of a trust, that is a land trust, in all cases for convenience of legislation and ease of understanding. The Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill which was passed recently by this chamber allows for the creation of Aboriginal councils and the holding of land by those councils. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clauses 2 1 and 22- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 23 (Functions of Land Council). 
The amendment which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has moved is implicit in the legislation because, from their very nature, identification and mapping of such sites would not be done in breach of Aboriginal usage. The intention of the amendment apparently is to ensure that the register does not record, or at least does not make available to unauthorised persons, information on secret or sacred matters. There is no reason whatever why the recording and mapping of sites for the purpose of identifying clan areas- and that is the purpose of this work- need incorporate any such material. It could be done by the simple location and nomination of sites without additional information and might often be done without referring to the most sacred or dangerous sites, and certainly without including any secret or sacred information. It seems preferable to leave a matter of this kind to the Aboriginals of the land councils who are themselves well versed in Aboriginal lore and custom. Indeed, there is already throughout Australia mapping of such sites. The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies undertakes this kind of work, as I am sure the honourable member for Mackellar would acknowledge. However, I do acknowledge the force of what the honourable member says. For that reason, I am prepared to accede to the amendment. However, I do not accept the force of the reasons advanced in support of the amendment- I must say with respect- by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  The advice received by this Government on the contents of this Bill has come from traditional Aboriginal land owners and others who have traditional interests in Aboriginal land. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 25 to 39- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 40 (Grants of mining interests). 
The Government cannot accept either of the proposed amendments. The first amendment deals with vacant Crown land and the second with alienated Crown land. That distinction needs to be borne in mind when considering the amendments. The first proposed amendment would give Aboriginals only 12 months in which to lodge claims to vacant Crown land. There has been a freeze against the alienation of any vacant Crown land until 31 December this year, pending the lodgment of any claims by Aboriginals to any part of that vacant Crown land. After 3 1 December this year there will be no alienation in respect of any land for which a claim has been made. 
It is difficult to see any reason to increase the existing pressure on Aboriginals to lodge such claims, since this is likely to induce them to make hasty or even unwise claims to land which is waste and likely to remain so. In this respect I refer the Committee to what was said by  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Woodward, at paragraph 161 of his report. After a lengthy consideration of the nature of areas already held by Aboriginals as reserves and other parts of the Northern Territory, he said of vacant Crown land: 
This is equally true of much of the remaining unalienated Crown lands. Aboriginal people should think carefully before laying claim to any areas which are not going to be of value to them- particularly since they have unimpeded access to this country at present if they want to visit it for any traditional purposes. 
I am quite satisfied that, as the present claims or pending claims are worked out, there will be no clash between other interests in the Northern Territory and Aboriginals in respect of the balance of vacant Crown land. 
The second amendment would require the Land Commissioner to complete his inquiry which is authorised under the Bill and his report on claims to alienated land within 18 months. This seems quite impracticable, being too short a time, given the likely pressure on the Commissioner to report on claims to vacant land and land leased by Aboriginals, such as Wave Hill, Willowra, Kildurk and the Tanami Desert. It also seems undesirable, since it is a difficult task which might properly take several years to complete satisfactorily, depending on the interest of Aboriginals in lodging claims and the Commissioner's ability to compile an adequate register of land owning groups outside reserves. If the Commissioner is given the time to make his inquiry, based on evidence put before him, and with objectivity, I am quite sure that there will not be any pressure on existing interests holding alienated Crown land, or undue pressure on Aboriginals, and there will not be any clash between Aboriginals and others in the Northern Territory. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 51 to 67- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 6 7 A. 
I thank my colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  for what he has said so as to clarify the position of the legislation, particularly with respect to the assurances that have been given and the participation of this Government, through me as Minister, in the preparation of the complementary legislation. Might I refer the Opposition to the provisions of clause 73 ( 1 ) (a) which will require the Legislative Assembly ordinances to accord with certain stipulations that are directed towards protecting the interests of Aboriginals. Might I also with respect to the amendment refer members of the Opposition to sub-clause (6) and point out to them what they are proposing to do with regard to sacred sites which they seek to protect. That sub-clause envisages the legal desecration of sacred sites in relation to a mining operation. Not only that, a proposal of this nature negates the whole intention of this section as it further envisages the sale of a sacred site to rnining interests. That is the proposal put forward by members of the Opposition who are so intent on denigrating rnining in the name of upholding Aboriginal interests. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 70 ( Entry on Aboriginal land ) 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said that no explanation was given for the deletion of the Tanami wildlife sanctuary from the Schedule to the Bill. I refer the honourable gentleman to page 278 1 of Hansard where the position of the Government with respect to this area is fully explained. 
Amendment negatived. 
Schedule agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. The Garden Point Council decided that it would have to reduce the level of employment from 3 1 October if no additional funds could be made available. The Council was notified that further allocations were to be made and was asked to maintain employment levels. I understand that the threatened reductions in employment have not been made. 
Yes. 
See answer to ( 1 ) and (2 ). 
Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm  (Question No. 1407) 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2)I refer the honourable member to the following publications for available information: 
Budget Paper No. 7: Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities 1975-76, 1976-77. 
Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3: Appropriation Acts (No. l),(No.2)for all relevant years. 
Australian Bureau of Statistics annual publications: 
Expenditure on Education- Reference No. 5.44 
-The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I ) The  majority of students who  will receive allowances under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme in 1 977 will be better off financially compared with the situation in 1976. Allowances have been increased substantially, by up to 40 per cent in the case of students who are independent of parental support; the limit of family income at which the maximum allowance is payable has been increased and requirements relating to the student's program have been eased where a student is unable to undertake a full study load because of course requirements or arising out of a direction by the student 's institution. 
These changes will have the effect of enabling a number of students who did not qualify for benefits in 1976 to receive assistance in 1977. 
However, students who receive assistance from other Commonwealth awards will no longer be eligible for Tertiary Education Assistance. Other students who receive substantial amounts from employment or from other, nonCommonwealth awards will have their allowances reduced. The number who will be affected in 1 977 is not known. 
The Williams Committee, which in 1975 reviewed the scheme, recommended that a student's own income should be means tested over the calendar year, since the allowance is intended to contribute to the support of the student for the calendar year, and not only the academic year. The Government has accepted this recommendation. Students who in 1977 will earn more than $ 1 500, however, will not automatically lose their allowance. For every $2 earned in excess of $1500 a student's allowance will be reduced by $1. Previously the reduction for dependent students was $1 for $1 and that for independent students was $ 1 for every $1.50. 
The Government is mindful that not all students who work during the long vacation also work part-time during the year. In these cases income earned may not exceed $1500 and the issue would not arise. 
There are two aspects to this question. In the first place, bonded teacher trainees have always been ineligible. Some states have moved recently to provide unbonded teacher training scholarships. Students are currently able to receive up to $600 from unbonded scholarships without affecting their allowances. In arriving at its decision to reduce this amount to $150 from 1977, the Government accepted the recommendation of the Williams Committee on this matter. The Committee felt that an amount as high as $600 ran contrary to the purpose of the means test designed to measure the level of support required by needy students. 
The maximum allowance of $43 per week payable to independent students in 1977 will represent an increase of more than $12 per week over the 1976 figure. Increases for dependent students are $7 per week for those living away from home and $5 per week for those living at home. 
In 1 976, 27 per cent of all TEAS beneficiaries were receiving maximum independent rates. An additional 48 per cent were receiving the maximum amount applicable to the two categories of dependent students. It must be assumed that the remainder received some support from either their own resources or their families. 
No significant change in these proportions can be predicted. 
The Minister for Education has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Government and Catholic education authorities in each State are responsible for developing procedures for determining which of their schools should be declared as disadvantaged, and a variety of measures of the socioeconomic nature of the communities served by the schools are employed in these selection processes. I understand that most States are using scales based upon the work of Broom, Jones and Zubrycki as a part of their procedures; it is my information that in all such instances other measures- such as the incidence of non-English speaking migrants, student retention rates, truancy, pupil performance, for exampleare also used, and that local knowledge and common sense play a large part in the determination of which schools should participate in the Disadvantaged Schools Program. 
Officers involved in administering the Program in both Government and Catholic systems meet together from time to time and discuss various measures of disadvantage and its educational manifestations; relevant studies being carried out by particular education authorities are presented and considered at these meetings. Organisers of the Disadvantaged Schools Program are aware of, and in some instances participate in, the researches in this field being conducted by the Australian Council for Educational Research, by some university education departments and by other agencies. 
Not applicable. 
While reiterating that the process of selecting schools for declaration as disadvantaged is a matter for the education authorities in the States, I would add that it is my understanding that the Victorian Education Department is currently reviewing it procedures for determining socioeconomic disadvantage and is indeed devoting considerable effort to refining the methods of selecting its disadvantaged schools. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first reports of the Local Government Grants Commissions of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, together with related statistical information in respect of Queensland, Western Australia and New South Wales. In addition, I present the text of a statement by the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs relating to these documents. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of these documents have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and in the Parliamentary Library. 
by leave-I inform the House that the Council for Aboriginal Affairs is winding up its activities and at its own suggestion terminated on 30 November after nearly 9 years of valuable service to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait people and to successive Commonwealth governments. I need hardly say that its disbandment in no way implies a diminution of the Government's resolve to lift Aboriginal standards of well-being or a pause in the flow of resources or real consideration towards that purpose. It signifies only that in the joint opinion of the Council, the Government, and representative Aboriginal organisations an advisory and consultative task which was always envisaged as transient has come to an end and can now properly pass to others. The termination of the Council coincides with the receipt and study of the report of the Hiatt Committee of Inquiry into the future organisation and role of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. This seems an appropriate time, while the Government is considering the future style of consultation with the Aboriginal people, to make the break with the Council which was responsible for much of the consultative process at an earlier stage. 
The Council for Aboriginal Affairs is a most unusual body set up in unique circumstances to do a job for which, in any case, there seems to have been no precedent, but which grew more and more urgent and complicated. The late Harold Holt, as Prime Minister, in November 1967 commissioned the Council to do certain things. It was to oversee the establishment of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs; to advise the Government upon the formation of national policies to give effect to the new obligations imposed on the Commonwealth by the 1967 referendum in respect of Aborigines; to consult directly with Aboriginal people and organisations about their wishes and felt needs; to become the avenue of Aboriginal approaches to Government; to establish and ensure good working relationships at the official level between Commonwealth and State instrumentalities in the Aboriginal field; and as far as practicable to co-ordinate the working out of the then highly variable policies and administrative practices throughout Aboriginal Australia. Subsequently, other duties were added. In 1971 the Council was made responsible for recommending the acquisition by the Commonwealth of land for Aboriginal communities; in 1973 for watching over the interests of the Torres Strait Islanders in negotiations over the Australia-Papua New Guinea border; and later in the same year for discussing with officials of the Queensland Government possible amendments of Acts of that State Parliament affecting Aboriginals and Islanders. I feel that I should say, though for reasons into which I need not at the moment enter, these tasks were made the harder by the informality of the Council's position. It was not given either statutory or even chartered recognition and, for its first 5 years- until late in 1973- often had to depend for its effect only upon the rational appeal of its proposals and the force of its personalities. Perhaps fortunately, each of the 3 members-  Dr H.  C. Coombs, Emeritus Professor W. E. H. Stanner and  Mr B.  G. Dexter- brought to the assignment a long experience of the inner workings of Government and public authorities, a large fund of specialised knowledge, a capacity to act jointly, and a remarkably similar vision of their task. 
If honourable members who are in a position to do so will cast their minds back to 1967 they will, I am sure, agree with me that there have been many significant changes in the Aboriginal scene. These reflect the Council's influence. It may well turn out to be the case that its greatest contribution has been its insistent confidence that the Aboriginal people, if given a chance, could demonstrate their capacity to manage their own affairs. I would attribute largely to the Council's tireless efforts to go to the Aborigines and to listen to their own statement of their viewpoint and wishes the present healthy fact that everywhere within Australia Aborigines now approach Government without inhibition or hesitation, speak up for themselves in no uncertain way, and are quick to demand the full measure of their constitutional rights. This is not the occasion for me to attempt to judge other respects in which the Council has performed its duties. When the Office of Aboriginal Affairs became a department, and in the second half of 1973, began to develop the full capacities of a department, the Council has withdrawn to the sidelines of policyplanning and day-by-day administration. More recently, it has withdrawn into the background and has concentrated on particularly critical matters of policy and on projects referred to it by the Minister or the Permanent Head. 
I should like to place on Parliamentary record the Government's appreciation of the services of each of the 3 members of the Council. I believe that  Dr Coombs'  contribution as  Chairman  is among the most significant of his many public services. The third member of the Council,  Mr Dexter,  has been Council's Executive Member and in that capacity and as Director of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and since 1973 Secretary and Permanent Head of the first Department of Aboriginal Affairs has ably carried out an onerous task and lead a dedicated staff. Professor Stanner, in addition to playing a full part in the work of the Council and contributing particularly from his great anthropological knowledge, also acted a Special Adviser to several Standing Committees of this House and will be well known to many members. The Government hopes to retain the part-time services of  Dr Coombs  and Professor Stanner on a consultancy basis for particular tasks on which the Minister or Permanent Head feels a need for their special experience. 
in reply-In closing this debate I wish to make only a few comments on some of the matters that have been mentioned by honourable members. The first point to observe is the triteness of so many of the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the rather paltry excuse he gave for quite and inadequate speech. He said that not sufficient time had been given to examine the legislation and yet the proposals provided for in these Bills were forshadowed in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  The time available was quite adequate for the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  to give a detailed contribution on the mining provisions of the legislation. 
One thing became abundantly clear from the speech of the honourable member for Adelaide. There is no indication at all of the Opposition changing the views that it had when in government of ever increasing the rate and level of government expenditure. He observed that it is easy for politicians to offer to lower taxes but said that all services have to be provided for by the Government. Of course, both propositions are true but they get one nowhere. This country became aware of the inadequacies of the Opposition's policies when under its administration those inadequacies led to ever increasing government expenditure and ever increasing Budget deficits. 
The contribution of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  to this debate was extremely worthwhile. He pointed out how valuable the income equalisation deposits scheme will be to the rural industry. He demonstrated, as the Government has demonstrated, concern for the plight of rural industry and the desire of the Government to lift the overall level of economic activity and the income of individual members of the industry. This is quite the contrary, as the honourable member for Eden-Monaro pointed out, to the attitude displayed continuously by the Opposition when in government. 
It is rather a revelation to hear now, towards the end of 1976, what the Opposition spokesman on natural resources says about the mining industry. He spoke most favourably of what the Government is proposing in these taxation measures because they are aimed at stimulating the mining industry. He pointed to the grave danger Australia will face in the early 1980s when our supplies of crude oil will begin to deplete rapidly. He said that Australia would be slugged with a heavy import bill. That is the message that we tried to drive home to the Government of the day- that is the present Oppositionwhen it was in government for 3 years. For 3 years the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  took no notice. He took as his bible the document referred to by the honourable member for Blaxland and the report of T. M. Fitzgerald on taxation of the mining industry. Probably the 2 most disastrous things for the mining industry in Australia during those 3 years were that report of Fitzgerald and the Ministry of the honourable member for Cunningham. We can be thankful for the good sense of members of the Opposition who elected the honourable member for Blaxland to the front bench and appreciate the good sense that he now displays in that position which is in contrast with the position he adopted at the coat tails of the honourable member for Cunningham. 
The honourable member for Blaxland said that the only objection which the Opposition has to the mining taxation proposals concerns the minimum 20 per cent write-off of allowable capital expenditure incurred by mining companies. He mentioned also that the Opposition would support a 10 per cent write-off.  As  indicated by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech, this Government intends to promote a healthy and efficient minerals sector of the economy. The Government considers that a 20 per cent writeoff will greatly help achieve this objective. I point out that 20 per cent is on a diminishing value basis which means that for a mine with a life greater than 5 years- particularly much greater than 5 years- some 67 per cent of the costs incurred in the first year will be deducted over the first 5 years. In this way this will be of greater assistance in meeting the cash flow requirements of mining companies in the early years of the mine than either the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission or the Opposition's proposals. So, the 20 per cent minimum write-off will be a positive stimulus to the mining industry. 
I also add that, if the only measure which the honourable member for Blaxland questions in his judgment of the adequacy or extravagance of the 20 per cent write-off is the 7-year average lending period, that is not the only factor to be taken into account. One of the most urgent needs in the mining industry in Australia today is to have investable funds. The minimum 20 per cent write off of allowable capital expenditure will provide the mining industry with much greater access in the early years of a mine to investable funds which it can pour back into its project for development. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-It is a fact that the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission sought to purchase a property at Archer River. That property is governed by the laws of Queensland and the consent of the Queensland Minister for Lands, Forestry, National Parks and Wildlife Service is required in order to allow the transfer of title. When the application for transfer was lodged it was rejected. The Land Fund Commission, I believe, has had correspondence with the Minister concerned. I also have written to the Minister inquiring the reason why the application for transfer of title was refused. I have not yet received an answer but I assure the honourable gentleman that I will be following this matter up because I regard it as of considerable importance not only to the operations of the Land Fund Commission but also to the Aboriginals on whose behalf the property was to be purchased. As to the other matter referred to by the honourable gentleman, that is, the working party on employment amongst Aboriginals, I have before me at the present time a draft proposal with regard to the conversion of unemployment benefits within communities into work project payments, if I can summarise it in that way. I also have before me a draft proposal prepared by the Department of my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on the general question of Aboriginal employment throughout Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No. The Aboriginal Medical Service received grants totalling $172,498 in 1975-76 as a contribution towards the operating costs of its Redfern Clinic. Additional funds were also provided to cover the cost of a field trip to Wilcannia ($5,288) and as a contribution towards the cost of renovating the AMS new premises ($50,000). My Department has tentatively allocated a sum of $ 1 90,000 to the AMS for 1976-77. This amount will allow the AMS to maintain its existing services and purchase some additional medical equipment. Further discussions are proceeding with AMS as to their funding requirements this financial year. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The reduction is related to the Government's assessment based on reviews carried out by the Hay Inquiry and by my Department but this has been partly offset by an increase of approximately $1.5m in Student Allowances in Aboriginal Scholarship Schemes. 
No. The 1976-77 allocation for Health is: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This has already been answered in the affirmative, in my reply to the honourable member's earlier question (No. 1219,  Hansard  18 November 1976, page 2928). 
and (c) Maps relating to Mining Leases, Exploration Licences etc. are held by the Mines Branch of the Department of the Northern Terrotory in Darwin, and the Minister for the Northern Territory may be able to make these available. My Department is seeking to obtain copies of the relevant maps but it may not be possible to obtain copies from Darwin before the conclusion of debate in the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Special Work Projects commenced so far for 1976-77 in the electoral division of Grey are shown below: 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971 I present the annual report on migrant education for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974, I present a statement of payments to the 
States authorised under that Act for the financial year 1975-76. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to that report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of Aboriginal Hostels Ltd for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
It is really a long time since we have heard so much specious, hollow, hypocritical, insincere humbug as we have just heard from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who has spoken on the funding of political parties. In the history of the Australian Federation no Party has had such a remarkably clean record in government and in Opposition as have the Liberal and National Country Parties. The honourable member for Port Adelaide speaks about donations, which have ties, to political parties. He should remember recent events in his own Party. He is not prepared to listen to this. I notice he is leaving the House. In recent memory is the escapade at breakfast time of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  seeking half a million dollars of Iraqi money to finance the debts incurred by the Labor Party in the last Federal election. What tie was there to be for that money? That was secrecy  par excellence  in that proposed provision of funding for political parties not from inside Australia but from outside Australia. It was obviously intended to tie the fortunes of Australia to a foreign country. What more despicable conduct by a political party is there than that? 
In more recent memory is the $25,000 that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union paid to the Australian Labor Party as the price for getting amendments to the industrial legislation of the Commonwealth as required by that union. What about the conduct of the Premier of South Australia, which is the honourable member for Port Adelaide's own State? The Premier turned against the Federal Leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party because when the Labor Party was in government it introduced amendments to the taxation provisions affecting the wine industry contrary to the commitment that  Mr Dunstan  had made to the wine industry as the price for donations to the Australian Labor Party. What more tied funding of a political party could exist than that? 
It is all very well for the honourable member for Corio to interject but that fact would not have been disclosed if the Australian Labor Party, under the leadership of the present Leader of the Opposition, had not turned against the commitment which had been made.  Mr Dunstan  denounced his leader. That is another example of a secret commitment made to tie political funds to the advantage of a section of the Australian community. 
What humbug, hypocrisy and insincerity we have heard from the lips of the honourable member for Port Adelaide. This is a typical example of the way the Opposition goes about its argument in this field. It uses insinuations without any statement of fact whatsoever to support its argument. The Opposition constantly points the finger at this side of the House and says: What have you to hide? You must have something to hide if you are not prepared to agree with this proposition'. Again, it is the kind of approach that is so shallow that I wonder that the honourable member for Port Adelaide has not learned the lesson of good debate. I think that what I have said is sufficient to indicate why the Government is not prepared to accept the argument put forward here today. 
The Government wonders- as it has wondered before when the Opposition has spoken on this matter- if the Opposition's principal motivation is to seek the disclosure of the source of campaign funds so as to invade the privacy of individuals who contribute to political parties other than the Australian Labor Party. That is inherent in the Opposition's proposition. It wants to be able to have access to names of donors to individual members of Parliament, let alone to political parties. I remind the Opposition that when it proposed this motion when it was in government the former honourable member for Grayndler,  Mr Fred  Daly, who was handling electoral matters for the then Government, refused to accept a proposition put by us when in Opposition that a parliamentary committee be set up to examine electoral reform and to examine the Electoral Act itself. The then Leader of the House indicated at that stage on behalf of the Government that our proposal was a phoney stunt. If our proposal was phoney, the Opposition's proposal today is much more phoney. It completely lacks credibility. 
I remind the honourable gentleman who proposed this motion that a census was conducted recently on the basis of which there will need to be a redistribution. A decision also is pending by the High Court of Australia on a challenge based upon the way in which quotas are fixed for determining the numbers of electors in electorates. The case before the High Court will determine whether people in the Territories are to be taken into account in determining the quota of electors for fixing the size of electorates. For those 2 reasons alone, it is premature to consider the establishment of any parliamentary committee to examine the Electoral Act. As well as that, the Government has said that a review of the Electoral Act is at present under way by the Australian Electoral Office. Let me remind honourable gentlemen that the Australian Electoral Office is a statutory body, independent of political parties. That body is conducting the inquiry and will advise the Government. So the Government can expect an impartial, objective review of the present provisions of the Electoral Act. When it has received that advice, the Government will consider what amendments need to be made to the Electoral Act. Proposals can always be put forward to fix the order on a ballot paper by ballot or by the alphabet or to change the closing time of polling booths on election day. These were a couple of the matters that were mentioned by the honourable member for Corio but they are incidental. I think that if members of the Opposition had some patience they would find that the review being conducted by the Australian Electoral Office, independent of all political parties, will be a satisfactory objective basis for advice to the Government. With those remarks, I think the debate should come to a conclusion and I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
These amendments, agreed to by the Senate, deal with 3 matters and I will explain them shortly to the House. The first concerns the amendment to clause 3 of the Bill, to include in the definition of 'exploration licence ' a reference to 'authorities to prospect'. The amendment is of a technical nature and will make it clear that any authorisation allowing mineral exploration in the nature of the former authority to prospect and the current exploration licence will be treated in a similar manner. 
It was the Government's intention that all exploration rights should be covered in the legislation. The original authorisation to explore, the authority to prospect, was replaced, by an amendment of the Northern Territory Mining Ordinance, by the current exploration licence, which is the term used in the Bill. There was legal doubt whether the exploration licence as referred to in the Bill was a general enough term to cover authorities to prospect. The definition is important, especially in relation to protection of existing interests mainly mineral lease applications which were referred to in clause 40 (3) of the Bill. 
The amendment proposed to clause 40 refers in particular to the agreement entered into by the Commonwealth of Australia with the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd for mining at Groote Eylandt. It has been brought to the Government's attention that the Bill would not have adequately met the Government's legal commitments to protect  existing rights in relation to that agreement. Accordingly this amendment and consequential amendments to clause 43 (2) and the Schedules will guarantee that the Commonwealth is able to meet its legal obligations to grant further mineral leases known as the 'Eastern Areas' under the Groote Eylandt Agreement 1969. The amendment means that it will not be necessary to obtain Aboriginal consent for the granting of these mineral leases but the company will be obliged to negotiate fair terms and conditions with the Aboriginals concerned. That agreement provides that, if the company constructs a smelter before 30 June 1977 or an agglomeration plant by 30 June 1980, additional special mineral leases will be granted by the Commonwealth. 
The company has already met its obligation to construct smelting facilities and an agglomeration plant is close to completion. The company is therefore in a position to call on the Government to meet its obligation to provide additional leases. It is considered appropriate that the Government should be able to meet those obligations through the provisions of this legislation. An additional schedule, Schedule 3, is necessary in relation to new sub-clause 7 of clause 40 to provide a precise description of the areas referred to as the eastern areas of Groote Eylandt. The amendment to clause 43, subclause 2 is consequential upon the amendment which I have just mentioned so as to ensure that where additional leases are granted at Groote Eylandt, pursuant to the agreement into which the Commonwealth has entered, they will be subject to the negotiation of fair terms and conditions with the Aborigines. An additional amendment to this sub-clause is proposed to make it clear that while additional payments may be negotiated, it is not mandatory that agreements between land councils and applicants for mining interests should include provision for the payment of sums of money. As originally drafted, payments, even if only nominal, would have been essential in order to comply with the provision. In some instances, payments additional to statutory royalties and rentals may not be sought by land councils. For example,  Mr Justice  Woodward noted in relation to oil and gas: 
The financial interests of Aborigines would be well served by the appropriation of the 10 per cent royalty payment for their benefit. 
That appears in paragraph 704 of his second report. That explains the purpose and effect of the amendment but I take a moment extra of the time of the House to say something about the work which has gone into the study and preparation of this legislation before it is finally approved by this House and hence by the Parliament. This legislation and the general subject of Aboriginal land rights, as we know, has stirred strong emotions. We have seen this in Parliament and in public. But I think I can say of the debates in this House and in the other place that the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia has shown a consistent dedication to the passage of legislation to fulfil commitments made by all political parties to the granting of land rights to Aborigines in the Northern Territory. 
I express some words of thanks and of recognition to some of those who have been involved over many years in all the work needed to bring such major and complex legislation to fruition. I mention, firstly, the permanent head of my Department,  Mr Barry  Dexter and the  Deputy  Secretary,  Mr Jeremy  Long. As well I thank the staff of my Department which has worked with the utmost dedication and competence in this field over many years.  Mr Dexter,  as the House knows, has been administrative head of Aboriginal Affairs since 1968 when the Commonwealth first took upon itself this responsibility, following the 1967 referendum. I can only judge how much work must have gone into this area over the years before I became Minister from the work which has been put into this task in the 12 months since I have assumed this position. The work has been of a most exhaustive and, some would say, exhausting nature by way of study, analysis, consultation with Aboriginals throughout the Northern Territory. I refer to the analysis of the many representations which came to the Government following my introduction of the Bill on 4 June. Much work has been put into the task by the Parliamentary Counsel. Many hours have been spent in dealing with what I have said is complex legislation which is also technical in many areas as well as operating in one of the most sensitive political areas which have come before this House for many years. 
I mention the work of  Mr Justice  Woodward whose intelligence and understanding is reflected in his report which laid the foundation for elevating public discussion and political policies to the reality of legislation. I freely acknowledge that his inquiry was instituted by the previous Administration of the Australian Labor Party. The result of that inquiry in the reports which  His  Honour put down was quickly accepted in principle by both the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. I thank my colleagues in this House and in the other place who have worked so closely with me and with a sense of duty to the task before them. I particularly mention  Senator Neville  Bonner who, as we know from our work with him as a colleague and also from what he has said publicly in the Senate, has been dedicated ever since he came into the Parliament to the fulfilment of Aboriginal land rights in legislation. 
I mention the work of my colleague,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle, who had the responsibility for the legislation in the Senate. Anyone who observed the way in which she handled the legislation or listened to the debate could only admire the superb way in which she undertook her task. So the task of the Parliament for the time being is now done. But an even greater task hes ahead for the Government and for all members and that is to put the new law into practice so that it may fulfil the aspirations of the Aborigines of the Northern Territory. It is a task which I, the Government and the officers of my Department willingly undertake. We will have the help and the assistance of the parliamentary committee, consituted by members of the Senate and of this House which the Government has proposed. That proposal has already been approved by this House and I expect it will be approved by the Senate. In the further task of putting the legislation into practice there must be the most complete consultation and participation with the Aborigines. I promise them that and I look forward to the opportunity of putting this legislation into practice for their benefit. 
in reply- I wish to reply briefly to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and other Opposition members who have spoken. As I said before, through this legislation is reflected the task which this Government set itself concerning Aboriginal land rights. I am quite satisfied that the Government will be well judged by what it has done in this legislation. It has balanced the interests of the Aboriginals, which it has always aimed to sustain, with certain interests which no government can refuse to acknowledge. It has balanced one against the other. I think by any measure it will be found that the Aboriginal interests are supreme in this legislation. There will be no retreat by this Government from the task that it set itself in Aboriginal affairs, as is reflected in this legislation. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I reject the claim made in the statement. The membership of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training represents a balance of interests and experience between the various sectors of education and the labour market area. The members of the Committee are expected to consider the issues involved from a national standpoint. 
Yes, I have agreed to meet with representatives of the Federation on a regular basis. At our last meeting on 2 1 September I suggested that the Federation should make a submission to the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. 
Summary Measure of the Budget (Question No.  1585) 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
-The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (5) The following table lists, for each of the four Municipalities concerned. 
1 ) the level of Commonwealth Assistance for 1975-76 as recommended by the Commonwealth Grants Commission 
the amount that would be received if the 75 per cent increase in total Commonwealth Assistance to local government for 1 976-77 had been distributed on a pra rata basis 
3 ) the actual 1 976-77 tax sharing allocation and 
the percentage increase of actual 1976-77 allocation over the 1975-76 allocation 
Apart from rates, which are the major revenue source, the income of local government authorities in New South Wales, excluding borrowing, is derived from charges for public works and services, miscellaneous sources such as interest, rent, licences etc., and from Commonwealth and State Government grants. 
The Commonwealth does not have detailed information on these revenue sources other than the allocation of local government's entitlements under the new tax sharing arrangements. This entitlement amounted to $5 1.3m for local government in New South Wales for 1976-77. 
The New South Wales Government distributed one-third ofthe entitlement, amounting to some $ 17.1m, to all Councils on the basis that 87V4 per cent of the amount was distributed on a per capita basis and the balance as an additional grant to Councils with a population density of less than 25 persons per square kilometre. The remaining twothirds of the entitlement, amounting to some $34.2m, was distributed to Councils on the recommendations of the New South Wales Local Government Grants Commission. 
The major purposes to which funds are applied by local government in New South Wales, excluding loan expenditures, are public works and services, general administration and debt servicing and grants to other instrumentalities and bodies. The Commonwealth does not have details of these outlays. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
Federal funds in the form of general revenue grants have been provided since 1974-75. Allocations to these Municipalities have been: 
Leichhardt Municipal Council- 
1974-75 $205,000; 1975-76 $300,000; 
1976-77 $450,000. 
b ) South Sydney Municipal Council- 
1974- 75 $72,000; 1975-76 $150,000; 
1976-77 $275,000. 
Sydney City Council- 1974-75 Nil; 1975- 76 Nil; 1976-77 $450,000. 
In 1974-75 and 1975-76 the funds were paid direct to local government on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
From 1976-77, under the Commonwealth Government's new tax sharing arrangements, the New South Wales Government will distribute funds to local government authorities in the State. For 1976-77 the New South Wales Government distributed one-third of its entitlement to all Councils on the basis that 87 per cent of the amount was distributed on a per capita basis and the balance as an additional grant to Councils with a population density of less than 25 persons per square kilometre. The remaining twothirds of the entitlement was distributed to Councils on the recommendation of the New South Wales Local Government Grants Commission. 
Other payments to local government authorities have been made since 1970 from a range of specific programs, some of which may be made on the initiative of State Governments without further reference to the Commonwealth Government The Commonwealth does not have information on all these payments to individual local government authorities. 
Interdepartmental Committee on Freedom of Information (Question No. 1740) 
-The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) On the basis of past experience about 84 000 students are projected to leave school in New South Wales in the period August 1976 to August 1977, of which about 80 per cent or 68000 are likely to leave in November and December 1976. Of the 68 000 about 56 000 (29 000 males and 27 000 females) would be students in forms 4, 5 and 6 in 1976. 
) On the basis of Australia-wide estimates on the destinations of all school leavers it is projected that approximately 62 000 of the 84 000 school leavers in New South Wales in the period August 1 976 to August 1 977 are likely to enter the labour force directly. The remaining 22 000 are projected to be 'not in the labour force ' in 1 977 with the very large majority of these being engaged in full-time postsecondary study. It is known that most of those engaged in full-time post-secondary study would be leavers from Form 6 but estimates of the destinations of school leavers by form are not available. 
The Depanment of Social Security advises that it cannot be anticipated how many school leavers entering the labour force are expected to be granted unemployment benefits. Unemployment benefit is paid from and including the seventh day after the day on which the claimant became unemployed or made a claim for unemployment benefit, whichever is the later. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer 
The information currently available to him is contained in the following table. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Some institutions charged fees in 1 976 above the levels of assistance set by the Government in 1975. 
The private secretarial colleges which are included in the Government's program of fees assistance have been advised so that the maximum level of fees assistance to be granted in 1977 in respect of courses approved under the program will be limited to the 1976 total. 
The Department of Education does not have this information. 
Information of the type requested by the honourable member is not available at this stage. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Secretarial courses in New South Wales are conducted in Government technical colleges and the Nepean College of Advanced Education. 
I do not have the information the honourable member requires for technical colleges as Government technical colleges in New South Wales are administered by the New South Wales Department of Technical and Further Education which also determines policy on the location of courses, provision of accommodation and admission of students. 
Enrolments in Secretarial Studies at Nepean College of Advanced Education in 1 976 totalled 9. The course was first offered in 1976 and I know of no eligible applicants who were refused admission to the course. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Figures on the intake of physiotherapy students in universities and colleges of advanced education for the period in question are set out in the tables below. 
I might point out to the honourable member that in universities in 1976 the teaching of physiotherapy was restricted to the University of Queensland. Prior to 1976 the University of Sydney had students, all of whom were enrolled for diplomas in the Cumberland College of Health Sciences, undertaking miscellaneous subjects at the University. From 1976 these students undertake all their training at the Cumberland College. 
Projected intakes for 1977 and 1978 are not available, but significant changes are not expected. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Victorian Government is responsible for the administration of primary and secondary education in government schools in Victoria. This responsibility includes the provision of financial assistance to these schools. The school has never applied directly to the Commonwealth, under Schools Commission programs, for assistance. 
Yes. The school was declared a disadvantaged school on the advice of the Victorian Minister of Education. 
The information in respect of rejections would have to be obtained from the Victorian Education Department 
The only information available to the Schools Commission in respect of funded projects at the school is as'' follows: 
In 1975, under the Disadvantaged Schools Program, the school received $4,060 for recurrent purposes and $198,651 for capital purposes. The capital grant was for the conversion of an old Stores Branch for photographic work. 
There is a capacity for all school children at Exhibition High School and in the Electorate of Melbourne to receive financial assistance from the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth makes funds available to the States for government school programs which are additional to those which the States have at their disposal. The distribution of these funds is a State matter. In 1976 $85,267,000 has been allocated to Victoria, under Schools Commission programs, by the Commonwealth for government school projects. These funds are allocated to schools in accordance with the priorities determined by the Victorian Minister of Education. This money directed through Schools Commission programs is additional to that available to the State for education purposes from Commonwealth general revenue grants. 
Four students at Exhibition High School have been receiving assistance in 1976 under the Aboriginal Secondary Grants Scheme. Similar figures are not readily available for the Electoral Division of Melbourne. However, if the honourable member should have any particular school in mind, I will attempt to obtain the relevant figures for him. 
5 ) The only information in respect of this question known to the Schools Commission is that set out in (3) and that the school has received and receives support for migrant education through the Child Migrant Education Program and currently through the Migrant and Multicultural education program ofthe Schools Commission. It is known that under the latter program one teacher at the school is being funded. Further information would have to be obtained from the Victorian Education Department. 
-The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Periods of paid leave from employment whether spent travelling or studying or undertaking any other activity will count towards the 2-year requirement. Any period not spent in employment or on paid leave will not be counted. Thus, students who travel whilst living off savings may not count such periods towards their claim for establishing independence. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) No. My Department has until recently been responsible for providing funds through the Aboriginal Arts Board to such Aboriginal artistic programs as the Black Theatre but as the Prime Minister announced in the House on 3 June, responsibility for the Aboriginal Arts Board has been transferred to the Australia Council. 
A copy of the submission received by my Department from the Aboriginal Black Theatre Arts and Culture Centre has been passed to the Australia Council for its consideration. 
I believe the Centre has made a useful contribution to the Australian Arts and to the Aboriginal community in the past and I am pleased to note renewed activity in the Centre in recent months. 
5) The question of further funding is one for the Australia Council but my Department will continue to liaise with the Council and provide whatever assistance it can. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This sub-clause was included because only Aboriginals would have any part in framing by-laws. NonAboriginals will be ineligible to participate in Council elections. Aboriginal communities could have recourse to measures other than enforcement of by-laws if nonAboriginal residents decline to pay charges or otherwise conform to by-laws. An increasing number will be employees of Aboriginal community organisations, subject to dismissal. In addition, many are employees of Government departments and subject to departmental discipline. 
No. The operation of the Bill will, however, be closely watched for changes shown by experience to be desirable. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Independent Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act 1969, I present a statement of payments made during the year ended 30 June 1976 in respect of all guarantees given under that Act. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not readily available. I am advised that officers of the Schools Commission are endeavouring to compile the information and as soon as this is complete I will write to the honourable member. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not readily available. I am advised that officers of the Schools Commission are endeavouring to compile the information and as soon as this is complete I will write to the honourable member. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following information to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Amounts of expenditure appropriated by Parliament for my portfolio are not allocated by electoral division. 
Details of expenditure by electoral divisions have not been and are not maintained by my Department. 
However, some information about expenditure is available for the division of Macarthur as below. 
In respect of the calendar years 1974 and 1975 the information can be obtained from  Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1973-74: Financial Assistance Granted to Each State in 1974  and  Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1973: Financial Assistance Granted to Each State in 1975.  Information in respect of financial years is not available. The only grants paid direct to government schools are those under the schools Commission's Innovations Program. Grants for government schools in New South Wales are made available to the New South Wales Government. The distribution of grants is left to the New South Wales Minister for Education. In 1976 $83m was advanced to New South Wales for government school programs. The table below details grants paid to non-government schools, and those government schools which received assistance under the Innovations Program, in the electorate of Macarthur in 1976 under programs administered by the Schools Commission. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
to (3) Further to my interim reply (Hansard, 17 February 1977) I can now advise the honourable member that I have had a thorough investigation made of both published reports and other sources of information and find that it is not possible to answer the question. 
In view of the workload involved I am not prepared to authorise a special approach to State Government authorities or non-government school authorities to obtain the information the honourable member has sought. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer: 
(a) The University of Sydney has 10 faculties which are as follows: 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Further to my interim reply (Hansard 17Februaryl977)I can now advise the honourable member that I have had a thorough investigation made of both published reports and other sources of information and find that it is not possible to answer the question. 
In view of the workload involved I am not prepared to authorise a special approach to State Government authorities or non-government school authorities to obtain the information the honourable member has sought. 
The honourable gentleman correctly restates the statements which I made to this House back in November last year. The commitment then given by the Majority Leader of the Legislative Assembly, through the Minister for the Northern Territory, was that the complementary legislation would be prepared with my involvement and with my agreement. That commitment still stands. There was consultation between  Dr Letts  and me in December just after this Parliament rose, and then officers held discussions on 28 January. It is a fact that I had not seen the legislation before it was introduced into the Legislative Assembly. I have now seen it. In fact, I saw it today. I am studying it. I spoke to  Dr Letts  about the matter today. The stand that I took last year is the stand I take now. I give the commitments that I have given previously to the Aboriginal people. Their wishes will be taken into account and the legislation will be studied to see that it accords with Commonwealth policies. 
I move: 
1 ) That a Joint Select Committee be appointed to examine and report on- 
the operation of provisions of the  Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act  1976 relating to the identification of traditional owners of Aboriginal land and the means of establishing the views of such owners to the satisfaction of the relevant Land Council; 
the adequacy of provisions of the laws of the Northern Territory relating to entry to Aboriginal land, the protection of sites of significance, wildlife conservation and entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land, and 
any other matters referred by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
That the committee consist of the S members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs nominated by the Prime Minister, the 3 members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs nominated by the Leader of the Opposition, and 3 Senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and 3 Senators nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister or by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the committee, the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of 3 or more of its members and to refer to any sub-committee any of the matters which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any adjournment of the Parliament. 
That 7 members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of the members of a subcommittee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That in matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  presiding at the meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, have a casting vote, and that, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
That the committee or a sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time, that its final report be presented by 18 August 1977 and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the minutes of evidence and records of the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory appointed during the First Session of the Thirtieth Parliament. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
The submission has not yet been put to the Government. It is still being worked on by my Department, the Department of Social Security and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
That may well appear strange to the honourable member but the fact of the matter is that this is not only an important area for consideration but also it is a difficult area. It is one thing to hand out money as the Opposition did when it was in government without real effect upon the problem. What the Government wants to see is that when it puts money into reducing unemployment, it is effective and works for the benefit of individuals. The Government also wants to see that when it puts money into communities, despite their locality and the natural lack of employment opportunities, there is real opportunity of worthwhile work for the benefit of Aboriginal people in those communities. 
I recall the report referred to by the honourable member. I also recall that it was introduced into this House, on a bipartisan basis, I believe by you,  Mr Speaker,  when you were Leader of the Opposition, together with the present Leader of the Opposition. This is not a matter in relation to which the Government can take unilateral action. The honourable member will know that the major responsibility for education is vested in the States. Therefore any moves to implement any aspect of the report will require the co-operation of the States. The Government takes this report seriously. As a first step my colleague, the Minister in the other place, raised the report at the meeting of the Australian Education Council held in Hobart in February, and he found the State Ministers for Education to be sympathetic. There was a general agreement that, apart from the specialised recommendations, the report pointed to the classroom teacher as the key to any success being achieved on this overall question. It must be recognised that this is not a matter which can be dealt with in a piecemeal manner; it must be looked at in the context of the whole of education. 
by leave- For the information of honourable members, I present details of the establishment of the National Aboriginal Education Committee. It is now almost 10 years since the 1967 referendum widened the Commonwealth Government's responsibility for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islands people. This period has seen the growth of more interest and activity in Aboriginal education than ever before with Commonwealth funds developing programs and helping education authorities throughout the country to make special efforts for Aboriginal people at all levels of education. In all these activities there has been some consultation and involvement of Aboriginal people. In 1974 the Schools Commission appointed an Aboriginal Consultative Group to assist it in obtaining representative views from Aboriginal groups and communities. Later, in October 1975, the Department of Education, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Schools Commission agreed that a permanent advisory group should be set up. Consultations between them, and with the Aboriginal Consultative Group, led to a proposal for establishment of a National Aboriginal Education Committee, with a wholly Aboriginal membership. The Goverment has accepted that proposal. 
The Committee will be responsible for providing the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and his Department with informed Aboriginal views on the educational needs of Aboriginal people and appropriate methods of meeting these needs. Its advice will be available also to me and my Department and other authorities concerned with education of Aboriginal people. It will assist the Department of Education and other agencies in monitoring existing programs and in developing programs and policies and will be able to undertake and promote investigations, studies and projects on which to base its advice. This Committee will be attached to and serviced by the Department of Education. The establishment of the Committee places significant responsibilities in the hands of Aboriginal people. I trust it will contribute to policy initiatives which will serve to redress the educational imbalance which Aboriginal people experience and which will recognise the culturally plural nature of Australian society. I hope these initiatives will foster education programs and activities which will assist Aboriginal people to live satisfying lives, sharing in and contributing to the total Australian society. 
The Committee is headed by a full-time  chairman  with 18 part-time members who will provide a range of expertise in this area of education and an invaluable understanding of Aboriginal needs and problems.  Mr Stephen  Albert, a tribal member of the Bardi people of Western Australia, has been appointed as the  Chairman  of the Committee for a period of 3 years. He is highly educated and cultivated in Aboriginal society, and qualified to hold a position for which a deep appreciation of the needs of Aboriginal people is essential.  Mr Albert  has lectured to school students and trainee teachers, he has been a member of the Regional Council for Social Development in Alice Springs and was a member of the Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement in Adelaide. He is a qualified tradesman and is currently undertaking studies at a college of advanced education.  His  experience of traditional Aboriginal education and contemporary Australian education will be of great benefit to the 
Committee. Other members of the Committee will normally be appointed for part-time terms of 2 years. Half of the initial members are being appointed for one year, and half for 2 years. This is being done so as to allow for progressive changes in membership while ensuring a degree of continuity in the Committee's work. All members will be able to seek reappointment at the end of their initial term. The names of members appointed and the durations of their appointments are given in a list which I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
-The proposed members have been carefully selected to form a team balanced as far as possible in terms of factors including geographical location, educational specialisation, and variety of community experience. A large number of people have been nominated for the Committee and it is the strong hope of my colleague, the Minister for Education, that those who did not achieve selection this time, will renominate in future. That so many well-qualified people have shown their interest augurs well for the success of the Committee. I commend to the House the formation of this specialist committee in Aboriginal education. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to take up an increase of $US346.1m in its capital subscription to the Asian Development Bank, of which $US34.6m is to be paid in, and the remainder to be on call. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Asian Development Bank is a regional development finance institution which was established in 1966, with its headquarters in Manila, for the purpose of lending funds, promoting investment and providing technical assistance to developing member countries with a view to generally fostering economic growth and co-operation in the Asian and Pacific regions. To the end of December 1976, the Bank had lent about SUS3.4 billion to its developing member countries for projects covering all the major sectors of economic development with emphasis on the development of infrastructure facilities in the transport and communications industry and electric power sectors as well as projects for agriculture, education, water supply and urban development. 
The Bank's lending activities are divided into 'ordinary operations' and 'special operations'. 'Ordinary operations' are financed on the basis of the bank's capital resources either directly or through borrowings in the world's capital markets. 'Special operations' involve loans made on highly concessional terms to the Bank's poorest and least developed member countries and are now provided from direct contributions by developed member countries to the Asian Development Fund. In 1976, the Bank approved loans totalling $US776m of which $US236m came from these 'special operations' resources. To date Australia has made commitments of about $US70m to the concessional funds of the Bank. The authorised capital of the bank is $US3,707m and the subscribed capital, from which the Bank derives the funds for its 'ordinary operations', to date amounts to about $US3,688m. Australia's present subscription of $US256m, of which $US82m is paid-in and the balance callable, is exceeded only by those of the United States, Japan and India. 
In April 1975, the Board of Governors of the Bank adopted a resolution requesting the Bank's Board of Directors to undertake a detailed examination of the resource position of the Bank. The Board of Directors recommended in a report to the Board of Governors that, on the basis of the projected lending program of the Bank for the period 1976-81, the authorized and subscribed capital of the Bank should be increased by 135 per cent before the end of 1977. Australia voted in favour of a resolution adopted by the Board of Governors in October 1976 authorising the Bank to accept from its member countries the increased subscriptions proposed in the directors' report. Members, including Australia, are entitled, but not obligated, to subscribe to this authorised increase. 
The approved proposal provides that the authorised capital stock of the Bank be increased by US$5,004m, of which 10 per cent is to be paid in while the balance is to remain on call as backing for the Bank's borrowings in the world capital markets. Of the paid-in portion, 40 per cent is payable in convertible currency and 60 per cent in the currency of the member country concerned. The attached statement, which I ask leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard,  sets out the number of shares to which each member is entitled to subscribe under the capital increase and shows the split up between paid-in and callable shares. 
It is becoming commonplace now to listen to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  raising these matters of public importance.  His  speeches are commonplace because they always follow the same pattern. They are long on adjectives and short on argument. I think that the honourable member must have a dictionary of adjectives in front of him when he prepares his speeches. They are not only short on argument but also short on understanding of the economy of the country. I wish to put into context the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at Mount Gambier when he commented upon the national accounts. Then I want to put into context what the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has said about those national accounts. The Prime Minister pointed out that in 1976 his Government, which had recently come to office, imposed the most rigorous restraint on government spending, reduced the hallowed deficit created by the Hayden Budget, provided incentives to industry so that it could expand and provide job opportunities, moved to limit excessive growth in money supply, and argued strongly for wage restraint which is acknowledged as being fundamental to the success of our program to restrain inflation. We maintained the exchange rate until November when, by force of circumstance, it was necessary to devalue. We maintained that exchange rate during a period when we were able to focus our policy effectively on other arms of economic action. When we came into office after going to the people in November 197S we said that it would take 3 years to complete the recovery, that it could not be achieved overnight. If honourable members opposite are honest with themselves I think they will appreciate that the recession into which they had taken Australia could not be removed overnight. 
The Prime Minister went on to point out that, notwithstanding those difficulties that we faced, the economic hurdles that we had to jump, 1976 has been a year of considerable progress. The most important indicators, the national accounts which were released, do in fact show that considerable progress has been made over the year. I expect that even the honourable member for Adelaide will appreciate that a Government's success or failure should not be judged on what happened in one quarter alone. If he takes time out to read and understand the indicators for the whole year he will appreciate that, as the Prime Minister said, for the first time in 3 years growth is back to normal and inflation is well down on the 16 per cent rates to which we had become accustomed under the Labor Government. The Prime Minister went on to point out that for the first time in 3 years growth in real output has matched the average rates of the 1960s. He referred to the fact that real output was provisionally estimated to have grown by 4.6 per cent in 1976 and that in the case of non-farm product growth was at the rate of 5.2 per cent. That was the context in which the Prime Minister made his comment that growth was back to normal. For the first time in 3 years growth has matched the average rates of the 1960s. 
Let me refer to some statistics which are calculated on an annual basis and which justify that assertion. In the December quarter of 1974 real gross non-farm product increased by 0.1 per cent; in the December quarter of 1975 it increased by 0.6 per cent; and in the December quarter of 1976 it increased by 5.2 per cent. A comparison of the first half of 1976 with the first half of the previous year shows an increase of 2.9 per cent, and there was a 3 per cent increase in the second half of the year. Both of those figures are equivalent to an annual growth rate of approximately 6 per cent. As the Prime Minister pointed out at question time this morning, the more accurate indicators of the underlying rate of inflation are the implicit price deflators. 
An examination of the major gross national expenditure components reveals an increase of 4.5 per cent for the December quarter 1975 and 1.4 per cent for the December quarter of 1976. So the gross national expenditure component was reduced by 10.7 per cent when one compares the December quarter of 1976 with the December quarter of 1975. Again the gross nonfarm product increased by 4.2 per cent in the December quarter of 1 975 and by 1 .7 per cent in the December quarter of 1976. A comparison of the 1976 figure with that of 1975 indicates a 10.4 per cent difference. The gross domestic product increased by 4.5 per cent in the December quarter of 1975 and by 1.9 per cent in the December quarter of 1976. Again a comparison reveals a 10 per cent difference. As the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have rightly pointed out, when the Medibank factor is excluded, it can be observed that there is an underlying annual rate of inflation of some 10.8 per cent. This is a clear indication that over the year the Government's policies have been working. 
There are three fundamental matters that we can observe in this debate, having noted that 1976 was in fact a year of considerable progress when we take into account the difficulties and the hurdles with which we were faced. Firstly, the Government has always said that economic recovery will be a long haul; and so it will be. There is no complacency on our part because, in contrast to the honourable member for Adelaide and those who sit behind him, we appreciate the difficulty of the task. We appreciate that it is not easy. All our efforts in the forthcoming Budget will be turned towards maintaining the course that we have adopted, to restraining government expenditure, to promoting the private sector, and to seeking to find the recovery in the private sector. 
The second fundamental point arising out of this debate and the matters to which I have referred briefly is that the Prime Minister's statement is in fact correct. Nothing that has been said by the honourable member for Adelaide showed that it is wrong. When one compares our experience with the experience which Australia had under the former Labor Administration- a period of no growth- one wonders how on earth the Opposition can argue in this House in favour of the Hayden Budget. Although he mentions the Hayden Budget, I note, as I have noted before, that the honourable member for Adelaide who is the shadow Treasurer never mentions the Budgets that preceded the Hayden Budget-the 1973 Cairns Budget and the 1974 Cairns Budget. No doubt the reasons why those Budgets are never mentioned is the legacy that they have left Australia. 
The third fundamental fact is the downturn in recovery from mid- 1974 onwards under the former Labor Administration. Apart from inheriting from Labor a position of no growth, we inherited also the very high inflation rates of 15 per cent to 16 per cent. So there you have it. The Treasurer has observed in the statement which he put down accompanying the national accounts that the aggregates for the December quarter taken together underline the likelihood that real growth in the non-farm sector of the economy will exceed the 4 per cent rate foreshadowed at the time of the Budget. Honourable members opposite should compare that with the no growth situation which we inherited and they should compare the high inflation rates of the order of 15 per cent to 16 per cent which we inherited with the underlying rates to which I have referred. 
We know how statistics can be used, misused and abused. No doubt in debates of this kind I could cite statistics justifying my argument and honourable members opposite could do the same thing. But, of course, in the end the arbiters of those arguments are the people. The other arbiter of the statistics is industry itself. 
I repeat what was referred to by the Prime Minister at question time this morning- the comments which have been made by various industry groups or other persons operating in the field. The Victorian Chamber of Commerce has reported that signs of optimism have returned in most manufacturing industry. It is significant that manufacturing industry is referred to in that statement because that has been recognised as one of the weak spots in the Australian economy. John P. Young and Associates has said that business in New South Wales is slowly emerging from economic slump and is on the move again. We would certainly hope that it is because we know the strength of the economy in New South Wales and what it can be if it recovers and gets under way again. The Australian Industries Development Association has indicated that decline appears to have halted and economic recovery is getting under way. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd survey of business indicators reported that after 2 years of near stagnation the economy is now experiencing mild expansion. The survey by Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the Bank of New South Wales indicates stronger expectations by business for the next 6 months. 
We talk of business confidence being a necessary ingredient of economic recovery and all those observations by those industry groups indicate that business is confident. Industry can have confidence only if it knows that the Government is trying by its economic policies to bring about economic recovery, and not only trying but also providing industry with the instruments to achieve that recovery. If the honourable member for Adelaide seeks to quote one editorial let me quote one back to him- that of the  Sydney Morning Herald  of Monday 21 March. Whilst the  Herald  quite rightly points out that a balanced interpretation of the national accounts suggests that they afford little ground for complacency it goes on to state: 
The Government probably does have a point that there has been insufficient public recognition of the genuine gains which were recorded during 1976. 
The editorial goes on to state that encouraging signs in the figures are these: 
Private investment in plant and equipment recovered strongly in the December quarter to yield real growth of 1 8.4 per cent for the year. The trend for business profits to recover their normal share of national income continued during last quarter 
The Treasurer in his statement pointed out that company profits were some 33 per cent higher in the December quarter of 1976 than they had been a year earlier, confirming the series of healthy company results that had recently been reported by company chairmen. These debates led by the honourable member for Adelaide are becoming commonplace.  His  arguments are commonplace. They add nothing of value to the economic debate within Australia at present. Certainly the arguments put forward by the honourable gentleman show in no way that the Government has misled the people about the economy. 
in reply- Quite a number of honourable members on both sides of this House have spoken in this debate and I think that that in itself is indicative of the degree of interest which this Parliament has in the overall question of overseas aid. It speaks well of the efforts of the Parliament that honourable members from both sides so readily support this Bill which we are debating. As has been pointed out, the additional subscription to the Asian Development Bank which this Bill authorises is an important adjunct to Australia's overseas aid program. A number of points have been raised by a multitude of speakers but I will not endeavour to cover all of them. However, I will deal with some of the matters of particular substance. If in dealing with those I do not mention some of the other specific matters raised by honourable members then it is not because they are not of importance but simply in order to close the debate and I would invite honourable members who have participated in this debate and who wish to take up with me or the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  any of the matters mentioned in their speeches not to hesitate to do so. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  spoke rather disparagingly of the present Government's target and effort in the field of overseas aid generally. Other speakers from both sides of the House complimented the Government on its efforts in the field of overseas aid while suggesting ways in which that aid can be more effectively provided or spent in the recipient countries. Therefore, simply by way of general observation, I make some comment on what has been said. It is correct that the proportion of gross domestic product which Australia's overseas aid represents this year has declined from 0.55 per cent to 0.49 per cent. However, I point out that the amount of aid, as a proportion of gross domestic product, has varied from year to year over recent years. Although the Government regrets this decline nevertheless it must be viewed in the context of Australia's current economic position. Our first priority must be to make our own economy healthy. This, in turn, will obviously improve our capacity to help others. What we do on the domestic front will be of direct benefit in the future to the developing countries to which we provide aid. 
The Government is deeply concerned about the problems of the less developed countries and the huge difference between the incomes of those countries and those of the developed world. Australia has matched its expressions of concern with concrete measures designed to improve the position of less developed countries. International comparisons of aid performance, as pointed out by a number of speakers, indicate that Australia continues to rank high among donors on the basis of both the terms on which aid is provided and the size of official development assistance as a proportion of gross domestic product. Virtually all of Australia's aid is given in grant form, and most of it is untied. I know from what has been said by previous speakers that all honourable members welcome this policy approach by the Government. The Government will ensure that Australia continues to shoulder its fair share in the provision of assistance to less developed countries. By way of example- these examples have been given before but are worth repeating- Australia has undertaken to provide Papua New Guinea with at least $180m per annum over the next 5 years, largely in the form of budget support. Australia has pledged at least $86m to Indonesia and $60m to the South Pacific over 3 years. Not all of our aid is given bilaterally, of course. In addition to the proposal before the House concerning the Asian Development Bank, the Government has recently pledged $30.7m over 3 years as Australia's share of the Asian Development Fund replenishment. We have also decided to support a fifth replenishment target of $US7 billion to SUS7.5 billion for traditional donors for the International Development Association, and to maintain our existing share of 2.04 per cent of that target. This involves a commitment of $A 133.7m at current exchange rates. All of this verifies the concern which 
Australia feels to bear its share of the provision of international aid to underdeveloped countries. 
The honourable member for Adelaide raised some technical questions concerning the effect of overseas aid on the Budget deficit, whether it adds to domestic demand and whether it has inflationary tendencies. I refer briefly to those aspects without seeking to go into them in great detail. It is misleading to suggest that overseas aid expenditure should not be subject to constraints within the Budget context on the argument that it does not add to the domestic Budget deficit and has no effect on domestic liquidity. The provision of foreign aid involves the use of real resources by Australia for the benefit of other countries and this involves a reduction in the resources that would otherwise be available to Austraiian citizens. The process by which those resources are provided is complex. However, as they involve a reduction in resources available to Australian citizens, the Government must regard proposals for overseas aid expenditure in a similar light to proposals for other government expenditure. In fact, a large proportion of overseas aid results in demands on Australian resources. In 1975-76, for instance, approximately 50 per cent of total overseas aid of $347m involved direct procurement by the Australian Government of goods and services. This was reflected in the domestic deficit. Most of the remaining 50 per cent represented Australian Budget aid to Papua New Guinea. In 1975-76 it was $148m, a significant proportion of which would have been expended by Papua New Guinea in the purchase of goods and services from Australia. In total, probably 75 per cent of 1975- 76 overseas aid was thus directly reflected in demands on Australian resources. For 1976- 77, the proportion would probably be similar. 
The honourable member for Adelaide also sought to make some point about possible underexpenditure of the overseas aid program this year. If there is under-expenditure this year, it will largely reflect the inability of the Aid Bureau to spend the allocation rather than any deliberate decision to achieve savings by cutting that program. As all honourable members know, in the overall budgetary position of all departments for the whole of a financial year, for a variety of legitimate reasons, expenditure may not reach the actual appropriation. Mention was made by a number of speakers of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development Common Fund negotiations and Australia's position. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les 
Johnson) went so far as to suggest that the position adopted by Australia showed that it was indifferent to the proposals put forward by developing countries. This is simply not true. Australia has undertaken to discuss the Common Fund proposal in UNCTAD without commitment. It is understandable that with developing proposals, in the sense that negotiations are continuing and proposals are being worked out, and differing proposals, with respect to the Common Fund, Australia would seek not to commit itself at this stage but to participate in debates and discussions before making a final announcement on its position. 
There have been recent statements by  President  Carter and others on these discussions and the negotiations about a Common Fund. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has recently been in the United States of America and I have no doubt that he has been briefed on the position of that country at the present time. So it is not correct to say that Australia is indifferent to what is happening in this area. It is of importance to us because of the proposals to achieve a stabilisation of commodity markets and in the interests of developing countries themselves. A number of speakers mentioned the percentage of Australia's participation in procurement from the funds lent and provided by the Asian Development Bank. They referred to the Japanese percentage of 40 per cent, the United States percentage of 8 per cent and Australia's percentage of 2 per cent. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  particularly raised this point and sought an assurance that administrative or non-commercial factors did not lie behind this differential in percentage. I assure the honourable member that contracts awarded under bank loans are on the basis of international competitive bidding and open tendering and are in no way related to non-commercial factors. That, nevertheless, points out the room which Australian industrial and professional services have to participate in the procurements which flow from the Bank's loans. No doubt there is a considerable area of room for improvement in the participation of Australian services and industry. 
The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  made the point that perhaps the Government could help Australian industry and the professions which provide technical and other services to be more aware of the opportunities available in the member countries supported by the Bank. I am sure that the Government would be interested in giving that kind of help wherever it may be needed by Australian industry and services. 
The honourable member for Perth also sought an assurance regarding an on-going evaluation of projects which are funded by the Bank. The Bank supervises the implementation of projects and reimburses borrowers only for expenses actually incurred on projects. The Bank has also started a program of evaluating projects after implementation in order to determine to what extent the objects of the projects have been achieved. I think the honourable member for Penh will be satisfied to know that the Bank is active in that way. 
As I say, I have not sought in this reply to cover all of the matters raised by each honourable member who has spoken but simply to pick out particular aspects which I thought, when listening to the debate, deserved immediate comment. I thank all honourable members who have participated in the debate for their contribution because, as I said at the outset, I am sure it reflects the overall interest of this House and of the Government in Australia's overseas aid program. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
For the information of honourable members I present a corrigendum to the statement of the payment made in 1975-76 pursuant to section 8 of the Independent Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act 1969, tabled in the House of Representatives on 16 February 1977. Copies have been distributed to honourable members. 
I have seen the report by Professor Hollows. Like my colleague the Minister for Health I am very keen to see his national trachoma campaign continue and extend throughout Australia. Indeed, it started in Central Australia and has now moved into Western Australia and Queensland and, I believe, into 
New South Wales as well. It is correct, as Professor Hollows has pointed out and as has been recognised before, that basic elements of hygiene and living conditions are a pre-condition of success in eradication of eye disease and other diseases which are affecting Aboriginals. Simple things like running water, as the honourable gentleman has mentioned, are fundamental. As he also pointed out, the standard of housing is directly relevant to health conditions of that kind. As the honourable gentleman will recall, the Government was concerned to see that the Commonwealth housing program provided houses to Aboriginals. 
Regrettably, under the former Administration there were too many examples of unfinished houses- houses without roofs or without wallswhich of course did not benefit anybody and were a waste of the Commonwealth's money. Since the reviews which we undertook we are now satisfied that the money is being effectively spent and we are in the end really getting more houses for the amount of money previously provided. The honourable gentleman also ought to know that I am not in a position at this time to give the guarantee for which he asks in relation to next year's Budget. However, I can assure him and the House that the Government is concerned to maintain the momentum of our housing program. Adequate funds certainly will be provided to ensure that result. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the meeting of the Australian Education Council at Hobart, Tasmania, in February of this year. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
For a student in the final two years of secondary schooling, the Special Supplementary Allowance payable under the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme is identical in its provisions to the Secondary Allowance. Both allowances are payable to parents with limited income and are subject to the same means test. Payment is  therefore  made under only one of the two schemes. 
Benefits under the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme are not affected by payment of Handicapped Child 's Allowance. This allowance, administered by the Department of Social Security, is payable in respect of a severely handicapped child under the age of 16 years who is being cared for in a private home. Such a child may be entitled to an allowance under the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme as well as the Handicapped Child's Allowance if he is either undertaking an approved course of correspondence studies at home, or living with a relative to attend daily an institution for the handicapped because his family home is too far from the institution. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Life Insurance Amendment Bill 1977, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The honourable members who have participated in this debate have raised a number of matters concerning the 2 Bills that we are dealing with cognately. I will endeavour to deal with each of those matters or at least the substantive matters that have been raised by individual honourable members. Some have been raised by more than one honourable member. Hence I will deal with those matters collectively. 
I shall take first the speech by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who spoke of a proposal of which notice has been given by the Opposition for the establishment of a committee to examine the insurance industry. I point out to the honourable member that the industry is currently being examined in detail by the Australian Law Reform Commission following a reference by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  Furthermore, the Government is consulting with insurance consultative committees and the question of general revision of the Life Insurance Act is being examined by the Government, as was indicated by the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in introducing these Bills. So I think it can be seen from that that the Government is active in the field of revision of the law dealing with the insurance industry. Whilst those inquiries and that act of revision are going on within the Government and outside the Government there would not appear to be any need to take on an examination by a committee of the kind proposed by the Opposition. 
The honourable member for Adelaide also spoke of some concern about the granting of regulation-making power under this legislation. The Government does not blithely go into the authorising of actions by regulation. It appreciates that government by regulation can be overdone. The honourable member has quite properly referred to the vigilance of the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee. It serves a very useful purpose in seeing that no government- neither this Government nor any other one- is granted too much regulationmaking power. Certainly the Life Insurance Amendment Bill will enable a number of changes on detailed matters by regulation, such as monetary limits governing payments under policies. This will allow the legislation to be kept up to date on those detailed matters and ensure that the legislation is not the cause of hardship because of a delay in the payment of policy proceeds. If the matter is looked at fairly by honourable gentlemen I think it will be seen that there is to be no excessive use of the regulation-making power. 
The honourable member for Adelaide also asked why the Insurance Commissioner has been given authority to take other employment. As the proposed amendment provides, if that employment is to be taken it has to be taken with the permission of the Treasurer. The amendments in this respect are in line with current practice in relation to statutory office holders. So there is nothing unusual or sinister in what is proposed. Another matter that was referred to by the honourable gentleman, particularly in regard to the Life Insurance Amendment Bill, concerned investments by life offices. I shall comment briefly on that. As has been pointed out by other honourable members, particularly those on the Government side, life offices are amongst the largest investors in Australia, particularly on the stock exchanges. The purpose of the amendment is to avoid investment being unduly inhibited where a company in which a life office is investing has only a small or remote interest in another life office. Under the existing provisions of section 39 sub-section (2), even a miniscule interest of a life office in another life office is prevented. This has been a constant source of difficulty for life offices in carrying out their proper investment role. I am sure the honourable gentleman will appreciate this point and the fact that life offices are such substantial investors in the stock exchanges of Australia. The amendment specifies what are considered to be reasonable limits which are considered to be in the interests of policy holders. So there is nothing unreasonable in the proposal which is put forward. 
The honourable gentleman, as did also the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  referred to clause 32 of the Insurance Amendment Bill dealing with section 113 of the Act. That amendment is proposed because the present section has been found to be not workable. Indeed, it has not yet been proclaimed for that reason. The variations that have been made will benefit Australians who cannot obtain satisfactory insurance cover in Australia. It does not prevent, as would have been the case under the application of the present section, Australians from obtaining insurance overseas, but it does protect those overseas insurers who have obtained authorisation to operate within Australia. The honourable member for Cook particularly spoke of the British insurance industry. Lloyds, which of course is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, re-insurers in the world, is authorised to take insurance in Australia from 
Australians. The other provisions of the amendment deal simply with the obtaining of statistical and other information and to see that there is no abuse of the exemptions provided for. It is purely for information gathering and ought not to be a source of inhibition of those Australians who wish to obtain insurance with overseas insurers. 
Mention was made of the decision to remove from the Insurance Act the present provisions dealing with national interest tests for the establishment of new insurance companies. Very briefly, it has become quite clear that the life and general sectors of the industry are already subject to very close supervision under the insurance legislation. Proposals for overseas investment in the industry in Australia are subject to examination under the Government's foreign investment policy. Very clear guidelines are laid down there with respect to investment in the insurance industry. The industry is also subject to trade practices legislation. So within the existing framework of Government policy and legislation it is clear that there is no need to include in insurance legislation itself this national interest test. Within the existing policy and legislation it is felt that criteria relating to financial soundness can be met and that market forces should be allowed to determine the structure of the industry rather than any artificial structure imposed by government. 
A number of honourable members mentioned the transfer of jurisdiction from the Insurance Tribunal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Under clause 24, particularly sub-clause (U), non-presidential members hearing an insurance appeal are required to have expertise in the insurance industry. So the Government is aware of the need for specialist members to sit on insurance appeals. 
A number of honourable members, including the honourable member for Adelaide, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Cook referred to the minimum valuation basis and changes that will be provided by regulations pursuant to clause 36 of the Life Insurance Amendment Bill, particularly relating to interest rates, mortality tables and the expense allowance for the selling of policies. The purpose of this is to allow these tables and hence the minimum valuation basis to be kept up to date rapidly as circumstances change. That necessarily will require close consultation with the Life Insurance Commissioner, the Australian Government Actuary and industry representatives. So, while indices provide a useful guide in assessing whether the basis is up to date, it is necessary in view of the long-term nature of life insurance that liabilities are valued conservatively, thus ensuring stability of the industry. It is stressed that regulations to change the basis will not be brought forward until the matter has been fully discussed with representatives of the industry. That should provide both the industry and policy holders with a clear understanding of the concern of the Government to safeguard their interests. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  mentioned a number of matters. I will deal very briefly with two of them. He referred to clause 6, the proposed new section 16a, dealing with a company carrying on another form of business. I point out to the honourable gentleman that if the Life Insurance Commissioner refuses permission to carry on some other form of business then the company has a right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Furthermore the honourable gentleman in referring generally to both Bills asked why there is a suspension of certain life insurance investments when there is no similar investment supervision for general insurance. Might I shortly say to him that the types of investment undertaken by life insurers differ greatly from those undertaken by general insurers. Experience has shown that certain investments by life insurers need to be supervised in the manner which is proposed and there is not the same requirement for general insurance. 
In closing my comments on the contributions to the second reading debate might I say that it was with a great deal of irony that I heard the honourable member for Adelaide speak of the interest of the Australian Labor Party in the insurance industry.  His  memory must be short, but I am sure that the industry's is not, because as was pointed out by honourable members on the Government side- the honourable member for Lilley and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)-  great damage was done to the insurance industry by the former Labor Government during such a short period in office. I would just ask the insurance industry to beware of the honeyed words of the honourable member for Adelaide. They are no better than the doctrinaire approach taken by Labor Treasurers under the last Government. I noticed with great interest that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in speaking in this debate did not retract one iota from the things which he and other Labor Treasurers did. It is a matter that ought to be of great concern to the insurance industry itself to hear these words but then to reflect on the experience it had under the former Administration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Proposed new clause 34A. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "34a. Section 124 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section ( 1 ) the following sub-section: "( 1a) In proceedings in any court, a certificate under the hand of the Commissioner that a requirement of this Act specified in the certificate- 
had or had not been complied with at a date or within a period specified in the certificate; or 
has been complied with upon a date specified in the certificate, but not before that date, is  prima facie  evidence of the matters specified in the certificate" '. 
The purpose of this amendment is to overcome a substantial weakness in the Insurance Act 1973 which has become apparent since the Bill was introduced. A number of authorised companies have persistently offended against section 44 by not lodging returns required within the period specified, and it is desired to prosecute the worst offenders. However, advice from the Crown Law authorities indicates that in their present form the provisions of the Insurance Act regarding a prosecution for late lodgment of documents are unworkable for all practical purposes and thus do not provide an adequate basis upon which to institute proceedings. It is emphasised that the requirement that companies make detailed returns and statements at specified intervals is fundamental to the effective administration of the legislation. Thus, the amendment will enable the Commissioner to prosecute in appropriate cases for late lodgment of returns. It has been drafted along the lines of section 12 (4) of the Companies Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory and will facilitate the Commissioner's task of proving the non-lodgment of documents to the satisfaction of the court. 
In dealing specifically with the matter raised by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  concerning section 1 13, it ought to be pointed out that the original intention of the section was to forestall the establishment of unauthorised overseas insurers through agents in Australia and thereby to protect those who are conducting authorised business in Australia and to protect Australian insurance companies. As the clause was drawn, it would have defeated the intention of the legislation. Brokers and others are not restricted in placing business directly with unauthorised insurers, providing they act on their own behalf or for others in Australia and not as agents of these insurers. But, of course, if an Australian resident places business with an unauthorised overseas company he must make his own judgment as to the security of the insurance which he places. What the Government is doing by means of the amendment is to bring into operation the true intention of the legislation. It is seeing also that information is provided so that it knows the extent of that business overseas. The exemption which is provided for by the proposed amendment to section 1 13 is necessary to enable the section to be brought into operation without undue disruption to current arrangements in relation to placing business overseas, whilst still protecting the Act from evasion by unauthorised insurers overseas. 
Against that background I do not think it can lie in anybody's mouth to accuse the Government of setting up the amended section 1 13 so as to manipulate the insurance industry in Australia in favour of overseas insurers. In fact, if the honourable gentleman has proper regard for the foreign investment guidelines which must be applied in relation to the legislation, it will be seen that the Government is seriously concerned about preserving the interests of Australian insurers while at the same time allowing Australians proper access to overseas insurers. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave-adopted. 

That the Bill be now read a third time. 
In moving that the Bill be now read a third time might I briefly refer to a matter raised by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  concerning the nature of decisions upon which alterations will be made in interest rates under the Fourth Schedule and the life tables. Might I say that I am not in a position now to say to the honourable member just what rates will be applied, what new rates will be applied or what particular life tables will be adopted. It is obviously impossible for me here at the table now to say what might be done in the future in order, as I pointed out during the second reading debate, to update the tables and the rates provided for in the Fourth Schedule. The very purpose of the amendment which will enable this to be done by regulation is to allow the speedy updating as there are changes, for example, in mortality rates and interest rates. 
I think the honourable gentleman would appreciate that I am not in a position to give such information. I am not able to do so for very good reason. As I have said earlier, any changes would, of course, be made only after the closest consultation with the industry and the Life Insurance Commissioner. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this BUI I would Uke to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I listened with some interest but certainly not with any acceptance to what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  had to say in endeavouring to support his matter of urgency concerning the  teaching  of migrant languages in schools. It was a mixture of comments upon not only the subject matter of the debate but also migration generally. In it he sought to attribute to the present Government a number of base motives and actions with regard to migrants generally and the teaching of migrant languages in particular. 
My colleague in the other place, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  tabled on  8  December  1976  the report of the Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools for the very purpose of allowing public study and comment upon the report and to obtain public reaction to the recommendations within it. That in itself is a proper thing to do in respect of all reports of this kind that are sought by any government. The Government's action was far from any action of secrecy, suppression or delay. It was quite to the contrary. It is a responsible thing on the part of any government to consider reports such as this along with other matters dealing with the same subject matter. I refer the House to some of those matters. I refer the House to the Fitzgerald report on poverty and education; to the fact that the Education Research and Development Committee- the ERDCestablished a study group to examine the research requirements of multi-cultural education; to the fact that the Curriculum Development Commission has set up a study group to examine the curriculum development of multicultural education; and to the fact that the ERDC, which I have already mentioned, has established a separate study group to discuss possible research initiatives by the ERDC in foreign languages. 
Related reports which also are being considered by the Government are the first report of the Committee on Foreign Languages of the Australian Academy of the Humanities and the report of the working party on languages and linguistics to the Universities Commission in May  1975.  Any responsible government, any responsible Minister, would want to study the question of the teaching of migrant languages in the context of all those related reports and matters and not simply take one report in isolation or act upon one report in isolation. The present Minister is undertaking a comprehensive analysis of all those interrelated reports across his own portfolio. I am advised that within a few months- we cannot be more specific than that because of the magnitude of the task to be undertakena consolidated report will be possible. On the basis of that I can assure the House that the Government will give serious consideration to the implementation of what is necessary in this area of the teaching of migrant languages in schools. 
No matter what the honourable gentleman seeks to say about the federalism policies of this Government, the undoubted fact- it is even a fact from which the honourable gentleman cannot run away- is that the teaching in the States is done through the State education systems and in the Territories through the Commonwealth education system. So whatever the Commonwealth might seek to do must be done in co-operation and consultation with the State education authorities. But more than that, what has to be done has to be done through the teacher training colleges which operate within each of the States. It may well be, from what the honourable gentleman has said, that he would want to discard the responsibilities of the States in this field and have them all taken over by the Commonwealth. If that is his intention and if that is to be the policy of the Australian Labor Party, let him come out plainly and in the open and say so. If it is not to be that, it can only be the alternative, which is to operate through the State education systems and the State teacher training colleges. 
The honourable gentleman attempted to challenge the acceptance by the Government and the  present Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  of the Commonwealth's responsibilities with regard to migrants. He made the paltry statement- that is what it wasthat the present view of the Government is that its responsibilities to migrants end at the aprons of the Tullamarine airport and of other airports in Australia. I feel sure that the honourable gentleman has read the Government's published immigration and ethnic affairs policy. I am sure he knows that it is squarely based upon the acceptance of Australia as a multi-cultural society with all that that implies with respect to languages and cultures, the promotion of the teaching of languages of migrants, the acceptance of communication through their languages and the acceptance of the enrichment that can come to this country from the acceptance and recognition of their cultures. I am sure that he has also read what the Government says in its policy statements about migrant education. I am sure that he has read, in the objectives of the policy, that the Liberal and National Country Parties recognise the special needs of migrant peoples in this country. That means what it says- when they are in this country. 
It is of no use the honourable gentleman playing around with superficial arguments and setting up his own conundrums like: 'When is a migrant not a migrant?' This Government operates on much more effective attitudes than playing with silly conundrums like that. Having regard to the fact that the honourable gentleman so deliberately sought to challenge the policies and views of the present Government, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the published policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties on immigration and ethnic affairs dated August 1975. 
I wish to reply briefly to the matters raised in this debate. There is no need for me to deal with them at length because the matters raised by the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  and other members of the Opposition were raised also in the other place. They were effectively dealt with by the 
Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  Might I just point out in this House the attitude of the Opposition to the proposals in this Bill to create the new Tertiary Education Commission and separate councils for the different sectors. In the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  on behalf of the Opposition, said: ... the Opposition will not oppose the concept of including the technical sector in this new Tertiary Education Commission because we feel that there have been sufficient safeguards written into the legislation to ensure that the technical sector is not disadvantaged. 
So there is no need to elaborate greatly on the debate itself. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and committed  pro forma;  progress reported. 
The Government does not accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  A similar amendment was moved in the other place and was rejected there by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has now sought to put his argument on the basis that what the Government proposes in clause 9 of the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1977 is in fact different from what is provided in the present Technical and Further Education Commission Act. I invite the honourable gentleman to have a good look at section 8 of the present Act to see how sub-section ( 1 ) of that section has a direct relationship to the provision contained in subclause (2) of clause 9 in this Bill. The effect in both cases is that it is mandatory for the Government to table reports relating to financial arrangements and also those reports which come from the councils to the Commission. In additionthis is really what the honourable gentleman refers to- there is the provision in subclause ( 1 ) of clause 9 which says: 
The Commission shall furnish to the Minister such reports relating to the performance of its functions as the Minister requires and may furnish such other reports as the Commission thinks fit. 
That is, reports on matters other than those financial arrangements and reports of the councils to the Commission. One can well imagine- I think the honourable gentleman would realise this- that in the field of operation of such commissions there may from time to time, and not necessarily on a regular annual basis, be other reports which the Commission itself may want to forward to the Minister or which the Minister may require. They may be triennial or quinquennial reports or they may be provided at some other periodic intervals. There was not a requirement for the presentation of annual reports under the former Labor Administration, but there was the requirement for furnishing reports with regard to financial arrangements. The present Government has followed that approach. So there really is no need for the Government to accept the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 36- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 37 (Advice by Councils). 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Education Council discussed the matter and decided to establish a joint Federal/State Working Party of representatives of education and of labour and employment departments to act as a steering group to develop proposals on career guidance in schools and to improve services available to young people making the transition from school to work. The Council of Labour Ministers has agreed to co-operate, and arrangements are being made to finalise the membership of the Working Party as soon as possible. 
I thank honourable gentlemen who have participated in this debate. This is a matter of some technical complexity as well as of considerable significance for the business community in Australia, particularly those businesses which are anxious to invest out of real profits and to see that paper profits upon which they are taxed do not take away from them capital reserves and thereby diminish their capacity to invest. The point has been well made on this side of the House that the profits of today are the investments of tomorrow. Those investments will lead to permanent employment which above all else is what is needed in Australia. 
Let me answer briefly some particular points made by speakers so as to clarify aspects of this legislation and remove any doubt about it. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  leading for the Opposition, asked me a number of questions. I shall seek to clarify them now. He referred to the fact that there had been representations in respect of those companies which have substituted accounting periods. It is thought that they may be in some difficulty where the legislation provides for the indexing to be on a June to June basis, which may not always correspond with the accounting period of some companies. It may generally be observed that it is necessary to have a common measure of indexation for all companies, so the matter of judgment becomes whether one should vary the index period to accommodate the different accounting periods or whether there should be a common index period for all companies to which they must accommodate themselves, irrespective of their own accounting periods. As the House knows, the Government has decided that there should be a standard index period applying to all companies. Of course company tax rates are not known before the Budget of each year is brought down. In saying that it should not be thought that I am in any way anticipating what might happen in this year's Budget. On the grounds of equity and for the sake of simplicity it is the Government's view that the same index should be applied to the stocks held by all firms at the beginning of their accounting period. 
Another point that the honourable gentleman made was with respect to the goods component of the consumer price index, which is to be the index that is to be applied for stock valuation adjustment. It was suggested that that component might not be the correct index to use. The Government was concerned to use an index that was generally accepted as an indicator of inflation. The CPI is used for personal tax indexation and is generally seen as a proper index for measuring inflation. Of course, there are even arguments against the appropriateness of all the elements of the consumer price index for that purpose. But as the stock valuation adjustment deduction is restricted to goods, it follows that the goods component of the CPI is more appropriate to use than the full CPI itself. It is accepted that the use of this one index will not meet the particular circumstances of different industries. However, in the interests of simplicity and equity, which must be a guiding light in tax matters, the one general index was adopted. 
The honourable member for Adelaide queried the inclusion of livestock within the scheme, particularly as Professor Mathews had recommended their exclusion. The Mathews recommendation was based largely on the fact that natural increase livestock are favoured with a concessional valuation for tax purposes. Let me make 2 points with regard to that. Firstly, not all the livestock of a primary producer are the result of natural increase. Some livestock are purchased at market prices. The other point I would make is that, to the extent that natural increase is brought to account for tax purposes at a low notional cost, the trading stock valuation adjustment deduction will be based on that low value. Therefore the Government considers that livestock in the hands of primary producers should be brought into the trading stock valuation adjustment scheme. 
The honourable gentleman also referred to a situation in which there are fluctuating commodity prices and suggested that falling prices for some commodities can give a windfall gain that is not taken into account in calculating the stock adjustment, which is based on opening stock values for the year. It is recognised that the prices of some goods and commodities can fluctuate. Obviously they will fluctuate either upwards or downwards. Where the price falls during a year it will result in lower closing stock values, which will in turn determine the opening value of stock for the succeeding year. That will be reflected in the deduction available for the next year being reduced. Where prices rise during a year the reverse will apply. Thus over the longer term these swings in prices will be taken into account in the trading stock valuation adjustment scheme. More sophisticated adjustments could have been devised but only at the expense of a far more complex piece of legislation. I am sure that the honourable gentleman would not suggest that we should embark upon that course. 
I turn to the contribution to the debate by the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards).  I thought it was most valuable in pointing out to the House the necessity in today's economic environment of increasing the profit share of business of the gross domestic product. Only if that share is increased can we get investment back into the economy and, through investment, greater economic activity, which in turn will lead in due course to a higher level of employment and a lowering of the present unemployment levels. The honourable member pointed out forcibly what had happened under the previous Labor Administration whereby the profit share was diminished. It is a clear policy objective of this Government to increase the profit share so as to lead to greater investment. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  raised a matter concerning the tax liability of the defence forces retirement benefit and defence forces retirement and death benefit pensions. The amendment that has been introduced is designed again to render taxable these types of pensions, which had been taxable from 1945 until a recent High Court decision. In again rendering these pensions taxable we have very deliberately removed any element of retrospectivity. The point that the honourable member for Macarthur has raised goes not so much to the fact that these pensions, which were previously liable to tax, are again to be taxable as to the fact that there are other aspects of the position of exservicemen receiving Service invalidity pensions that deserve investigation by the Government. The honourable member for Macarthur pointed to the fact that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  is conducting an inquiry into Service pensions generally. Amongst other things, he will be looking at the matters that have been raised by the honourable member for Macarthur. I can assure the honourable member for Macarthur that the government will give serious consideration to the report by the honourable member for Herbert when it is forthcoming. Of course, I cannot make any commitment one way or the other with regard to the particular matter raised concerning Lieutenant Commander Goodfellow who has been successful in the High Court pursuant to an objection against an assessment of a tax return that he lodged.  His  case was upheld. But as I have pointed out, consistent with the way in which these pensions have been taxed since 1945, the Government considers that they should be liable to tax and does not wish to create the anomalies that would otherwise occur if they were allowed to remain non-taxable. 
The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  suggested that the amendment to the averaging provisions concerning primary producers does not go far enough. He was good enough to point out that that might sound strange, coming from a member of the Australian Labor Party. He mentioned that the Industries Assistance Commission had recommended the removal of the $16,000 limit. He failed to mention that the IAC also recommended in the same report the introduction of income equalisation deposits and, of course, he failed to mention that the Government has introduced an income equalisation deposits scheme. The introduction of that scheme was foreshadowed in the last Budget and, as I have indicated, legislation providing for its introduction has since been brought into this Parliament. The scheme has taken a lot of pressure from the $ 16,000 limit because a primary producer can, in effect, average out his own income by investing in income equalisation deposits in good years, receive a deduction for the investment and so reduce his taxable income. The question of the removal of the $16,000 limit is, of course, a matter that is properly considered in a budgetary context. 
I mention briefly the contribution to the debate by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  The particular point that he made was that tax measures need to comprehend the fact that they should provide incentives rather than disincentives for people whilst at the same time they raise for the Government the revenue that is needed to finance its expenditures. I thank honourable members for their contributions to this debate. As foreshadowed, I will be introducing amendments to clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill at the Committee stage to remove any elements of retrospectivity with regard to the safeguard provisions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 4-by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
After section 3 IB of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: '31c.(1)Where- 
a person (in this section referred to as the "purchaser") has, whether before or after the commencement of this section, purchased from another person (in this section referred to as the "vendor") an article (in this sub-section referred to as the "relevant article") that, for the purposes of the application of this Act in relation to the purchaser, was an article of trading stock; 
I move: 
In proposed section 3 lc. ( 1 ) (a) omit 'whether before or after the commencement of this section', substitute 'on or after21 April 1977'. 
There are two further amendments which I shall formally move later. Since the amendments are interrelated I propose, with the concurrence of the Committee, to speak to them together at this time. 
I have 2 amendments which refer to clause 1 8, which reads in part: 
1 ) The amendments made by sections 3, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11 apply to assessments in respect of income of the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1976 and in respect of income of all subsequent years of income. 
The amendment made by section S does not apply in relation to the purchase by a taxpayer of trading stock before the commencement of the year of income of the taxpayer that commenced on 1 July 1976. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), omit '6,'. 
Omit sub-clause (4), substitute the following sub-clause: '(4) The amendment made by section 6 does not apply in relation to a change in ownership or interests that occurred' before 2 1 April 1977.'. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave-adopted. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
The details listed below update, to 6 May 1977. the answer given on 20 May 1976 to parliamentary question No. 412: 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questionIt  is not possible to provide information in respect of payments to individual government schools except in relation to grants made under the Special Projects (Innovations) Program. The Commonwealth Government provides bulk funding to the New South Wales Government for government schools programs to disburse on a needs basis as it sees fit. Payments to non-government schools and payments to government schools under the Innovations Program are set out in the attached tables. 
-The question asked by the honourable gentleman is one which is obviously causing some concern. A number of detailed questions were asked. I do not have the information at hand, but I shall see that it is obtained as quickly as possible and will let the honourable member have a complete answer. 
I am not sure whether it was on the date mentioned by the honourable member that I became aware of the degree of venereal disease in the Northern Territory, in Arnhem Land in particular, but I and my colleague, the Minister for Health, are aware of the incidence of that disease amongst Aboriginals. If I might speak for my colleague here, his officers have had the matter under study in much the same way, but perhaps not to the same extent at this stage, as they have had under study the eye diseases to which the national trachoma campaign is being directed. That campaign, as my colleague has pointed out to this House on a number of occasions, has been extremely successful in the Northern Territory and South Australia. It has moved into Western Australia and is now moving into Queensland. In all the instances where it goes into other States it is with the co-operation and the knowledge of that State's health authorities. I believe that that cooperation is forthcoming in Queensland. Diseases of this kind are ravaging the Aboriginal population of Australia. We, for our part in the Commonwealth, are doing our very best to bring them under notice and examination and to take such action as we can to bring about a lessening of their incidence. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Education Research Act 1970 I present the sixth annual report of the Education Research and Development Committee, 1975-76, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) The information sought by the honourable member in respect of funding of Aboriginal organisations in the past four years is available as follows: financial years 1972-73 and 1973-74- Second Reading speeches in respect of States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bills given in the Senate on 7 March 1973 and 1 1 October 1973 respectively; financial years 1974-75 and 1975-76-for technical reasons, the details requested were not included in the Second Reading speeches in respect of the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bills for these years, but the information was tabled in the Senate and is available in the Parliamentary library. 
The honourable member is also referred to the annual reports of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for additional information. 
The work involved in providing the details sought on individual enterprises funded by the Government is considerable and I do not propose-to direct my Department to undertake this task. I will, however, consider any request from the honourable member for information in respect of specific organisations. 
Aboriginal Non-commercial Enterprises  (Question No. 17) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The information sought by the honourable member in respect of allocations made to Aboriginal organisations in the past four years is available as follows: financial years 1972-73 and 1973-74- second reading speeches in respect of States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bills given in the Senate on 7 March 1973 and 1 1 October 1973 respectively; financial years 1974-75 and 1975-76- for technical reasons, the details requested were not included in the second reading speeches in respect of the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bills for these years, but the information was tabled in the Senate and is available in the Parliamentary library. 
The honourable member is also referred to the annual reports of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for additional information. 
The work involved in providing details of individual projects is considerable and I do not propose to direct my Department to undertake this task. I will, however, consider any request from the honourable member for information in respect of specific organisations. 
Conciliation and Arbitration Regulation No. 146AP  (Question No. 99) 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Information showing the relationship between numbers of school leavers proceeding to universities and colleges of advanced education and numbers of children in the relevant age group in the population, for the year specified by the honourable member, is not available. 
However, the table below sets out the ratios between the total numbers of students enrolled in undergraduate courses at universities and the total population falling in the age range 1 7 to 22 years for each of the years specified in the honourable member's question. Ratios are also shown for colleges of advanced education from 1968. 
Ratio of the numbers of undergraduate students in universities and colleges of advanced education to the total population in the 17-22 age group 
Includes enrolments in teachers colleges which became colleges of advanced education. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Director of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement informed my Department that '. . . the appropriation of royalties falls within the authority of the Department of Mines. However, I can say that in accordance with Queensland 's policy, Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders would be viewed no differently from any other Queenslander regardless of racial ancestry'. 
Department of Transport: Resignations from Melbourne Offices  (Question No. 275) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. 
Elcho Island School did not open immediately at the commencement of this school year because of damage to the school toilets, whose septic systems were flooded by heavy rain just before school was due to open. However, arrangements were made to have urgent repairs made to the toilets and for two transportable toilet/ablution units to be shipped to the school. As a result, the pre-school re-opened on 17 February and the school re-opened on 2 1 February. 
Funds are being provided in the current financial year to upgrade the school by providing a number of new facilities including domestic science and an/craft facilities, an industrial ans unit, library and toilet blocks, at a cost of about Sim. A further $1 10,000 is to be spent on repairs and maintenance to teacher housing and existing school buildings. 
Aboriginal Affairs: Expenditure on Legal Aid (Question No. 378) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Aboriginal Land Fund Commission has advised me that: 
it does differentiate between requests for land for recreational, social and cultural and agricultural purposes but that in most cases where the request is for land for agricultural purposes there is a need for other elements also. 
the size and type of land purchases is governed by 3 criteria: 
where a specific property is requested by an Aboriginal group, its suitability for the group's intentions; 
the availability of the property; and 
funds available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Aboriginal Land Fund Commission has advised that: 
such checks are carried out for all land purchases made by the Commission; 
and (3) agricultural consultants are engaged to report on the potential viability of each property before purchase is considered and, where possible, a local person is engaged. 
Aboriginal Land Fund Commission: Request from Echuca Aboriginal Co-operative (Question No. 655) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Aboriginal Land Fund Commission has advised that the request for land by the Echuca Aboriginal Co-operative is primarily for land for agricultural purposes. The land will also have incidental social and recreational uses of benefit to local Echuca Aboriginals. 
Aboriginal Land Fund Commission: Land for Echuca Aboriginal Co-operative (Question No. 656) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Aboriginal Land Fund Commission has advised me that: 
1 )  Baroona  was the only property considered for the Echuca Aboriginal Co-operative. 
and (3) This is the usual practice. Aboriginal communities choose one significant property and if it is found to be suitable for their purpose, subject to availability, price, funds, etc., the ALFC enters into negotiations with the vendor. 
Particles in the Atmosphere (Question No. 662) 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement concerning Aboriginal employment. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill, the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Amendment Bill, and the States Grants (Universities Assistance) Amendment Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
It is most appropriate for the honourable member for Parramatta to have asked this question as he is  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. He brings to the attention of the House a very notable event, that is, the tenth anniversary of the 1967 referendum which gave to the Commonwealth, through an amendment to the Constitution, the power to make special laws with regard to Aboriginal citizens of Australia and also to treat Aborigines as full citizens by including them in the census. It is as well to remind the House also of another notable aspect of that referendum, that it achieved the highest Yes vote in the history of referendums in Australia- 89 per cent, which is even better than some of the Yes votes that were achieved in the last referendums. 
Having said that, I should like to give to the House an elaborate statement on the achievements and the progress in Aboriginal affairs over the last 10 years, but I shall not do that except to point out that in fact there has been considerable achievement. Too often members of parliament from this House and the other place and members of the public single out apparent failures, difficulties and problems in Aboriginal affairs. But of course it is the silent majority of achievements which ought to be heralded to the public by members of this House and the other place. There have been real achievements in health, education, employment and the establishment of Aboriginal Organisations. I think perhaps the greatest achievement is the fact that today more and more Aborigines- both men and womenare standing up and speaking for their own people, not simply in national forums but in their local communities and areas of activity. They have been chosen by their communities to speak for them with government and within towns and cities. When Aborigines come forward to take positions of leadership and speak for themselves in that way I think that really is the hallmark of great progress. I thank the honourable gentleman for asking this question and thereby drawing the attention of the House to what I think is a most notable event. 
by leave-Honourable members will recall that on 9 November 1976 I tabled the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Role of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. I wish to take the opportunity of publicly expressing my thanks, and the appreciation of the Government, to the members of the Committee of Inquiry, whose recommendations form the basis of the arrangements I am about to announce. Their report is a most significant document. 
The Committee of Inquiry, comprising  Dr L.  R. Hiatt,  Mr Jim  Stanley,  Ms Lois  0 'Donoghue and  Mr Maurice  Luther- the last 3 being Aboriginals- was appointed by the Government to review the work and effectiveness of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee and to recommend changes in the composition, structure and function of the NACC or suggest other forms of Aboriginal body or bodies with the object of ensuring that Aboriginals can play a significant role at the national level in the following matters: Firstly, in setting long term goals and objectives which the Government should pursue and the programs it should adopt; secondly, in setting priorities for expenditure; and thirdly, in evaluating existing programs and formulating new ones. The Government believes that not only do Aboriginals have a significant role in these matters, but that they must also assume increasing responsibility for the success of the programs adopted. Only in this way will inefficiency, waste and disillusionment, which characterised many of the previous programs, be removed. 
When this Government came into office it seemed that the NACC, established in 1973 by the former Labor Administration, had been neither an effective channel of communication between the Commonwealth Government and Aboriginal Australians nor an effective representative forum for their views. The Government therefore initiated immediately the inquiry foreshadowed in its electoral platform. That this concern was justified is clear from the findings of the Committee of Inquiry which concluded that the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee has not functioned as a consultative committee and, to that extent, has not been effective in providing advice to Government on policy and programs in Aboriginal Affairs'. The Committee attributed the absence of effective consultation 'largely to the failure on the part of the previous Government to provide a clear statement of aims, duties and procedures prior to the elections, the disinclination of the elected members to accept a role that was merely consultative, and the state of mutual hostility that prevailed between the NACC and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs from the beginning'. 
The Committee commented on the nature of the resolutions of the NACC which 'were normally transmitted without any concern for priorities, rationalisation or feasibility'. It attributed the cause, in part, to the size and nature of the meetings of the NACC and the absence of consultation with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The Committee noted that the demands of the NACC 'were often immoderate' and assumed that these demands were made 'in a context where those making the proposals shared no responsibility for their administration'. 
The responsibility for the lack of effectiveness of the present NACC, therefore, lay both with Government and the NACC itself. The Government has now examined the report of the Committee of Inquiry and has taken account of comments on it including those provided by the NACC Executive. As a consequence we have decided to establish a group of inter-related Aboriginal bodies very much on the lines recommended by the majority of the Committee of Inquiry. There will be a National Aboriginal Conference composed of 35 members who will meet annually at national level. Members will also meet at least twice each year in their State or Territory as State or Territory branches of the National Aboriginal Conference and will choose their representatives on the 10 member NAC Executive. The role of the NAC will be to provide a forum in which Aboriginal views may be expressed at State and national level and in particular, to express Aboriginal views on the long term goals and objectives which the Government should pursue and the programs it should adopt in Aboriginal affairs, and on the need for new programs in Aboriginal affairs. The NAC will also participate, through its entitlement to choose 5 of the 10 members, in the work of a new body, the Council for Aboriginal Development. 
The Council for Aboriginal Development will be the body from which the Government will seek formal advice. It will be composed of 10 members- 5 chosen by the NAC Executive from members of the Executive and 5 nominated by me as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. All members will be of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander descent. The Government has noted the Committee of Inquiry's remarks about the difficulties which arose from the failure of the previous Government to provide the NACC with a clear statement of aims, duties and procedures. It has, therefore, accepted the recommendation of the Committee that the new Conference should be provided with a charter which publicly sets out the structure and functions of the NAC and sets out the authority which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will have over its activities. The right of the Conference to fill half of the positions on the Council for Aboriginal Development will, as envisaged in the Hiatt report, balance the requirement that the Conference operates within the terms of the ministerial charter. I now seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the charter of the National Aboriginal Conference and a statement which sets out the role and functions of the Council for Aboriginal Development. 
in reply- I thank honourable gentlemen for participating in this debate. There is no need for me to elaborate in answer to the points made by members of the Opposition because they have been effectively demolished from the Government side. But I do wish to say one thing about the contribution by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  He is the  chairman  of the Government back benchers' committee on federalism and as such is well versed in the subject matter being considered, as well as being concerned about the implications of these 2 Bills. He asked whether the Government would give consideration to amending section 12 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act in relation to interstate relativities for tax sharing between the States as well as relativities for tax sharing between local government throughout Australia. I understand his concern about the implications for sharing in the local government field arising from the amendment to be put through tonight in this Bill. On behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  I say that certainly the Government will give consideration to the point that the honourable gentleman has raised. I should be pleased to have further discussions with his committee on that matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I shall make only a few comments, particularly about the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley.  (Mr Hayden).  One must wonder about his assertion after assertion of deception, fiddling and so on. Assertion can never make way from fact. I shall quote a couple of figures from the table showing the 1977-78 tax indexation benefits released by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on 25 May 1977. 1 invite honourable members and the public to look at those tables. More than that, I invite members of the public to look at their pay packets on 1 July. They will see that what the honourable member for Oxley has said is untrue. Members of the public will find that they have more money in their pay packets because of the effect of tax indexation. I shall give a few figures quickly for the record. A taxpayer with a dependent spouse and an annual income of $5,000 will benefit from indexation by a saving of $81.80. He will pay $81.80 less tax. For an annual income of $6,000 the benefit will be $166.22. For an annual income of $7,000 the benefit will be $187.50. For an annual income of $8,000 the benefit will also be $ 1 87.50. The same' benefit will apply to an annual income of $9,000 up to $11,000. 
The facts speak for themselves. On 1 July the pay packets of the taxpayers will speak for themselves. As a direct result of tax indexation taxpayers will receive a direct cash benefit. In that way there will not be any hidden taxation by reason of the operation of inflation in contrast to the situation under the administration of the former Government and particularly under the handling of the economy by the former Labor Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The application of this Community Development Employment Projects Scheme will allow a work test to be applied in communities where it has been very difficult to apply the general unemployment benefit criteria to Aboriginals. This is simply because in many of these places work is not readily available. Aboriginals themselves made considerable representations to me against the continued payment of unemployment benefit to these communities, particularly those which still have a very strong tribal or tradition orientation. The payment of this benefit created a great deal of socially undesirable consequences. So, the scheme which was developed by me and supported by the Government is to inject into those communities funds more or less equivalent to the amount that would otherwise have gone to them by way of unemployment benefit. This will allow the communities themselves to identify work that would be of advantage to them and also allow them to choose those Aboriginals who would do the work. Thereby, those Aboriginals who were available for work and who offered themselves for work would be given it. Those who declined the work would have a work test against which their application for unemployment benefit could be considered. I think that these CDEPs as we call them, will be of tremendous benefit in these remote communities because they will provide work of a kind which the communities themselves want. The socially undesirable aspect of unemployment benefit being paid without regard to the desires of the communities themselves will be removed. 

 - Mr Simon asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education the following question, without notice, on 25 May 1977: 
He will be aware that Parliament has passed legislation providing funds for construction of the engineering school at the Gippsland Institute of Advanced Education and that a decision has been made to defer commencement of the works pending the outcome of the inquiry in Victoria into post-secondary education. I ask: Is the Minister aware of the adverse effects being experienced by the Institute, and in particular by the students, resulting from the delay in construction of the engineering school? Will the Minister advise the precise timetable leading up to the construction commencement date to ensure that the doubts which presently exist are removed? Will he confirm that the sum of $2. 5m scheduled in the relevant Act is in no way in jeopardy pending the decision of the Newman committee and the Commonwealth Tertiary Education Commission? Finally, will the Minister confirm that additional moneys will be available to cover the increased construction costs caused by the delay? 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I share the honourable member's concern about delays in settling this matter and I recognise the need for firm decisions to be taken as soon as possible. 
As soon as material becomes available from the Newman Review of engineering education throughout Victoria the new Commonwealth Tertiary Education Commission (or its interim committee) will present its advice urgently. 
Ethnic Groups in Perth Electoral Division (Question No. 14) 
There has been some unfortunate delay in the preparation of this report. I believe that a copy will be in my hands so that I am in a position to table it tomorrow. 
I am aware of the situation concerning the Murawina pre-school centre. As a matter of fact, I had discussions yesterday with 2 persons directly concerned with it. I was advised then that the owners have given notice to the preschool centre to vacate the premises within the next 2 months. I have assured the people concerned that in any new premises that they are able to obtain the Department of Aboriginal Affairs will support them by way of operating costs and so on, as we presently do. I have before me a proposal for a new building for the preschool centre and a hostel for young Aboriginal girls undergoing education- a very imaginative proposal but one which will cost a considerable amount of money and take some time, about 1 8 months, to complete. Whether the amount of money concerned- over $500,000- will be available is something that I have to determine within the priorities of next year's Budget. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
The amendments are directed to new tax avoidance arrangements that have been devised with the intention of frustrating the limitations on the operation of sub-section  36A  (2) of the income tax law that were agreed to by honourable members when the Bill was debated in this House. They are related to the conditions under which all the taxpayers concerned in the formation, variation or dissolution of a partnership, may elect under sub-section  36A  (2) to value trading stock owned by one or more of the partners at cost or replacement price for taxation purposes, instead of at market value. 
Under an amendment made in clause 6 of the Bill as passed by this house, such an election may be made only where the market value of the trading stock is greater than the cost or replacement price adopted by the former owner or owners in their income tax returns. That amendment, which is necessary to prevent a misuse of the new trading stock adjustment, will also bring to an end a number of tax avoidance arrangements designed to generate tax deductions when trading stock is acquired after its true value has been reduced. 
Since the Bill was introduced in this house, however, other arrangements have been adopted by some tax planners to get around the proposed amendment. In a typical scheme, all the issued shares in one or more private companies holding accumulated profits are acquired, ostensibly for share-trading purposes, by a partnership of which some members are individuals in receipt of high incomes. The accumulated profits are then paid by way of dividend to a separate company, the shares in which are also held, and later sold, by the partnership. Section 36a is invoked so that no taxable profit arises on the sale for full value of the shares in the separate company. The shares in the other private companies are also sold at their true value but, having been stripped of their profits, a tax-deductible loss is created. The end result is that substantial amounts of other income earned by individual members of the partnership are wholly freed from tax. 
The amendments to the Bill made by the Senate on the motion of the Government will preclude an election being made under the section in respect of transfers of interests in trading stock comprising company shares and securities or other choses in action. The amendments will not, however, withdraw any rights to lodge elections under section 36A in relation to transfers of interests in such property if it is established that the transfers took place before 24 May 1977, the day on which the amendments were foreshadowed in the Senate. 
For the information of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  who has just spoken, I point out that the measure now before the chamber is to come into operation on 24 May 1977, that being the date on which the amendment was foreshadowed in the Senate. The consequence of that is that the measures outlined in clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill originally introduced in this chamber will operate as from 21 April 1977, that date being chosen so as to remove altogether any element of retrospectivity. So any of the new schemes which were engineered by the tax planners after the date of the first amendment in this chamber will have only from that date until 24 May in which to become operative. It may well be that there was little opportunity for it to become operative because the transfers of shares could not have taken place within the stipulated time. The iniquity of the tax avoidance schemes which have now been closed off by the Government is that they were not real losses that were being used to offset earned income but manufactured losses- a totally artificial situation. 
I am pleased to see that honourable members opposite are as willing and as anxious as the Government has been to close off this loophole. I take the point made by the honourable gentleman that the Government needs to be always concerned to close off loopholes of this kind, because where high income earners avoid paying tax it necessarily imposes an unfair burden on other genuine taxpayers within the community. The Taxation Office does have under consideration at the present time a review of the Act with respect to tax avoidance schemes and, in due course, will be reporting to the Government. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act 1974 I present the report of the Aboriginal Loans Commission for the year ended June 1 976. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the committee appointed to examine the desirability and feasibility of introducing a system of loans for Australian post-secondary students. With the report I also present a document which I have received separately from  Mr Michael  Gallagher, who is the education research officer of the Australian Union of Students and who was a member of the committee.  His  statement is in the form of a  critique  by the AUS of the committee's proposals and of the terms of reference for the investigation. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Aboriginal Land Fund Act 1974, 1 present the report of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for the year ended June 1976. Due to the limited number of copies presently available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office and the Parliamentary Library. Further copies of the report will be available shortly and a copy will be mailed to each member. 
-The Minister Assisting the Prime 
Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information given in answer to Parliamentary question No. 483 on 3 June and 24 August 1 976  (Hansard,  pages 30 1 4 and 5 19) has been updated and is set out below: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that there has been continuing correspondence at Prime Minister/Premier level on the ownership of land aspects of the Convention between May 1974 and April 1976. 
The Queensland Minister's letter was dated 10 December 1976 and received by me on 13 December 1976. 
1 have not replied to the letter referred to in (2) above. A reply was dealt with in the context of the Prime Minister's reply to the Queensland Premier. 
Correspondence between a Premier and a Prime Minister is normally confidential and it is not for me to break this confidentiality. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Grants to the State for Aboriginal housing in each year since funding commenced by the Australian Government ($000s): 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
1338. 
There were 2808 teachers in the Australian Capital Territory at 30 April 1977, of these 181 were on approved leave, leaving an operative teaching force of 2627 at that date. 
Headmasters do have the right to ask staff members whether they propose to participate in strike action. Some difficulties have existed with this in the past but it is essential that this information is conveyed to parents to enable them to take appropriate action if any problem with supervision at the schools exist in circumstances of industrial unrest. 
Governor-General: Accommodation in Sydney  (Question No. 647) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$128,440,500. Subsequently an additional $25m was allocated to Aboriginal Affairs, Programs and Capital items. 
(2) 
All funds approved are expected to be released by 30 June 1977. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(D- 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
It is not possible to provide information in respect of payments to individual government schools except in relation to grants made under the Special Projects (Innovations) Program. The Commonwealth Government provides bulk funding to the New South Wales Government for government schools programs to disburse on a needs basis as it sees fit. Payments to government schools under the Innovations Program are set out in the attached tables. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (5) I am advised that the research project in question is the solar-ammonia project which is being conducted within the Department of Engineering Physics, Research School of Physical Sciences at the Australian National University. The project has been concerned with studying processes for the mass utilisation of solar energy, using ammonia as a means of chemical storage, with a view to developing a 10 megawatt power generation station. A power station of this size could supply enough electricity to serve a town of 10 000 people. 
The solar-ammonia project has been funded from the be- f inning of 1974 to the present time from the resources of the Research School of Physical Sciences but the project has now reached a stage where the level of funding required exceeds the financial capabilities of the School. It was estimated by the research group, in their submission of May 1976 to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources, that further development of the project to the point where a significant pilot plant could be constructed would require about $2.0m over a period of S years. On the assumption that University funding could continue at the current level, an additional amount of about $1.4m would be needed to reach the required level of funding. 
The future of the solar-ammonia project has been reviewed within the University over the last 18 months as part of an overall review of the research programs of the Research School of Physical Sciences. The review, which involved both internal and external assessors, considered that' the required level of funding was beyond the means of the Research School and the University. It was therefore decided that the School should continue to support the project to the end of 1977. The expectation is that the technological and economic viability of the process will then have been examined to determine the feasibility of proceeding to the first production stage of a 10 MW electrical generating station. 
The University has recognised that there is a place for applied work of this nature in the Research School of Physical Sciences, although the primary role of this and other Research Schools is to undertake fundamental scientific research. Financial constraints are such that work of an applied nature can be supported only during an initial exploratory phase, on the understanding that funding from sources outside the University must be obtained before any extension to the often much more costly development phase can proceed. 
The determination of the Government's policy on energy research is a matter for consideration, in the first instance, by my colleague the Minister for National Resources. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I ) to (6) I draw the honourable member's attention to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 1003. 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff (Question No.  1014) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows actual expenditure at 31 May 1977 by project, and estimated expenditure at 30 June 1977 in respect of each region: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to question No. 1003, weekly  Hansard,  for 2 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 52 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act 1972 I present the annual report on the operation of that Act for the year ended 31 December 1976. 
by leave- In October last year I announced substantial increases across the board for 1977 in allowances for the 10 student assistance schemes administered by the Department of Education. The Government is continuing its policy of providing a comprehensive range of assistance to students to ensure that all are able to achieve their maximum potential and will not be prevented from doing so by a lack of financial support. Under the present Government the numbers of students assisted has grown and a record number is expected to be assisted in 1978 as shown in the following table: 

<graphic href="106131197708185_20_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197708185_20_1.jpg"></graphic>

-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not correct to say that the Department has refused to finance this program. The fact of the matter is that my colleague the 
Minister for Health has received a report prepared by one of his officers after consultation with the Aboriginal Medical Service in Redfern, that my colleague has sent a copy of that report to me and that it is under consideration by both of us at the present time. Some confusion may have been caused by the fact that this is a new request, that is, it is in addition to programs which have been proposed for this financial year. Therefore if it is to be approved it must be supported with funds additional to those already programmed for the Service. 
I take this opportunity to indicate the level of funds that will be provided for this Service this financial year and, as well as that, the total funds expected to be available to it. The Service will receive $260,000 from my Department for operational expenses. In addition, it will receive $100,000 for renovations to premises, making a total of $360,000, against the sum of $302,000 which it received in full last year. In addition, it has available to it refunds from Medibank for medical services provided. They are expected to be of the order of $75,000 this year. Furthermore, for some years the Service has been seeking public donations. I am not sure just what amount it does receive by way of public donations, but I know that it is expected to be of the order of $45,000. 1 believe also that the Freedom from Hunger Campaign has agreed to provide $ 1 12,000 to it over two years and something like $45,000 this year. All told the Service is expected to receive half a million dollars this year, which is a quite tidy sum. 
I might say also that my colleague and I are very conscious of the problem of malnutrition amongst Aboriginal children, particularly those in the inner city suburbs of Sydney. What is being looked at is a planned and controlled nutrition intervention program. I think the House would recognise that before any program of that kind is introduced it needs to be properly considered and assessed by experts from the Department of Health, which in this case will be the technical consultants to my Department. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the activities of the Australian National Commission for UNESCO during 1975-76. 
My colleague, the Minister for Health, who in this chamber represents the Minister for Social Security, is not in the House at the moment. He has a commitment in Sydney. I will see that the honourable gentleman's question is referred to him and that an answer is provided. 
The bilingual education program is undergoing an evaluation by my colleague at the present time. It is the first evaluation since the program was instituted. Both my colleague and I have a very high regard for the program and place considerable importance on it. I have been to a number of schools where the program is in operation. I have found that it is of great benefit to the Aboriginal children and that there is great enthusiasm by the teachers concerned. As to the particular point regarding staff ceilings, I will refer the question to my colleague and have an answer provided to the honourable gentleman. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission concerning the distribution between States of the local government tax sharing entitlements provided under the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976. The Act provides that in 1977-78 and each subsequent year, the amount of general purpose assistance provided to local government authorities will be 1.52 per cent of the previous year's net personal income tax collections. Since the local government tax sharing entitlement is expressed as a percentage of the previous year's tax collections the level of general purpose assistance provided to local government in any year is known with certainty early in that year. Honourable members will be aware that the earlier Commonwealth suggestion that the States' tax sharing entitlements also be related to the preceding year's personal income tax collections was again raised at the Premiers Conference on 1 July. 
The Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act also sets out the percentage distribution of the funds between the States. The percentage distribution in the Act is that recommended by the Commonwealth Grants Commission in its report of May 1 976. Following representations from Tasmania the matter of the percentage distribution was again referred early in 1977 to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for inquiry and report. The Commission recommended a new and marginally different distribution in its 'Special Report on Financial Assistance for Local Government 1977', tabled in the Parliament last May. That distribution was agreed to by all the Premiers at the 1 July Premiers Conference and has been incorporated into this Bill. The new distribution means that some States will receive a slightly larger percentage share and some States a slightly smaller percentage share; this is the inevitable result of the arithmetic. 
I point out, however, that the effect of increased net personal income tax collections in 1976- 77 compared with the previous year will swamp the effect of the small reductions for some States arising from the redistribution, and each State will receive substantially more in 1 977-78 than it received in 1976-77. On the existing basis of 1.52 per cent of net personal income tax collections being distributed to local government, the amounts payable to local government under this Act will be 18 per cent greater, overall, in 1977- 78 than in 1976-77. The Government considered the matter of the 1.52 percentage share when framing the Budget but decided that it could not see its way to increasing it in the present economic circumstances. 
Honourable members may recall that last May the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  suggested that consideration be given to making specific provision in legislation that the Commonwealth Grants Commission should follow equalisation principles in future reviews of local government relativities. I am pleased to inform the House that the Government is in consultation with the States on the matter of prescribing guidelines in the Act. We shall be examining the matter further when all States have made their views known. Further legislation may be necessary then. In the meantime, the Government has decided to proceed with this Bill so as not to delay the payment to local government authorities of their tax sharing entitlements for 1977-78. 
This Bill is a short one but it is important, nevertheless. Changes of the kind proposed in this Bill may well be required in the future from time to time. Under this Government's approach to federalism, this change is being proposed after proper process of independent inquiry, as will be any such changes in the future. The Bill continues the arrangements which have been instituted by this Government and which I believe have been of singular benefit to local government in this country. 
Local government received $140m in 1 976- 77, an increase of 75 per cent over the level of general purpose assistance provided to it by the Commonwealth in 1975-76. The level of assistance will increase still further to $ 165.3m in 1977- 78. Furthermore, the level of assistance is known very early in each new financial year, and this will assist local authorities with their budgeting. Very importantly, the funds will be untied. This will allow local government authorities to allocate funds in accordance with their own priorities. The inclusion of local government in the tax sharing arrangements has accorded it the status of a genuine partner in our federal system. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of capital grants to the States in 1977-78 totalling $477,933,000. This amount represents the grant component of the Loan Council program for State governments in 1977-78, and is one-third of the total program of $l,433.8m agreed at the 1 July 1977 Loan Council meeting. The Bill also provides for the payment of capital grants in the first six months of 1978-79 up to an amount equal to one-half of the 1977-78 amount, pending passage of legislation to authorise grants in 1978-79. Payments authorised under this Bill may be made from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or from the Loan Fund, and appropriate borrowing authority is included. This is consistent with past practice. 
These grants represent a continuation of arrangements initiated by the Liberal-Country Party Government in June 1 970, which provided that portion of the State governments' Loan Council programs should take the form of interest-free non-repayable grants in lieu of what would otherwise be interest-bearing borrowings by the States. The effect of the grants is to relieve the States of debt charges which they would otherwise have to pay, and the grants accordingly have a substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial positions. The grants were introduced to help the States finance works such as schools, police buildings and the like from which debt charges are not normally recovered. The States are, however, entirely free to apply these grants as they choose, and no terms or conditions are attached to them. 
Turning to the details of the Bill, clause 3 authorises the payment of grants to the States totalling $477,933,000 in 1977-78 and clause 4 authorises the Treasurer to make advance payments in the first six months of 1978-79 at the same annual rate as in the current financial year. The amounts payable to each State are set out in the Schedule to the Bill. Clause 5 of the Bill provides for payments to be made either from Consolidated Revenue Fund or Loan Fund and clause 9 provides for the necessary appropriation of these funds. The extent to which the payments will be met from Loan Fund will depend in part on the level of government borrowings during the year, and this cannot be precisely estimated at this point. Finally, on the details of the Bill, clauses 6 and 7 authorise the Treasurer to borrow funds in the period from the commencement of the Act to the end of December 1978, up to the total of the amounts of the grants payable in 1977-78 and in the first six months of 1978-79. This borrowing authority will be reduced by the amount of any borrowings made before the enactment of this Bill, under the authority of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act (No. 2) 1976, which may have been used to finance grants made in the first six months of 1977-78. 
I turn now to the general context in which this Bill is being introduced. The grants which are the subject of this Bill are, as I said, part of the State governments' Loan Council programs and these programs are in aggregate to increase by 5.7 per cent in 1977-78. Those who choose to ignore the overall context might criticise this rate of increase as being low. A proper assessment, however, would take into account the overall level of untied funds provided to the States and their authorities from the Commonwealth Budget. 
Total general purpose payments to the States together with the State government Loan Council programs are estimated to increase by no less than $685.1m or 14.0 per cent in 1977-78. Local government authorities' share of personal income tax collections will be $ 165.3m in 1977-78, 18.1 per cent more than last year. 
It is also relevant that the Loan Council program for the States' semi-government authorities has been increased by $204m or 2 1.3 per cent in 1977-78. 1 commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
by leave- When it took its decision to proceed with uranium mining under the stringent safeguards already announced, the Government gave the most careful consideration to the views of Aboriginal leaders as recorded in the Second Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry and to the Inquiry's recommendations on Aboriginal interests. As a result, the Government took a number of decisions relating to Aboriginal interests about which I now wish to inform the House in some detail. 
At the outset, let me emphasise the Government's intention to work closely with Aboriginals in relation to the measures recommended in the Ranger Inquiry's report and other measures which may be agreed upon. I intend to set the process of consultation in train personally at a special meeting with the Executive of the Northern Land Council, and with people from the Region, at Oenpelli in Arnhem Land this Saturday, 27 August. The Northern Land Council was established under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 with the functions of ascertaining and expressing the wishes and opinion of Aboriginals living in its area, of protecting their interests and consulting with and negotiating on behalf of traditional owners. The Northern Land Council has been in existence for some four years and is in a position to perform the functions required of it by the Act. 
According to the Ranger Inquiry's report 'the principal threat to the welfare of the Aboriginal people, and the one they most fear, is constituted by the large numbers of people who can be expected to enter the area'. The Aboriginal concern was put before the Ranger Inquiry by the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council,  Mr Silas  Ngulati Roberts, in the following terms: 
We are very worried that the results of this Inquiry will open the doors to other companies who want to dig up uranium on our sacred land . . . We think if they all get in there and start digging well have towns all over the place and well be pushed into the sea. We want a fair go to develop. We are human beings, we want to live properly and grow strong. 
The Ranger Inquiry concluded that Aboriginal opposition to mining should not prevail but the submissions from Aboriginals led the Inquiry to make recommendations which, as the report puts it, are 'designed to minimise the risk constituted by the large numbers of people entering the area'. Particular recommendations are made for the strict limitation on the size of the mining town and the use of the area by tourists. But the effect of other recommendations will also contribute towards minimising the risks. 
Moreover, the Ranger Inquiry's recommendations have been made on the basis that the Government's recognition of Aboriginal land rights, through the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, is, in the Inquiry's words, 'a uniquely favourable factor'. 
Pursuant to section 59 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973 I present the report of the Schools Commission on financial assistance granted to each State in 1976. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Student Assistance Act 1973 I present the report on the operation of that Act in 1 976. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Curriculum Development Centre Act No. 41 of 1975 I present the annual report of the Curriculum Development Centre for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Commonwealth Department of Education for 1 976. 
The Minister for Education has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The members of the Commonwealth/State Working Party on the Transition from School to Work or Further Study are: 

 Mr C. L. Beltz  (Chairman), First Assistant Secretary, Education Planning Group, Commonwealth Department ofEducation. 

 Mr J. Limbrick, First Assistant Secretary, Manpower Development and Operations No. 1 Division, Commonwealth Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 

 Mr M. Watson, Director, NSW Department of Technical and Further Education. 

 Mr W. R. Donohoe, Assistant Secretary, Victorian Department of Labour and Industry. 

 Mr W. Brown, Staff Inspector (Guidance Branch), Queensland Department ofEducation. 

 Mr J. C. Bannon, Assistant Director, Planning and Research Division, South Australian Department of Labour and Industry. 

 Mr K. Catterall, Superintendent of Guidance, Western Australian Department ofEducation. 

 Mr J. K. Noonan, Administrative Officer, Tasmanian Department of Labour and Industry. 
The Working Party is operating under the terms of a resolution made at the February, 1977 meeting of the Australian Education Council. These terms are that the AEC wished to: 
affirm its conviction that concerted action by State and Commonwealth education and employment authorities should be taken in the area of transition from school to work or further education, with particular reference to the problems of early school leavers. 
seek closer consultation and co-operation among education and employment authorities, both State and Commonwealth, in the development of policies and programs. 
acknowledge the relevance and importance of vocational preparation to the total educational process and having considered the OECD examiners report and the report of the national working party, propose, in consultation with Ministers for Labour, to coordinate policies for improved careers, education and transition services. 
recognise that TAFE authorities and institutions should be encouraged to take a more positive role in the transition area, including recurrent and adult education as well as in specialised vocational education. 
seek the active co-operation of employers and employees, of teachers and parents in these matters. 
invite the State and Commonwealth Employment Ministers to co-operate with it in the appointment of a small working party of officers to develop proposals for early consideration and, subsequently, to act as a steering group for further action. 
Council also resolved that the working party, as a part of its task, give consideration to basic perspectives which may establish a general context for more specific proposals for action. 
The Working Party is required to develop its initial proposals for consideration at the next meeting of the Australian Education Council in November 1977. 
Quarantine: Vessels Berthing at Cockatoo Island, Western Australia  (Question No. 1050) 
-The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Many programs for which Commonwealth funds are provided also include State and local government expenditures, and identifying the Commonwealth component of these combined expenditures on a particular project is difficult. 
Additionally, since Commonwealth funds are frequently allocated broadly by programs rather than by particular projects specifically identified and located, details of all projects for which the Commonwealth provides financial assistance are not readily available. 
Moreover, projects may not be within the bounds of a particular Federal electorate. 
For the foregoing reasons, to collect and assemble the kind of information that is requested would be a major task; and I am not prepared to authorise the expenditure of money and effort that would be involved. 
Division of St George: Works Undertaken by Department of Construction  (Question No. 1094) 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Commonwealth funds in the form of untied general revenue grants have been provided since 1974-75. Allocations to these Municipalities have been- 
a ) Canterbury Municipal Council 
-Pursuant to sections 13 and 14 of the Schools Commission Act 1973 I present the Schools Commission report for 1978 together with a statement by the Minister for Education relating to this report. 
It really is the supreme irony to hear the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  put forward the proposition that the Government has created confusion and inconsistency on taxation policy because, as he said, in essence the Government has not said that it is going to apply a resources tax to all mining industries. I remind the House that that was the foundation of the honourable member's speech. He said, and he said it with some pride, that the Labor Party would apply a resources tax to all extractive industries. The honourable member was saying that the Government was inconsistent because it was not applying its announced resources tax to all mining industries. I remind the honourable gentleman of what the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his Budget Speech about the Government's decision on crude oil policy: 
The Government believes that not all the additional profits resulting from these decisions- 
He was referring to the decisions to progressively increase the price of domestic crude oil to world import parity- should remain with the producers, and that the community should obtain a return from the exploitation of these resources which adequately reflects their value. 
The fact that the recendy increased value of crude oil stems essentially from action by a cartel of foreign oil producers makes the community interest in that enhanced value all the more obvious. 
In view of this, the Government has decided to increase the production levy on crude oil from $2 to $3 per barrel. 
The Government is, meanwhile, examining whether the levy should be replaced by a resources tax. 
That is what was announced by the Treasurer and that is what is happening. How, then, can the honourable member for Blaxland accuse the Government of spreading confusion or inconsistency? Discussions with the oil industry have commenced aimed at doing what the Treasury said- to examine whether the existing oil levy should be replaced by a resources tax. I would have thought that in terms neither of logic nor of public policy could the decision of the Government, announced by the Treasurer, be attacked as leading to confusion or inconsistency. During the years- it has been years- that the public debate has gone on about the need to increase the price of Australian crude oil there also have been discussions, not only with the present Government but also with the former Labor Administration, about the possibility of something in the nature of a resource tax if the increased price eventuated. I was interested to hear the honourable gentleman refer to the United Kingdom petroleum revenue tax. This Government, the oil industry and the oil producers know about that tax. We all have studied it and, of course, we have studied it against the Australian scene to see whether the scheme devised for the North Sea oil production is a suitable scheme for Australia. 
The other point, which is plain enough too, is that any resource tax in the oil industry must be a profit-related tax. We are not interested in imposing upon the industry an additional tax which might cripple the production of the crude oil that is so necessary for Australia at present or cripple the prospect of increased production from fields presently uneconomic. We recognise, as the previous Labor Administration refused to acknowledge, that by the early 1980s production of Australian crude oil will begin to diminish and that when that occurs we must supplement our own supplies from overseas and pay the higher prices which are charged for overseas crude. The way in which the Opposition speaks makes it quite clear that it has not learnt that taxation can be used not only as a weapon to derive revenue for the Government but also as an incentive to cause people to work harder and produce more for the economic benefit of the country. That is something that needs to be remembered when we contrast the Budgets of Labor's several Treasurers with what this Government has done under our Treasurer. 
I shall run very quickly through the incentives that have been provided by this Government- a private enterprise government- through reforms of the tax system. We have introduced personal tax indexation- an incentive to individuals to earn more, knowing that more of what they earn will not be taken away from them simply by inflation. We introduced it. It was before the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  when he was Treasurer, but he flatly refused to introduce it. Why did he refuse to introduce it? It was because it would cost the Commonwealth revenue. We were prepared to forgo the revenue because we realised that in doing so we would provide an incentive to individuals. Personal tax indexation has been supplemented by the magnificent tax reforms introduced in this year's Budget. There is the standard tax rate system by which individuals- blue collar workers and white collar workers alike- now will be provided with an incentive to work overtime, knowing that their overtime earnings will not be taxed at a higher rate. People will be provided with an incentive to accept promotions, whereas previously they were prepared to knock them back because to accept promotion under the Labor Government meant higher tax and it simply was not worth it. 
The investment allowance which we introduced as soon as we came into office in 1975 is a positive incentive to industry to invest. What was the record of the Labor Government? Already today we have heard the Treasurer quote from the Press conference on 18 August this year at which the hallowed member for Oxley and the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who has now come into the House, said that they would remove investment allowances because they are an extravagance. We believe that they are a positive incentive for business. We also have introduced company tax indexation through the trading stock valuation adjustment as an incentive to industry. This is something which the Labor Administration refused to introduce because it amounted to a cost to revenue. We are prepared to acknowledge the incentive. We also have moved in relation to taxation of income from mining and petroleum. Memories are not so short that the mining industry will not recall the terrible blow that was dealt to the mining and petroleum industries through the withdrawal by the Labor Administration of tax advantages under the income tax system which that Administration inherited from the former Libejal-National Country Party Government. We have reintroduced a substantial part of those advantages for the very purpose of providing the mining and petroleum industries with an incentive to get out, to explore and to produce. 
Distribution requirements for private companies under Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act have been eased so as to provide much needed assistance to small and medium sized firms, again at a cost to revenue but in order to provide incentive. We have eased estate duty provisions so as to ease the burden of estate duty on families. Income equalisation deposits have been given to farmers to provide them with an opportunity to protect themselves against the effects of fluctuating income on their tax liabilities. Now we have the revised income averaging provisions for primary producers which were announced by the Treasurer last night. I remind the House that all these measures have been introduced at a substantial cost to revenue. It probably runs into, in round figures, $4,000m to $4,500m over the preceding financial year and this financial year, without taking into account the continuing benefits which will flow to individuals and corporations. So, rather than there being any inconsistency or confusion, we can say that the policy commitment we made in the 1975 election campaign to restore incentive to individuals and corporations, to reform the taxation system and to place more money in the pockets of individuals has been honoured - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-(Stirling-Minister for Aboriginal Affairs)- For the information of honourable members, I present the first report of the Queensland Local Government Grants Commission on financial assistance for local government. Due to the limited number available, copies of this report have been placed in the Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. The recommendations made in this report have already been made available to members from Queensland. 
I am aware of the meeting referred to by the honourable gentleman which was held recently in Alice Springs. I understand that a march occurred in Alice Springs. The police were informed of the march and it was peacefully conducted. Certain representations were made to my regional director in Alice Springs about the employment of  Mr and Mrs Monks  at an Aboriginal Hostels hostel in that place. I am concerned at the circumstances in which the services of  Mr and Mrs Monks  were sought to be terminated at the particular hostel. However, I inform the honourable gentleman that the proposal by Aboriginal Hostels was that they be transferred to the management of another hostel in the eastern States and alternative opportunities were provided to them. I am also informed that the Aboriginals concerned wish to meet again in about a week's time. That meeting will be held. I shall of course keep a close watch on developments and keep myself fully informed on what is happening in this particular matter. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to implement a scheme to enable the Commonwealth to act as a guarantor for loans raised by non-government schools in the States to finance wholly or partially the construction of approved priority school facilities. The Government accepted the recommendation of the Schools Commission that a system of loan guarantees be established and in November of last year, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  announced this decision and foreshadowed the introduction of the necessary enabling legislation. The scheme will have considerable benefit for non-government schools in that it will allow loans for building projects to a maximum of $ 10m in any one year to be backed by Commonwealth Government guarantees. The scheme will provide muchneeded support for those schools wishing to raise loans especially those without institutional backing. In addition it will permit more favourable borrowing terms to be negotiated. Loan guarantees will also be available for projects which while approved in principle by the Commonwealth may not receive a grant. The Bill includes provision for the Commonwealth to recover any cost to it in the event of default. This scheme will foster increased building activity in nongovernment schools in the States. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: ( 1  M35)  It will be recalled that the previous Government in 1975 reduced the total level of expenditure under the education Commissions' programs for 1976. By contrast, this Government adopted levels of expenditure for 1977 which restored real growth to the education programs. Funds for colleges of advanced education were increased in real terms by 5 per cent, for TAFE by  Vh  per cent and for universities and schools by 2 per cent 
In times of major inflationary pressures no government can sustain Axed triennial planning because of the impossibility of making large fixed commitments three years ahead. Accordingly, the Fraser Government has introduced the principle of the rolling triennium with indicative planning guidelines to enable planning to be made against the prospect of increased national capacity. 
The guidelines for 1978 envisaged indicative planning goals of 2 per cent for universities, colleges and schools, and per cent for TAFE. In the light of the need for the maintenance of economic restraints the Government has not been able to provide for 2 per cent growth in the three sectors. It has, however, essentially consolidated them upon the base growth levels achieved in 1977 and has provided a 10 per cent increase for TAFE. 
The Government recognises that the slowing down of growth in universities and colleges of advanced education in 1978 may lead to some re-adjustments. Nevertheless as far as staff are concerned the wages and salaries component of recurrent expenditure will receive full cost supplementation. Such costs represent by far the major part of education expenditure. Although capital funds will not be supplemented in 1978, tender prices are proving to be far more stable in recent times. 
Concerning the Government's position on grants to schools, I refer the honourable member to my statement made in the Senate on 8 September 1977, when I tabled the Schools Commission Report for 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Canberra College of Advanced Education has purchased a BMW motor car during the last two years. The price of the vehicle was $1 1,995. The purchase was exempt from sales tax, under section 63a of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications ) Act 1 935. 
The car was purchased for use by the Principal for official purposes only. For eight years since his appointment, the Principal had used his own private car for official purposes. The car is garaged at the Principal's residence. 
I do not have the specific details requested. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question, which covered a number of matters. If in my answer I omit to refer to any of the matters raised I shall have them checked out and let him have the details. I do not have at my fingerprints the precise percentage comparisons between appropriation and expenditure since 1975, but I shall check the figures and let the honourable gentleman know whether his percentage is accurate. I remind him that I have supplied all honourable members and senators with a set of information papers covering expenditure on Aboriginal Affairs for the period 1974 to 1977 and allocations for 1977-78. 1 venture to suggest that it is the most comprehensive set of figures ever provided by a Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to the members of this House and of the other place. 
The honourable gentleman referred to the incorporation of Aboriginal organisations for the purposes of receiving funds from the Commonwealth. It is a requirement that organisations be incorporated not only for the purposes of financial management of Commonwealth moneys but also because of the simple fact, as the Leader of the Opposition would appreciate, that incorporation provides a means for the Government to receive a valid receipt from the organisation rather than from any particular individual. 
I do not know whether the North Queensland Land Council has applied under Queensland legislation to be incorporated either as a cooperative or as a company. There were instances in earlier years of some difficulty being experienced in some Aboriginal organisations in Queensland registering as a co-operative. So, it is not a fact that that body has not received any funds from the Commonwealth because it is not incorporated. A number of requests have been made to me for assistance to Aboriginal organisations in regard, for example, to the commission established by the Queensland Government to look at future policy in Queensland. I have received requests also from other organisations which are interested in putting forward submissions to that body for the purpose of advising the Queensland Government. I have had to consider each of those applications in order to determine which is the most worthwhile body to support I have that matter on my plate at the present time and I will be dealing with it. 
The honourable gentleman also raised the matter of the proclamation of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act. I hope to proclaim that Act very shortly. A good deal of work has had to go into establishing the administrative structure, including the central registry,  deputy  registries and the like, before the Act can be proclaimed. That work has almost been completed. I know that Aboriginal organisations are anxious to have it proclaimed so that they can incorporate under Commonwealth legislation. As I say, I hope that I can bring that about very shortly. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. It provides me with an opportunity not only to answer the New South Wales Minister for Housing but also to point out to that Minister and this House that in the current financial year the Commonwealth is providing to the State Government grants of $2,590,000 for housing in New South Wales through the State Housing Commission. In addition it is providing grants-in-aid to Aboriginal organisations of 3,260,000. The honourable gentleman will appreciate that a considerable amount of Commonwealth money is going into Aboriginal housing in New South Wales. Programs for housing through the New South Wales Housing Commission are worked out by agreement between the New South Wales Minister for Housing and my regional office. It is always open to the New South Wales Minister for Housing to seek to reallocate funds, for example, to the western districts of Sydney, if he considers that that is a matter of sufficiently high priority. 
As the honourable member points out, it is also open to the New South Wales Government, from the ample funds made available by the Commonwealth through the tax sharing formula, to provide housing funds for Aboriginals. This is not a one-way street. We provide money for special services to Aboriginals. That does not mean that the New South Wales Government should abandon Aboriginals. 
Pursuant to section 61 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, I present the report of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Tertiary Education Commission- 'Recommendations for 1978 ' together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  relating to this report. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
I ) The Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education recommended a program of assistance to State TAFE systems and institutions for the period July 1974- December 1975. The program was later extended to December 1976. Under the new three-year rolling program arrangements further allocations have been made for the support of TAFE in the States for 1977 and 1978, with indicative planning guidelines for 1979 and 1980. The following table sets out the amounts paid to the States for TAFE since [July 1 974. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes, subject to any planning revisions. 
3 ) Yes, plus servicing of the remaining sites. 
It is intended to continue with the construction of homes having regard to priorities within available funds and the expressed wishes of the Aboriginal people concerning the location of their homes. It is likely that some Aboriginal families will prefer to be housed at Davenport whilst others opt for housing within the Port Augusta township area. Discussions with the Aboriginal community to determine these questions are continuing. 
Australian Armed Services: Representation in Middle East (Question No. 1395) 
I only wish to reply shortly in respect of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I point out that, as happened in the Senate, the amendment is not acceptable to the Government notwithstanding the slight change in the wording of the amendment moved by the honourable member. As pointed out in the other place by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  the Government shares the concern of the Opposition that it should not be possible for governments to act without the knowledge of the Opposition, indeed not without the knowledge of all members of the Parliament, both in this House and in the other place. Hence what the Government has provided for in the Bill is that if the upper limit of $10m is to be increased, for example by reason of inflation or any other circumstances, so as to allow a higher level of guarantees to be given by the Government, this would be done by regulation. As has already been pointed out by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, under the Acts Interpretation Act such a regulation has to be tabled in both Houses of Parliament. On being tabled, as is the common practice, notice is given of the Government 's intention. If the Opposition is so minded it can move to disallow the regulation. 
In other words, ample notice is given to the Parliament and ample opportunity is given to the Parliament to disallow a regulation introduced by the Government. Therefore, as has been pointed out from this side, and as was really foreshadowed by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  on behalf of the Opposition, the amendment is both pettyfogging and pedantic. It does not need to be introduced into the legislation in order to afford the protection of parliamentary scrutiny. For that reason the Government does not accept the amendment. 
For the benefit of the Committee and for the benefit of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  I refer to section 48 in Part XII of the Acts Interpretation Act which covers the requirements for notification of regulations. I read it in full. It says: 
Where an Act confers power to make regulations, then, unless the contrary intention appears, all regulations made accordingly- 
a ) shall be notified in the  Gazette; 
b) shall, subject to this section, take effect from the date of notification, or, where another date is specified in the regulations, from the date specified; and 
shall be laid before each House of the Parliament within fifteen sitting days of that House after the making of the regulations. 
The point is that notification is by publication in the  Gazette.  Disallowance may be effected within 1 S days after tabling in either House. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer by the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs to question No. 1086  (Hansard,  8 September 1 977, page 989). 
Commonwealth Funding of Projects in Federal Electorates (Question No. 1093) 
-As one of the 108,000 people who watched the first grand final between North Melbourne and Collingwood I can agree completely with what the Prime Minister said about the greatness of the national sport, that is, Australian Rules football. I say that notwithstanding that I am a hockey player and would like some opportunity to applaud the virtues of hockey as perhaps the greatest amateur sport played in Australia. Coming directly to the question asked by the honourable gentleman, I am glad of the opportunity to correct the errors- I should perhaps say the malicious errors- put forth by the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in the other place about the community development employment project scheme. The criticisms are completely unfounded. 
It was suggested by the honourable senator that the scheme contravened certain anti-slavery conventions of the United Nations and other international provisions, such as those of the International Labour Organisation. The advice I have, after consultation with the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Attorney-General's Department, is that those conventions are in no way contravened. I point out to the House, and for the benefit of the shadow Minister, that Aboriginals want to work. They have welcomed with great enthusiasm the CDEP schemes which are a voluntary system for the employment of Aboriginals. The schemes are operating on a pilot basis in a number of communities such as Ernabella and Fregon in South Australia, Bamyili in the Northern Territory and Wiluna in Western Australia. Projects for other places are being discussed with Aboriginal communities. 
I was at Ernabella only a couple of months ago and the CDEP scheme was working to great advantage to fulfil the Government's objectives of self-management and self-sufficiency for these communities. Strange as it might seem to the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, these schemes have been welcomed because Aboriginals do not want to live off the dole. They want to work. For the benefit of the House and also for the benefit of the shadow Minister, I shall read a telegram which I have received from the Bamyili Council which is a wholly Aboriginal body. The telegram states: 
Bamyili Town Council most disturbed by criticism of CDEP in southern newspapers. Everyone is too keen to criticise Aboriginals when they try to manage their own affairs. We believe in CDEP and whole community supports. We seek your continued support for CDEP as it is the only way we can work the way Aboriginals want to. 
I assure the people of Bamyili and other Aboriginal communities that I and the Government will give them full support in the implementation of this scheme. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the reply to question No 1086  (Hansard,  8 September 1977, page 989). 
The Schools Commission is able to provide the honourable member with expenditure in regard to non-government schools in the electorates. I shall arrange for this to be forwarded to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question. 
The estimated number of school students for the next 15 years is not available in the detail requested. The following table gives projected primary and secondary school enrolments for each State, Territory and Australia for the next 10 years. The projections have been based on the assumption that present demographic and education patterns will continue in the future; any departures from current trends may cause the projections to differ significantly from actual future enrolment statistics. The projections were prepared by my Department. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) Statistics showing the number of children who have been designated as illiterate on leaving their secondary education during recent years are not available. However in 197S at the request of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, the Australian Council for Educational Research conducted a survey of literacy and numeracy standards in Australian schools. Separate samples of ten and fourteen year old students were selected, and the students' proficiency in reading, writing and numeration skills was assessed. The results of the survey have been published. (Australian Studies in School Performance, AGPS, Canberra 1976). 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I have not travelled overseas during the period in question. 
Minister for Primary Industry: Communications with  Mr Tong  Sun Park  (Question No. 1683) 
As I am sure the honourable gentleman is aware, my Department has no direct responsibility for the fostering of Aboriginal children. Fostering and the care of children is exclusively the jurisdiction of the various State agencies. However, I can inform the honourable gentleman that my Department has been working for some time in attempts to get a national policy towards the fostering of Aboriginal children. There has been a movement in some States for the establishment of Aboriginal organisations which will work in this field, but of course they must be registered with die appropriate State bodies. We are endeavouring to promote the idea that Aboriginal children should not be taken away from their natural parents unnecessarily and that in general circumstances Aboriginal children should be fostered with Aboriginal parents, accepting, however, that in appropriate circumstances white parents may provide a suitable home for Aboriginal children. 
At recent meetings that I have had with State Ministers responsible in this area, those Ministers have agreed that their officers will co-operate with mine in seeking to formulate a national approach to the fostering of Aboriginal children. I sponsored a national seminar on the fostering of children and on juvenile delinquency among Aboriginal children which was held in Sydney several months ago. Work is continuing on the results of that seminar which was almost wholly an Aboriginal seminar, and I hope that out of that will come standard policies across Australia which the States will implement and with which the Commonwealth can co-operate. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Council on Awards in Advanced Education for 1976. 
I have listened with interest to the comments made by honourable members in this debate on the estimates of my Department. Whilst I welcome many of the comments made by honourable gentlemen and their inquiries, such as those of the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  there are a number of points that I should not only clarify but rectify. I refer particularly to comments made by members of the Opposition. So I would like to take a little time of the Committee to deal with some of them. Some mention has been made of the matter of funding for the Department this year and of the funding of programs administered by my Department and other Commonwealth departments. I think a comment made yesterday by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)one  which I have made on a number of occasions -ought to be drawn to the attention of the Committee, and that is that the value, the worth, of programs funded by my Department is not to be measured in terms of money alone. I think it is fair to repeat that statement because I am firmly convinced that it is correct. I said in an address to the National Press Club on 7 July of this year, which was very close to National Aborigines Day: 
The status and role of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs should not be measured simply in terms of the money it spends. 
Many members of the Opposition delude themselves into thinking that they can measure what a government is doing in the field of Aboriginal affairs by looking at the total amount of money either appropriated or expended. Of course that was the great fallacy of the former Administration. It pumped so much money into Aboriginal affairs so quickly, without having laid the foundation of properly planned and administered programs, that it did far more damage than the value of the money itself. So, when this Government came to office and was given the responsibility of funding special assistance for Aborigines, one of the first things that we were concerned to do was to get control of the administrative base upon which programs were implemented because we were convinced that we would get real value only if we had well planned, well thought-out and soundly administered programs. I feel quite sure that during the last 20-odd months we have put the house in order; we have achieved the objectives that we set out to achieve by way of sound administration, well thought-out and well planned programs. 
So we have that foundation upon which we can expect that the appropriations will grow consistently and will fulfil those objectives that we all want to achieve. I indicate the way in which the Government approaches the matter of growth in expenditure by comparing the actual expenditure last year with the estimated expenditure for this year by way of the appropriations that the Government has made. I run down those figures very quickly within the totals of expenditure in 1976-77 of $161.5m and the appropriation for estimated expenditure for this financial year of $ 176m. That is an estimated increase of $15m. For health, expenditure last financial year was $ 18.3m. The appropriation for this financial year is $23.3m. For education, expenditure last financial year was $36.4m. The appropriation for this financial year is $43.3m. For employment, expenditure last financial year was $5. 5m. The appropriation for this financial year is $7.3m. For housing, expenditure last financial year was $40m. The appropriation for this financial year is $35m. For town management and public utilities, which provide a very significant source of funds for employment, the expenditure last financial year was $3 1.3m. The appropriation for this financial year is $34.7m. For legal aid, the expenditure last financial year was $3. 7m. The appropriation for this financial year is $3. 8m. For cultural, recreational and sporting activities the expenditure last financial year was $639,000. The appropriation for this financial year is $775,000. For enterprises, the expenditure last financial year was $4.2m. The appropriation for this financial year is $5.9m. For welfare, the expenditure last financial year was $2.6m. The appropriation for this financial year is $3m. General expenditure last financial year was $ 17.7m. The appropriation for this financial year is $ 18m. 
So there has been a steady increase in key areas. There has been a downturn in the appropriation for housing. I remind the House that funding for the Aboriginal Loans Commission for housing started off at $5m. An additional $2m was provided in that financial year. We increased the amount last year to $10m. That was a quick and substantial injection of funds into an area providing the basis for loans for home ownership in order to provide the Loans Commission with a substantial pool of money which will become a revolving fund. There has been a re-ordering of priorities in respect of these figures. That seems to be forgotten by Opposition members. Part of the on-going administration is to evaluate programs and re-order priorities. One of the significant things we have done in the reordering of priorities is to ensure that Aboriginal organisations receive proportionately a bigger part Of the Budget. In terms of our policy of selfmanagement and self-efficiency we believe that more funds should be directed through Aboriginal organisations. This is a consistent pattern of the handling of finances by this Government. 
Comments were made by a number of speakers about the unemployment situation amongst Aboriginals. This is a real and disturbing problem. As a Government we do not resile from that, nor from the problems which it brings. It was for that reason that I put down in this House on 26 May a statement on a national employment strategy covering the whole field of private employment, government employment, urban employment, rural employment and employment m the remote communities. It was out of our consideration of the problems facing Aboriginals in remote communities, in particular, where the ordinary labour market is not readily available to them that we devised the Community Development Employment Project scheme. Regrettably, as I have previously pointed out to this House, there has been a suggestion from the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs casting doubts upon the legal validity of that scheme. There is no question about its validity. It is designed to cater for a particular problem in the remoter communities. It has been enthusiastically welcomed by all the communities which have been approached to take part in the scheme. Nor can there be any suggestion that in its operation the scheme will amount to a denial of any rights which Aboriginals have as citizens. There can be no suggestion that there is an intention to disentitle them to unemployment benefits. The essence of the scheme is that Aboriginals do not want to have sit down money. They have seen within their own communities the social destruction that that kind of money can bring. They wish to work for an income. This scheme has been designed to provide work for those who wish to work. In those places where the scheme is in operation the ordinary work test on unemployment benefits. will apply. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  decried this Government's efforts in the land rights field. The full justification for what we have done in this area comes from the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. In considering how it would ameliorate the impact of mining on Aboriginal society the inquiry pointed out that through the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act introduced by this Government, Aboriginals were provided with a uniquely favourable factor which could be used to ameliorate and modify the impact of mining on Aboriginal society, providing Aboriginals not only with a land base but also a social base through which they could work for themselves and the Government could also work for them in co-operation with them. Regrettably, both the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  show no understanding of the significance of the establishment of land councils and the role of the Northern Land Council in respect of the mining of uranium and the working out of the Government's commitment to implement the Ranger Inquiry recommendations in respect of Aboriginals. Whilst they speak in terms of what the Government ought to be doing, they speak in terms of the old days when governments were looked upon as the protectors of Aboriginals. What we have done through the land councils is to provide Aboriginals with a body which can work in their interests. The land councils will negotiate with the Government or the mining companies as the case may be. 
In private conversation with officers of the land councils, particularly the Northern Land Council, and in addressing their executives and full meetings I have assured them that the Government will work in consultation and cooperation with them. When a question arose the other day about the Government's intention with regard to consultation over the mining of uranium I sent a telegram to James Golaroi Yunupingu, the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. It said: 
I tried to telephone you this morning without success because I wanted to reassure you on the Government's intentions to consult with traditional owners through the NLC on matters involving Aboriginal interests following uranium mining decision. I confirm that the situation remains as I have previously discussed it with you. 
Regards, Viner 
That reassurance and that commitment stand. There will be a full measure of consultation with the Northern Land Council. The Leader of the Opposition also spoke in regard to the Borroloola land claim now before  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Toohey, the first Aboriginal Land Commissioner. That claim, incidentally, is the first traditional land claim in the history of Australia. It is a hallmark in social advancement for the benefit of Aboriginals. I inform the Leader of the Opposition that there was no Cabinet decision such as he suggested. The Government will be appearing before the Commissioner along with a host of other parties. We will be providing information to the Commissioner which will be relevant to his considerations. 
I thank the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  for drawing to the attention of the Committee the importance of the Government's national employment strategy, and, in particular, the CDEP scheme. I particularly wish to mention my colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  He has shown how Aboriginals can be involved in schemes not specifically designed for them but for the benefit of all Australians. The honourable gentleman has brought an Aboriginal on to his committee looking at youth unemployment in his electorate. He is the first member of this Parliament to do that for Aboriginals, taking advantage of the initiative by the Government in the area of youth unemployment. The honourable member for Casey properly pointed out the significance of Aboriginal health. I was interested to hear him speak from his own studies and experience of the need to have health programs geared to the community level. 
In the speech to the National Press Club from which I have already quoted I referred to the initiative which is being taken by my Department in this area- something that we have called the community based health program. In that speech also I pointed out that part of that program will be to utilise the traditional healers within traditional Aboriginal society. I said also in that speech that I believe that what must be done, and done urgently, is to enlist and train more Aboriginals as field health workers- I emphasise the word 'field'- that is, health workers working out in the field amongst the communities and not necessarily in the clinical sophistication of hospitals. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  mentioned the National Aboriginal Conference. This Government appointed a committee of inquiry, three out of four members of which were Aboriginals, to look at the old National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. They found, for themselves, that Aboriginals regarded the old NACC as a failure. It had not come up to expectations and it was not doing what Aboriginals themselves wanted it to do. As a result of that committee report the Government has committed itself to a new national body, the National Aboriginal Conference, for which elections will be held throughout Australia on 12 November, except for Queensland where those elections will be held on 19 November. 
As I have told Aboriginals everywhere, the Government takes this new body seriously and will provide it with the means, through its own secretariat and its own staff, to conduct its own affairs. In addition we will be establishing a 
Council for Aboriginal Development which will be the formal advisory body to the Government. I might say that with the land rights legislation, with the national employment strategy and with the National Aboriginal Conference and the Council for Aboriginal Development, we have made three major steps in advance of our programs for Aboriginal self-management and self-sufficiency. With the firm foundation of administration and forward planning and with the foundation of funding which we have now established, I am quite sure that Aboriginals will be able to look forward with confidence to the success of the programs that we have already started. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Tasmania State Grants Commission on financial assistance to local government. Due to the limited number available, copies of this report have been placed in the Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. The recommendations made in this report have already been made available to members from Tasmania. 
I wish to make a few short remarks in reply to some of the comments made about the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory and the Department of the Northern Territory. I wish to refer particularly to the most unfair comments of the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  concerning the absence of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  from the House tonight. Had the honourable member for Fraser been more concerned about what is going on in the Department of the Capital Territory and the Minister's office, he would know that the Minister is in Melbourne representing the Australian Capital Territory at a Federal and State Ministers conference, a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. For the information of the honourable member for Fraser, I point out that the Minister for the Capital Territory attends almost all conferences of Federal and State Ministers because, not unnaturally, he represents the Territory in almost all portfolios, whether it be transport, social welfare or other areas. The Minister is assiduous in attending these meetings of Federal and State Ministers. It is for that reason that he is not here tonight. I am sure that the people of Canberra appreciate the reason for his absence. Likewise, I mention also that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  is present at the same national conference. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  referred to housing in the Capital Territory. He particularly raised the question of welfare housing. I should point out to the House that the system operated in the Australian Capital Territory is based upon the system operated in the States and also is based upon a means test. In the Australian Capital Territory, it is based upon 90 per cent of average weekly earnings, plus an allowance for dependent children. The overall housing account for the last year within the Australian Capital Territory showed a loss. In other words, for the information of the honourable member for Wills, the Government made a grant of about $100,000. So the Government is not recovering the cost of providing housing in the Australian Capital Territory. In the current Budget the Government is providing $3m in the form of rental rebate to assist pensioners and other low income earners who are tenants of Government dwellings. 
I think the remarks of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  ought to be particularly noted because he clearly said to the people of Canberra that he intends to be assiduous in their interests to see that the quid pro quo for any increase in rentals will be greater care and maintenance of housing by the landlord. In relation to the remarks of the honourable member for Fraser I was intrigued to hear what he said about small businesses in Canberra in complete disregard of the statement put down by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in the House only today which dealt with the Government's additional policy towards small business; that is additional to what has already been introduced by way of taxation reform in particular and the recovery of the economic health of the nation. As the Treasurer pointed out, recovery in the economy across the board will assist small businesses even more than large businesses. A further decline in the rate of inflation will assist small businesses to cope with the demands for expansion which one generally finds with small businesses through the entrepreneurial spirit which the proprietor brings to it. So as the economy recovers we will find the signs directly flowing to small businesses. 
I feel quite sure that when small businessmen read the statement of the Treasurer and understand the commitment of the Government in pursuit of its policy of supporting free enterprise they will see what we have already done. Through the 40 per cent investment allowance, the trading stock valuation adjustments and the change in Division 7 taxation permitting an increase from 50 per cent to 60 per cent in the amount of profits which private companies can retain without incurring undistributed profits tax, plus the proposals to expand the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank to enable it to lend to all kinds of businesses and also to extend the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, as well as the other initiatives which the Government has taken in providing counselling and information services to small business, businesses in Canberra will appreciate the activities of the Government. 
As Minister for Aboriginal Affairs I take up very quickly what the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  said about the drinking problems of Aboriginals. The problems are there, but when we speak about the drinking problems of Aboriginals, let us recognise that . drinking is a problem for all Australians. If we look at the statistics we will see that drinking is the first or second major health problem for the Australian community. So we ought not to isolate the problem among Aboriginals in order to make it appear as though they are the only people who have this problem. I conclude by advising the honourable member for Hunter that one of the most satisfying signs in Aboriginal affairs today in this field, as among others, is the way in which the Aboriginals are committing themselves to do something to overcome these problems. They are not looking exclusively to the Government to protect them. They are seeking ways in which they can support themselves. The honourable member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and his colleague  Senator Kilgariff  are very active in making representations to me to assist Aboriginals wherever they wish to assist themselves to overcome this and other problems. Through the combined efforts- not the solitary effort of government- of government and Aboriginal people I am quite sure there Will be a marked improvement in this area in the years ahead. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of National Resources 
Proposed expenditure, $52,0 1 1,000. 
Department of Overseas Trade 
Proposed expenditure, $65,60 1 ,000. 
Department of the Special Trade Negotiator 
Proposed expenditure, $ 100,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are two libraries in the Department, one is in Central Office, Canberra, and the other is in the Northern Territory, Darwin. Minor collections are held in offices at the following centres: Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Thursday Island, Mount Isa, Sydney, Inverell, Bourke, Dubbo, Griffith, Lismore, Box Hill, Hobart, Adelaide, Port Augusta and Perth. 
The main purpose of the libraries and minor collections is to provide a source of information for Departmental officers undertaking the wide range of functions affecting Aboriginal Australians. 
(2) 
Publications are generally received on an ad hoc basis and are usually free and as a result, they are not acquisitioned although they are catalogued. It would be impossible to provide detailed information on publications in this regard as no records were maintained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Collections by an increasing number of Government agencies do separately identify Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders from non-Aboriginals. The following official collections all do so: quinquennial censuses of population and housing; records of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service; hospital morbidity collections in New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia and the Northern Territory; imprisonment censuses in New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia; court statistics in Western Australia; child adoption statistics in New South Wales; vital statistics in the Northern Territory. 
Most Aboriginal Australians claim distinctive racial identities and it is certainly not an act of discrimation to record who they are in relevant administrative records. The absence of separate identification of Aboriginals in many statistical collections cause a lack of basic statistics, and this in turn hinders the task of assessing the extent of needs and therefore of the scale and department of programs required to meet perceived needs. 
The First Report of the National Population Inquiry said that'. . . discrimination or unequal status based on race cannot be eliminated, and may not even be affected, by preventing the collecting of data which will reveal its extent, in all probability this will merely allow inequalities to continue unchecked, especially since those responsible can then deny the inequalities exist. It is the lack of separate statistics which is discriminatory and it is imperative that this deficiency be remedied as a matter of urgency. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (10) The Government is pursuing an active policy of separate identification of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in the births and deaths notification forms used by the various State Governments. Discussions have been held with authorities in all States on this matter. Several State authorities are willing to introduce changes. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. Since Cyclone Ted struck, in his representations to the Government he has been very anxious to see that something is done for the Aboriginal people in Mornington Island and Burketown. I am glad to be m a position to advise him of the moneys allocated by the Commonwealth Government through the Queensland Government for the provision of housing in those areas. At Mornington Island my Department's share of the cost will be $1,480,500. At Burketown its share will be $950,000. That money will be provided through a two-year or three-year program. In fact, in this financial year the amount of cash provided by my Department for that housing will be $1,050,000. 1 also advise the honourable gentleman that in addition the Commonwealth will be providing, out of the Natural Disasters Relief Fund, the sum of $3,454,500, covering both centres. This money from the Commonwealth will finance the provision of 83 houses and 40 shelters at Mornington Island and 19 houses at Burketown. So the honourable gentleman will see that the Commonwealth is making a significant contribution to housing the people of those two places. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Education, given to the Senate by the honourable gentleman today, on programs of the education commissions for the 1978-1980 rolling triennium. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows direct Commonwealth expenditure on Aboriginals over recent years, compared with total appropriations, for DAA and other Departments: 
I thank the honourable member for the question. At the time this matter was gaining some notoriety he was extremely interested to know what was happening. Since then, with my colleague the Minister for Health, discussions have proceeded to review the proposal by the Aboriginal Medical Service at Redfern for a nutritional program amongst the Aboriginal children of that district. Discussions have also taken place with the New South Wales Health Commission, more particularly because the State Health Commission is already being funded by my Department to the extent of $37,000 for a nutritional program. It was thought then that because there was a need for continuous monitoring of the program that the State Health Commission would be the appropriate body to do it. 
Unfortunately, the State Health Commission has declined to monitor the program. Therefore I inform my colleague that the Minister for Health has agreed that the Commonwealth Department of Health should monitor the program which will be implemented through the Aboriginal Medical Service. The sum of $30,000 will be provided by my Department for each of the next two years so that the program can proceed. I also take the opportunity to point out to the House that already the Commonwealth, through my Department, funds the Government of New South Wales to the extent of $ 1.786m for Aboriginal health programs. Quite clearly with this addition to cater for a particular need in inner Sydney, the Commonwealth is making great strides to see that the needs of Aboriginal health are met in New South Wales. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) It is not practicable to define precisely all goods which fall within the descriptions of Australian souvenirs and Australiana, nor does the Customs Tariff distinguish between such goods and similar goods which are not souvenirs or Australiana-type goods. Accordingly I regret that it is not possible to provide a meaningful answer to the honourable member's question. However, if the honourable member will inform me of any particular products in which he is interested I shall provide the information he is seeking in respect of those products. 
The Australia Council, through the Crafts Board, and the Aboriginal Arts Board, provides assistance for the development of craft activities and the manufacture of Australiana souvenirs. The Crafts Board is concerned to create an environment conducive to the development of the crafts in Australia and has commissioned an expert Souvenir Product Investigation Report to consider ways of stimulating the production of souvenirs utilising Australian craftsmen and materials. The Crafts Board also makes grants to individuals and organisations to assist the development of crafts activities throughout Australia. The Aboriginal Arts Board provide subsidies to support the expansion of traditional Aboriginal art and craft production and also financially supports the souvenir and craftwork marketing enterprise, Aboriginal Arts and Crafts Pty Ltd. 
Assistance against import competition is accorded through the Customs Tariff. The level of assistance varies according to the product. As stated above, upon receipt of advice as to the particular products of interest to the honourable member, I shall provide information on current levels of duty in respect of those products. 
Federal Grants to the Municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick (Question No.  719) 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
(2) and (3) On 29 April 1977 it was announced that the Government had reviewed the range and effectiveness of assistance measures being accorded the textile, apparel and footwear industries. This review was made in view of the contraction during preceding months in the employment levels in these labour intensive industries. 
This review took into account more recent information on activity and employment trends in the textiles and clothing industries than was available to the Industries Assistance 
Commission when it prepared its interim reports of 30 November 1976 in relation to certain textile products and 1 December 1976 concerning a wide range of apparel items. Decisions regarding the quota arrangements for the 12 months commencing 1 March 1977 which were announced on 16 February 1977, followed consideration by the Government of these interim reports. In reaching those decisions the Government had noted the views of the Commission that implementation of the recommended levels of tariff quotas should improve production and employment opportunities in those sectors for which reduced quotas were proposed and maintain satisfactory levels of activity in the other sectors concerned. 
In the light of the review conducted in April 1977, the Government decided to extend the validity period of quota allocations for a further period of six months. It was made clear at that time that tariff quotas or import licences already issued would not be reduced and that the Government was seeking urgent advice from the Industries Assistance Commission on the supplementary quota levels relating to the additional six months period. 
On 17 August 1977, it was announced that, following consideration of a further interim report from the Industries Assistance Commission, the Government had accepted the Commission's recommendations regarding quota levels relating to the supplementary quota periods for a wide range of textiles, clothing, and footwear. These involved reductions in quota levels for 20 of the 3 1 product categories involved. In this context it should be noted that the Commission had acknowledged that the demand estimates which formed the basis for its recommendations in earlier reports had proven over optimistic and, in the main, expected increases in demand had not been realised. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes an amendment to the income tax law to provide for the reinstatement of an income tax exemption for income derived by bona fide prospectors from the sale, transfer or assignment of rights to mine for gold or any other metal or mineral that is prescribed for the purposes of the exemption. Our decision to reintroduce this exemption was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in Kalgoorlie on 7 October and this amending Bill was foreshadowed in the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1977. Until it was repealed in 1973 by the former Government, this exemption had been part of the income tax law for a great many years. 
A consequence of the repeal was that prospectors in the mineral fields of Western Australia and other parts of Australia were denied the special incentive they had enjoyed for so long in recognition of their special position in the search for and development of the mineral wealth of the nation. Not unnaturally strong representations have been made to the Government to restore this incentive, none stronger, I might emphasise, than those made by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, Mick Cotter, continuously since he entered this House at the 1975 elections. 
This Government believes that it is important to encourage the search for minerals which today form such an important part of the Australian economy. It also recognises that many prospectors are forced, for economic reasons, to transfer the right to mine minerals discovered by them to companies with both the finance and the knowhow to develop a large scale mining operation. 
Prospectors are encouraged to look for minerals they cannot hope to mine themselves if they know that any income that they will receive from transferring rights to mine their discoveries is not going to be reduced by taxation. An explanatory memorandum that is being circulated gives details of the amendments contained in this Bill, and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Department of Industry and Commerce is in the early stages of establishing a central library in Canberra for the purpose of providing a comprehensive information service on industry, commerce and economic matters to departmental officers, and more particularly to provide a reference and research facility for the newly established Bureau of Industry Economics. 
The need for the establishment of the central library arose following the creation of the Department of Productivity in November 1976 and the inclusion in that Department of the library facilities which had serviced the former Department of Industry and Commerce. The Department of Productivity library continued to service the new Department of Industry and Commerce until 1 July 1977 but since that time custody of appropriate reference material and operational responsibility has passed to the new central library. 
There is also a small library located in the Department's Shipbuilding Division in Sydney. The main purpose of this library is to act as a repository and source of technically orientated information of particular interest to the officers of the Shipbuilding Division. 
The Department shares with the Department of Overseas Trade, library facilities located in each State Regional Office. The Regional Offices are now servicing both this Department and the Department of Overseas Trade. The information requested by the honourable member in relation to these library facilities will be included in the answer provided by the Minister for Overseas Trade to Question No. 1348. 
Information in the form requested is not available. The following information is provided. 
Central Library 
Acquisitions prior to 1 July 1977 and now held in the central library of the Department of Industry and Commerce were made by the Department of Productivity and will be included in the answer provided by the Minister for Productivity to Question No. 1 37 1 . 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (b) Nil. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will provide legislative authority for two double taxation agreements entered into with other countries. One is with Greece and applies only to profits derived from international air transport. The other is with Belgium and deals with all substantial forms of income flowing between Australia and Belgium. Neither of the agreements can enter into force until all necessary legislative processes have been completed by both Australia and the other country. 
The limited agreement with Greece is of a now familiar kind and provides that each country is to exempt from its tax profits derived from international air transport by the other country's international airline. In effect, each country will have the sole right to tax profits from international traffic derived by its international airline in the other country. 
The agreement with Belgium was signed by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  earlier in the month and is along the lines of Australia's modern agreements, that is, those seven agreements negotiated or renegotiated since 1967. That being so, I think that I need not detain the House with an exposition of the purposes that are served by comprehensive double taxation agreements. Suffice it to say that the agreements provide in ordered ways for the two contracting countries to share in the revenue that is generated from income flowing between them. Under the agreement with Belgium, Australia is to reduce its withholding tax on dividends flowing to Belgian residents from 30 per cent to 15 per cent of the dividends. Conversely, Belgium is to reduce its rate of withholding tax on dividends- currently 20 per cent- to 1 5 per cent. 
I mention that profits out of which dividends are distributed by Australian companies to foreign shareholders now bear a company tax rate of 46 per cent so that, with withholding tax at the rate of 1 5 per cent, that total Australian tax on each $ 100 of distributed profits is a not insubstantial $54.10. The agreement specifies a limit of 10 per cent on each country's tax on interest and royalties flowing to the other. For Australia this will mean no reduction in our interest withholding tax of 10 per cent. For royalties flowing to Belgium, the Australian tax limit of 10 per cent of gross payments may operate to reduce the ordinary tax at general rates of net royalties. Belgium will reduce its withholding tax rate on interest and royalties from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. 
The agreement contains measures for the formal relief by the country of residence of double taxation of income that would otherwise be taxed by both countries. These measures supplement the relief that is available under the ordinary domestic law of each country. Generally, income which is taxed in full in the country of source will be exempt from tax by the country of residence while, in the case of income that is taxed at reduced rates in the country of sourcedividends, interest and royalties- the country of residence will tax the income and allow credit for the tax of the country of source. 
Apart from the provisions I have mentioned, the agreement with Belgium contains the usual provisions- common to double taxation agreements- relating to the taxation of business profits, visiting businessmen and employees, public entertainers, students and pensioners and so on. These and other aspects of the arrangements with Belgium are explained in an explanatory memorandum that is being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is to provide certain complementary legislative provisions to overcome technical problems encountered in the legislation for statutory authorities established by Territory ordinances. During the drafting of the Darwin Community College Ordinance 1973, it became apparent that provisions for the payment of budget appropriations, which are normally included in Acts constituting Commonwealth authorities, were beyond the power of a Territory ordinance. The Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Act 1973 was therefore enacted as complementary legislation to make 
E revision to overcome this deficiency for the col:ge and for any other Territory authority established by ordinance in the future. 
Since then it has become apparent that certain other provisions concerning loans and taxation normally included in Commonwealth authorities' Acts are also beyond the powers of an ordinance. Accordingly, this Bill will re-enact the 1973 Act with additional provisions to allow the Treasurer to determine the terms and conditions of Commonwealth loans to prescribed Territory authorities, and to enable him to give Commonwealth guarantees on other borrowings by prescribed authorities. 
Clause 8 of the Bill provides that certain noncommercial Territory authorities sepcified in Part 1 of the Schedule to the Act are exempt from Commonwealth and State taxation, unless regulations under the Act make a particular authority subject to a specified tax. Clause 9 provides that certain commercial Territory authorities specified in Part II of the Schedule are subject to taxation under the laws of the Commonwealth, but not subject to taxation under any law of a State unless the regulations make a particular authority liable to a specified state tax. The taxation provisions are in terms similar to those included in Acts constituting Commonwealth authorities passed by this Parliament. Because of the importance of taxation, provision has been made for the schedule of authorities to which the taxation provisions apply to be amended only by subsequent amendment of the Act. 
Specific provision is also made in the Bill for the Canberra Commercial Development Authority to be liable for income tax and sales tax, in order to comply with the intention when the Authority was established in 1974 that it should be liable to all taxes and charges normally applicable to private commercial enterprises. The Authority is to be made subject to income tax retrospectively from the date of its establishment so that it may benefit by offsetting any trading losses incurred in its early years against future taxable income, in the same way as a private developer. Because of administrative difficulties that would be involved in attempting to impose sales tax on past transactions, the authority will be subject to sales tax from the date of commencement of this Act. 
In view of the Government's decision last July concerning the advance toward self-government for the Northern Territory, there will be full consultation with the Northern Territory Executive before any Northern Territory authority is prescribed under this Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My attention was drawn to a meeting in South Australia of students who had made arrangements to travel with AUS Student Travel Pty Ltd but I am unable to confirm that it was the same meeting referred to. 
AUS Student Travel resumed trading activities on 12 September 1977 after agreement was reached on financial arrangements with its principal creditors namely, Qantas Airways Ltd., Thai Airways International, Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd, Singapore Airlines Ltd, Malaysian Airline System, Scandanavian Airlines Systems and Trans Australia Airlines. As the company is now trading again, I understand there is no longer a question of any financial loss being borne by student clients. 
and (4) The Australian Union of Students arranges charter flights under the terms of the Government's affinity charter policy. The procedure is for the carrier with which AUS has contracted to operate a particular charter, to gain approval from the Department of Transport. 
The licensing of a charter flight does not in any way commit the Government to act as guarantor for the flight. The matter is purely a contractual arrangement between the charterer and the airline operator. 
The Government has considered various proposals for the regulation of travel agents in Australia. The trading difficulties and closure of a number of travel agencies recently have reinforced the need for some form of regulation of the activities of travel agencies so that the travelling public can avail themselves of their services with confidence. On 25 September, 1977 I announced that the Government had approved the preparation of legislation to license travel agents throughout Australia. 
Yes. 
7 ) The Government is continuing to monitor the activities of AUS Student Travel but, as mentioned in my answer to question 2, student travellers are not expected to suffer losses. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Queensland Government has not put forward any proposal seeking Commonwealth Government funds for the establishment of a Technical College at Redcliffe. 
Airports: Land Available for use by Aviation Industry (Question No. 1717) 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment to Queensland of $24.8m in 1977-78 as a special grant. The payment of this amount is in accordance with the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission contained in its forty-fourth report on special assistance for the States which was tabled recently. The Bill also seeks authority for payment of advances to Queensland in the early months of 1978-79, pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations for that year and enactment of any necessary legislation to provide for any special grant that may be paid to the State in that year. 
The Commonwealth Government from time to time, on the recommendation of the Grants Commission following applications by States, makes special grants to the less populous States to compensate them for such factors as lower capacity to raise revenue from their own resources and higher costs in providing government services of a standard comparable to that provided by the financially stronger States. When such special grants were first paid they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance paid to the financially less strong States for this purpose. 
However, for many years now, the main way in which special compensatory assistance has been provided to these States has been through the payment of higher per capita amounts of other general revenue funds. This situation is reflected today in the fact that personal income tax sharing entitlements paid to Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania are higher, in per capita terms, than similar entitlements paid to New South Wales and Victoria. 
Under the personal income tax sharing arrangements, the less populous States continue to be free to apply for special financial assistance on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. This is one of the explicit understandings between governments in relation to the tax sharing arrangements. Any such special grants should be regarded as supplementing a State's entitlement under the tax sharing arrangements in the same way as they formerly supplemented the financial assistance grants. Currently Queensland is the only State applying for special revenue assistance under the Grants Commission arrangements. 
Queensland's estimated entitlement in respect of 1977-78 under the personal income tax sharing arrangements is $776.2m, representing $361 per head of population compared with an average of $264 per head for New South Wales and Victoria. Accordingly, the assistance provided by way of the special grant should be seen as supplementing the special compensatory assistance of $97 per head, or $2 10m, provided to Queensland by way of the tax sharing entitlement. Local authorities also, of course, participate in the tax sharing arrangements and this year Queensland received $27.9m for distribution to local authorities in the State. This is $3.7m more than last year and more than double the general purpose assistance provided to local authorities in Queensland in 1975-76. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission, in arriving at its recommendations in relation to claims for special assistance, makes an assessment of the 'financial needs' of a claimant State. In making such assessments, the Commission compares in detail the finances of the claimant State with those of New South Wales and Victoria, taking into account differences in revenue raising capacity and differences in the cost of providing comparable services. 
The payments of special grants recommended by the Commission consist of two parts. One part is based on a preliminary estimate of the claimant State's financial need in the current financial year, and is treated as an advance payment subject to adjustment two years later when the Commission has compared in detail the finances of the claimant and standard States for that year. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance payment made two years earlier and is known as the completion payment. This adjustment may be positive or negative and therefore may result in the final grant in respect of a year being higher or lower than the advance payment for that year. 
The payment to Queensland in 1977-78 of $24.8m provided for by this Bill comprises an advance payment of $ 14m in respect of 1977-78, and a completion payment of $ 10.8m in respect of 1975-76. The completion payment in respect of 1975-76, when added to the $25m advance grant paid to Queensland in that year, brings the final grant in respect of 1975-76 to $35.8m, which is $ 11.4m more than the corresponding figure for 1974-75. The advance grant for 1977-78 will, in accordance with normal practice, be subject to adjustment in two years' time. The Commission's recommendations in relation to the special grants arrangements have been adopted by the Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should be accepted on this occasion. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2), the Income Tax (Individuals) Bill, the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill, the Health Insurance Levy Bill, the Income Tax (Film Royalties) Bill, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the eight Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)There being no objection, I will permit that course to be followed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the payment of grants to the States for government and non-government schools in 1978-the first year ofthe 1978-80 rolling triennium. In addition the Bill adjusts grants for 1977 in respect of cost increases. Honourable members will recall that the Government announced in June of this year that it would provide for expenditure in 1978 of $57 lm, in December 1976 prices, for government school programs, non-government school programs, and joint programs through the Schools Commission. The Commission's report was tabled in the Parliament in September and recently the Government announced its acceptance of the Commission's recommended allocations for 1978 consistent with the guidelines. The Bill gives effect to those decisions. 
I direct the attention of honourable members to the Bill. It provides for the continuation of all existing programs for government and nongovernment schools. These are: General resources programs- general recurrent grants, including funds for child migrant and multicultural education, emergency aid for nongovernment schools, and capital grants; specific purpose programs- disadvantaged schools and schools in disadvantaged country areas, special education for handicapped children including children living in institutions, services and development including education centres, and special projects. 
Although the format of the Bill is different from the existing States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1976, it contains the same provisions. The new format more closely reflects the way in which the programs are administered. The base program for migrant and multicultural education is the same in total as for 1977, but has been adjusted between States and systems to bring the payments more into line with the actual distribution of migrant children. The provision for development activities and associated staff replacement has been combined into one schedule to provide additional flexibility for the States. Administrative arrangements will provide for flexibility of funding between development activities and the replacement of teachers. A minimum of about 40 per cent will be allocated to each of the activities and replacement elements of this program with the balance able to be used for either activities or replacement. 
The Bill provides for funding of $3.7m for special projects of which some $3m is for school based innovations projects and $700,000 for national level projects. Details of the 1978 allocations for individual programs in each State are given in Schedules 1 to 8. The grants specified in these Schedules have been adjusted to June 1977 prices, except for the non-government schools general recurrent program which includes some allowances for estimated future cost increases. On this basis the cost of programs for 1978 amounts to an estimated $6 11m, of which $28.3m will be provided under the ongoing States Grants (Schools) Act 1972. 
In accordance with the Government's guidelines for the 1978-80 triennium, these grants will be adjusted in subsequent legislation for cost movements to the end of 1977 and for increases in wages and salaries components of recurrent grants during 1978. As I have indicated, the Bill also adjusts the grants for 1977 from December 1976 prices to June 1977 prices. In line with normal practice the non-government schools general recurrent program includes final provision for cost increases to the end of 1977. The additional cost of these adjustments is $22m. Amending legislation will be introduced in the 1978 autumn sittings ofparliament to finalise the supplementation of 1977 grants. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide financial assistance to the States for universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education for 1978. The Bill gives effect to the financial recommendations contained in the report of the Tertiary Education Commission for 1978. The House was informed recently of the Government's decision to accept these recommendations which result in the allocation of an estimated total of $1, 136.5m in June 1977 prices for institutions in the States. The amounts provided for each of the three tertiary education sectors are as follows: 

<graphic href="107131197711016_65_1.jpg"></graphic>

It will be recalled that the guidelines for 1978 provided for base levels of grants at the same real levels as for 1977 in the case of universities and colleges of advanced education and an increase of 10 per cent in real terms for TAFE. The amounts now provided in the Bill take into account the small adjustments to capital expenditure recommended by the Commission in the light of its assessment of likely cash flow for the advanced education sector building program in 1978. The full building program proposed by the Advanced Education Council and recommended by the Commission is incorporated in the legislation to enable all projects to commence in 1978. In accordance with the Government's guidelines for the 1978-80 triennium, these grants will be adjusted in subsequent legislation for cost movements to the end of 1977 and for the increases in wages and salaries components of recurrent grants during 1978. 
In the past, separate Bills have been required to implement the approved programs of the three tertiary education sectors. Following the establishment of the Tertiary Education Commission, replacing the three previous commissions concerned with tertiary education, it has been possible to consolidate the necessary legislation in one Bill. In so doing, a common approach to the terms and conditions applied to grants for the three sectors has been adopted wherever appropriate. 
The new arrangements will permit a greater degree of flexibility in the administration of approved programs, thereby assisting the Commission in its functions of co-ordination and rationalisation for the tertiary education system. In particular, the Government believes it is necessary, in order to achieve efficient expenditure of the funds available, for there to be flexibility in the administration of the capital programs for the three sectors. Under the Bill, the Minister will be given power to effect transfers of capital funds between sectors and between States after advice from the Commission. Such transfers between sectors will be subject to consultation with the States concerned and, where any transfers between States are contemplated, will be made only with the agreement of those States. 
The capital programs set out in the Bill will appropriate the total cash flow for 1978 approved by the Government under the guidelines. Provision has therefore been made in the Bill to limit appropriations under previous legislation to those which are required to fund the capital programs until the end of 1977. The effect of this provision is to withdraw appropriations for projects for which the States are not seeking support and for four projects in the advanced education sector which were included in the review of capital projects not under contract which was conducted by the Commission at the request of the Government under the guidelines for 1978-80. Any of these projects can be considered for inclusion in the 1979 program. 
In addition to appropriating funds for 1978, the Bill amends the States Grants (Universities Assistance) Act 1976, the States Grants (Advanced Education Assistance) Act 1976 and the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Act 1976 to provide for adjustments to approved programs of grants for 1977, for movements in costs between December 1976 and June 1977. The additional funds provided are $24m for universities, $10m for colleges and $3.4m for TAFE. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I seek leave to move the third reading forthwith. 
I seek leave to make a statement on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch). 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the New South Wales Local Government Grants Commission and the Western Australian Local Government Grants Committee on financial assistance to councils for the year 1977-78. The recommendations made in these reports have already been made available to honourable members from New South Wales and Western Australia. 
by leave- At present, foreign company groups usually conduct their operations in Australia through a subsidiary company which is incorporated here and is thus resident in Australia for income tax purposes. These investors pay company tax of 46 per cent on their Australian taxable income, plus dividend withholding tax on dividends remitted to their home country. The basic rate of withholding tax is 30 per cent, and this is reduced to 15 per cent where the shareholder is resident in a country with which Australia has a comprehensive double tax agreement. Some foreign company groups conduct Australian operations through a branch of a company that is incorporated overseas, and, for tax purposes, resident in another country. The Australian taxable income of these branches is liable to company tax of 46 per cent, but remittances of branch profits to head office and dividends paid to foreign shareholders do not attract Australian tax additional to the primary company tax of 46 per cent. 
The Government will correct the lack of balance by introducing a branch profits tax based on the Australian taxable income of foreign resident companies. The tax applicable to branch profits, which will be a broad substitute for the dividend withholding tax applicable to dividend remittances by subsidiaries, will be designed to ensure that the benefit Australia obtains from foreign investment by way of tax revenue is not reduced because of the form in which operations are conducted here. Other countries have branch profits taxes and the Asprey Committee recommended that one should be introduced in Australia. Consideration of imposing a branch profits tax began some time ago. 
The tax that the Government has in mind will be related to taxable income of non-resident companies, as distinct from a tax based on remittances of branch profits. As branches, unlike subsidiaries, are taxed on dividend income, it is not intended to apply the branch profits tax to the part of taxable income referable to such income; nor is it envisaged that it will apply to other income of non-residents taxed under special provisions of the income tax law, namely, film royalties, shipping profits, or insurance premiums. The tax, when introduced under Legislation to be brought forward in the autumn, will apply to income of the 1977-78 income year and subsequent years and, like company tax, will be due for payment in the year following the year in which the income is derived. I present the following paper. 
Branch profit tax on foreign companies not operating in Australia through a resident subsidiary- Ministerial Statement, 4 November 1977. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. The decision was made as part of a general review by the Government of the level of grants-in-aid in 1 977- 78, having in mind the need for economic restraint 
) No decision has been made with respect to the grant in 
1978- 79. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Education has not had any expenditure on capital works within the Electoral Divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson during each of the years 1973-74 to 1976-77, inclusive. I have not included funds which may have been made available through the education commissions. 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the answer given by my colleague the Minister for Construction to Question No. 1793. 
Commonwealth Funding of Science Projects in Queensland (Question No. 1795) 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to question No. 1556 (  Hansard,  26 October 1977, page 2462). 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am advised that the amounts spent on earthworks projects, including projects with a major earthworks component, at the Mt Helen Campus by the Council of the Ballarat College of Advanced Education (prior to July 1976, the Ballarat Institute of Advanced Education) from its allocations of funds for Siteworks and for other Works and Services have been: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member was provided in answer to Senate Questions Nos 896-909,  Hansard,  17 August 1977, pages 2 12-41. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to move the third reading forthwith. 
Pursuant to contingent notice, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the remaining stages being passed without delay. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Commonwealth funds are provided to the Preston Institute of Technology under States Grants (Advanced Education) legislation on a calendar year and not a financial year basis. 
The Commonwealth sums provided in respect of 1975, 1976 and 1977 are tabulated below, together with the estimated provision for 1978. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Commonwealth funds are provided to La Trobe University under States grants legislation on a calendar year and not a financial year basis. 
The Commonwealth sums provided in respect of 1 975 and 1976 are tabulated below, together with the estimated provisions for 1977 and 1978. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The following tables provide details of payments made in the calendar years 1976 and 1977. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question. 
The following tables provide details of payments made in the calendar years 1976 and 1977. Information of this nature is maintained on a calendar year basis rather than on a financial year basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Central Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, $260,000; Central Australian Aborigines Congress (including Medical Service), $512,500; Aboriginal Hostels Limited, $477,000 (including $244,000 capital works). 
On the basis of the salary component contained in those approvals, provision was made for the employment of the following number of persons: 
Central Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, 1 1; Central Australian Aborigines Congress (including Medical Service), 50; Aboriginal Hostels Limited, 18. 
The organisations are autonomous bodies and free to engage additional staff or otherwise re-organise levels of staff providing the allocation of funds for salaries is not overspent. Finance from independent sources may be obtained over which my Department has no control. 
See (i) 
This information is contained in the Constitutions or Articles of each organisation and these may be examined at the Company's office at Canberra and Darwin respectively. 
Central Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, Yes- Quarterly certified returns and annual audited statements; Central Australian Aborigines Congress (including Medical Service), Yes- Quarterly certified returns and annual audited statements; Aboriginal Hostels Limited, Yes- Quarterly certified returns and annual audited statements. 
Central Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, Yes; Central Australian Aborigines Congress (including Medical Service), Yes; Aboriginal Hostels Limited, Yes. 
Each organisation is responsible for controlling its own vehicle usage. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) In most cases, the government has not been consulted before the school authorities concerned sold or otherwise disposed of facilities. The Schools Commission has been advised, however, of what has happened to facilities and equipment in the case of the following schools: 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) to (3) I announced in the Senate on 4 November 1977  (Hansard,  pages 2102, 2103) that the Government has reviewed the question of fees assistance for private business colleges 
The Government has decided to continue the limited support of the existing private business colleges and interim funding will be provided in 1978 to those colleges currently receiving support on the present basis after making some allowance for cost increases. Consistent with this approach, full-time students in the colleges concerned will continue to be eligible for Ternary Education Assistance Allowances. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Information in respect of fees charged in individual nongovernment schools is supplied to the Schools Commission on the understanding that it will remain confidential. I am not prepared, therefore, to release this information. Details of enrolments follow: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Minister representing the Prime Minister to Senate Question No. 1116,  Hansard,  9 November 1977. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The responsibility for the Apprentices Ordinance 1948-1971 is to be transferred to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly with effect from 1 January 1978. It would therefore be inappropriate for the Government to develop substantive changes to the Ordinance at this stage. 
I understand that the Ordinance may be reviewed after the transfer of responsibility and I would expect that the review would include a consideration of the matter referred to by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Overseas-$1,006 (b) Domestic-$794,114 
(a) 0.1 3 per cent (b) 99.87 per cent. 
Department of Construction: Expenditure on Travel (Question No. 1653) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Homeless Persons Assistance Act 1 974 is administered by the Department of Social Security and makes available financial assistance to eligible organisations to provide temporary accommodation, meals and personal services for homeless men and women. It is understood that several organisations in the Guildford area have made inquiries about attracting assistance for the provision of hostel facilities for homeless Aboriginals. No formal applications have been lodged with the Department of Social Security. 
The Aboriginal Land Fund Commission is empowered to make grants of money available to Aboriginal corporations or lands trusts to acquire land for traditional, cultural or economic purposes. Alternatively, it can purchase land itself and make it available to those bodies. By ministerial direction, it is not permitted to purchase land in the metropolitan area or for the prime purpose of housing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Department of Aboriginal Affairs  Mr B.  Lindsay and  Mrs K.  Ashlin. 
Flinders Island Community Association Inc. 
Town Management and Public Utilities-Mr D. Roughley and  Mrs P.  Lowrey 
Enterprise-Mrs W. Riddle, K. Everett, R. Purdon, V. Graham, D. Farley, M. Graham, D. Willis and F. Willis. 
Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre Inc.-Mr M. Mansell, Miss H. Sculthorpe,  Mr C.  Mansell, Miss D. Mansell, Miss D. Gardner,  Mr P.  Slicer. 
Health Department (State)- Sister J. Jones 
Welfare Department (State)-Mesdames M. Mabb, L. Dixon, L. Chris tensen, D. Brown, F. Gardner, M. Thomas, R. Mansell. 
Education (State)-Mesdames J. Patmore, A. McEnry, T. Ackerley, S. Peattie, J. Prior, A Daley, T. Meyes, T. Down, P. Pettit, P. Trail, J. Haywood, J. Cooper, N. Van Englen, Boutten. 
Education (Commonwealth)-Messrs J. McCulloch, B. Hartney, R. Calitz. 
(A) Department of Aboriginal Affairs 

 Mr B. Lindsay, Officer-in-Charge, TasmaniaLiaison and consultation with all Commonwealth/ State/local government resource departments, continuing consultation with Aboriginal organisations, agent for Aboriginal Loans Commission and Aboriginal Hostels Limited. 

 Mrs K. Ashlin- Clerical Assistant Grade 2- normal office duties. 
Flinders Island Community Association Inc. (FICA). 

 Mr D. Roughley, Manager-responsible to FICA executives for supervision and administration of all activities. 

 Mrs P. Lowrey, typist-normal office duties. 
Messrs W. Riddle and F. Willis-contract carpenters. 
Messrs R. Purden and D. Farley- truck drivers/labourers. 
Messrs K. Everett, V. Graham, D. Willis, N. Graham- labourers. 
Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre Inc. (TAC). 

 Mr M. Mansell-State Secretary/Public Officer responsible to TAC executive for supervision and administration of all activities relating to Aboriginal  legal aid services carried out by that organisation. 
Miss H. Sculthorpe- Administrative Secretary responsible for budgeting, accounting etc 

 Mr C. Mansell-Legal Aid Field Officerinterviewing of Aboriginal people seeking legal aid, briefing solicitors on cases etc 
Miss D. Mansell and Miss D. Gardner- typist/receptionist's normal office duties. 

 Mr P. Slicer- retained solicitor-part-time advising on legal cases and part-time representation. 
Health (State)- Sister J. Jones- nursing sisterprovision of medical services in an isolated area. 

 Mr P. Slicer-retained solicitor-part-time advising on legal cases and part-time representation. 
Health (State)- Sister J. Jones-nursing sisterprovision of medical services in an isolated area. 
Welfare (State)-Mesdames M. Mabb, L. Dixon, L. Christensen, D. Brown, F. Gardner, M. Thomas and R. Mansell- part-time Aboriginal Homemakers providing personal assistance and liaising with other agencies to assist Aboriginal families who are unable to cope due to social pressures, imprisonment of breadwinner and other related circumstances. 
Education (State)- Mesdames J. Patmore, A. McEnry, T. Ackerley, S. Peattie, J. Prior, A. Daley, T. Meyes, T. Down, P. Pettit, P. Trail, J. Haywood, J. Cooper, N. Van Englen, Boutten- part-time remedial teachers assisting slow learner Aboriginal children to compete on an equal basis with children who are able to cope with studies. 
Education (Commonwealth)-  Mr J.  McCullochEducation Officer Class 2 Messrs B. Hartney, R. CalitzEducation Officers Class 1- Student Service Section, involved among other duties in administration of Aboriginal Secondary and Study Grant Schemes in Tasmania. 
3 ) ( A) Department of Aboriginal Affairs, Hobart. 
Flinders Island Community Association Inc., Flinders Island. 
Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre Inc.-  Mr M.  Mansell, Miss H. Sculthorpe, Miss D. Mansell,  Mr P.  Slicer-Hobart.  Mr C.  Mansell, Miss D. Gardner- Launceston. 
Health (State)- Sister J. Jones- Cape Barren Island. 
Welfare (State)-Mesdames Mabb, Dixon, Christensen, Brown- Hobart. Mesdames Gardner, Thomas, Mansell- Launceston. 
Education (State)- Mesdames Patmore, Ackerley, Prior, Daley-Hobart;  Mrs McEnry-Sygnet; Mrs PeattieHuonville;  Mesdames Meyes and Down- Acton;  Mrs Pettit-  Smithton;  Mrs Trail-  Launceston;  Mrs HaywoodCressy; Mrs Cooper-  Summerdale;  Mrs Boutten-  Flinders Island;  Mrs Van  Englen- Summerdale. 
Education (Commonwealth) Messrs McCulloch, Hartney and Calitz- Hobart. 
This information is personal and I am not prepared to divulge it. 
5 ) As for Question (4). 
Total Commonwealth expenditure in Tasmania is as follows-1972-73-not available; 1973-74-not available; 1 974-75 -$5 1 8, 000; 1 975-76 - $6 1 2,879; 1976-77-$452,527; 1 977-78-$497,000 (proposed). 
Until the 1976 Census figures become available no definite answer can be given. In April 1 975 the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment heard evidence to the effect that the total Tasmanian Aboriginal population was between 4,000 and 5,000. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs is currently in the process of compiling community profiles. These indicate in their incomplete form, an Aboriginal population in excess of 2,000 in Tasmania. 
Information on Commonwealth expenditure on Legal Aid in 1972-73 and 1973-74 is not available. Expenditure in other years is as follows: 1974-75-$66,000; 1975-76-$85,000; l976-77-$85,000. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Advertising by the Department of Education is undertaken for the most part to draw the attention of interested institutions and persons to grants, benefits, scholarships and other forms of assistance under the programs for which it is responsible. Some advertising is also used for employment vacancies. In the ACT and Northern Territory advertising is also used to inform prospective students of courses at Technical and Further Education Institutions and to indicate the availability of course to migrants. The use of advertising, in the case of grants and similar programs is closely related to an annual timetable of processing of applications related to the academic or school year. These processes are an integral part of program administration and cannot properly be described as 'campaigns'. 
Advertising by the Department is placed through the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
Information on expenditure for some of the specific periods listed is not readily available. Expenditure on advertising by the Department for the financial years 1975-76, 1976-77 and the estimate for the year 1977-78 is shown below: 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Criminology Research Act 1971, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Institute of Criminology for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
Pursuant to section 43 of the Criminology Research Act 1971, 1 present the annual report of the Criminology Research Council for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Over the last couple of years, by the preference of the community itself, a considerable sum of money has been provided for the maintenance and renovation of existing houses. Over the last two years the sum of $1 12,000 has been made available for this purpose. Recently I approved the allocation of $130,000 for the building of four new houses, and during this financial year at least that number of nouses will be built. In November last year my colleague  Senator John  Knight discussed with me the problems of the Wreck Bay community. He indicated to me that he wished to go there and discuss the matter with the people. I asked him to do that not only in his own interest as the senator representing those people but also in my interest as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs.  Senator Knight  did so and reported to me that the people were desirous of having new houses built now rather than a continuation of the previous program of carrying out renovations with labour from the Wreck Bay community. I was very glad to be able to respond to  Senator Knight's  representations and to make the allocation of $130,000 that I have indicated for the building of four new houses during this financial year. 
I inform the honourable member for Fraser that my colleague the Minister for Construction, through his Department, is my technical consultant in housing programs.  His  Department and mine liaise very closely together in any programs concerned with building houses for Aboriginal communities through their own housing associations. I also inform the honourable gentleman that my Department is not a functional department in the sense that it does not carry out maintenance of the kind that he requested. That would be a quite inappropriate function for my Department to carry out. Rather, it has the role of policy planning and co-ordination and the fixing of priorities for the appropriation of funds. Where technical assistance is required I call on the adequate services of the Department of Construction. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of Aboriginal Hostels Ltd for the year ended 25 June 1 977. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Legislative Drafting Institute Act 1974, I present the annual report of the Legislative Drafting Institute for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Victorian Local Government Grants Commission on financial assistance for local government in that State. Due to the limited number available, copies of these reports have been placed in the Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. The determinations on allocations to local government authorities for 1977-78 made in this report have already been made available to honourable members from Victoria. 
in reply- I wish to take this opportunity to join with the  Chairman  of the Committee in the last Parliament, the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  in expressing my thanks and the thanks of this House for the work done over many years by  Mr W.  C. Wentworth and  Mr Kim  Beazley who are two former members of the Standing Committee. Their interest was both academic and practical. Added to that interest was their great parliamentary experience extending over some 30 years. They brought all those qualities to bear in this particular and very special area of Aboriginal affairs. On behalf of the Government and of the Parliament, I acknowledge the debt which we owe to the work done by those two gentlemen. Their absence no doubt will be felt, but I am confident that there will be other members of this House who will be prepared to step in and either extend an interest that they have had or take a special interest in this area. I look forward to working closely with the Committee in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill and the Northern Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill 1978, which I shall introduce shortly, are in the same form as Bills which were introduced into the House last year but which lapsed upon the dissolution of the House. The purpose of the Bills is to permit the making of regulations fixing fees to be charged in the supreme courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. In the past, fees have been fixed either by rules of court or by ordinance. The previous Labor Government had a policy that, generally speaking, court fees should not be charged. In pursuance of that policy the judges of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory supreme courts amended the rules of each court to abolish most fees in those courts. This Government believes that court fees should be imposed, so that those who have recourse to the courts will contribute towards their cost. When this matter was raised with the judges, the Australian Capital Territory judges pointed out, quite properly, that the question of court fees appeared to have taken on some political significance because of the difference of view between the previous Labor Government and this Government, and that it may therefore be more appropriate for fees to be imposed by the Executive Government. The Government respects the position of the Territory judges in not wishing to be involved in a matter of this kind that might be the subject of political difference. Accordingly, the present Bills are brought in. 
I would add that the Federal Court of Australia Act and the Family Law Act each empowers the making of regulations to provide for fees payable in respect of proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia and in the Family Court of Australia and other courts exercising jurisdiction under the Family Law Act. The proposed amendments to the Territory supreme court Acts therefore bring them into line with the other courts created by the Parliament in this respect. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a companion measure to the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill 1978 which I have just introduced and fulfils the same functions as I outlined in my second reading speech for that Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. It refers to a very important matter affecting Aboriginals and, I might also say, Australians generally, that is, the excessive consumption of alcohol. The report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, of which the honourable member for Dundas was  Chairman  in the last Parliament, drew attention to the need for action on a number of fronts in the Northern Territory and right across Australia. Those matters have been examined by myself and my colleagues, the Minister for Health, the Minister for the Northern Territory and the Minister for Education. We are formulating overall policy in relation to the recommendations made by that Standing Committee. 
One matter that I can mention to the House now and inform the honourable gentleman about is the purchase of the border store at Oenpelli by the Gunbalanya Council, an allAboriginal council of the people living at Oenpelli. The interim report of the Standing Committee drew attention to the need for action to be taken to limit the sales of liquor from that outlet. The Fox report drew attention to the same need in its uranium environmental inquiry. As a result of those two recommendations, I instituted action which has now led to the agreement to purchase the border store in Arnhem Land for the Gunbalanya Council. The purchase price was $125,000 plus the value of stock on hand at the time of takeover. Management will be in the hands of the Aboriginal Council. Of course, it will be assisted by whatever support is necessary from the white population. But I am quite sure that in the fulfilment of the Government's commitment to a policy of self-management and satisfying the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee and the Fox inquiry report this action will be seen as of lasting benefit for the Aboriginal people. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill which was introduced in the last Parliament, but lapsed on its dissolution, will amend the Evidence Act 1905 to provide for business records to be admitted as evidence of the matters contained in them in proceedings before the High Court, the Federal Court of Australia and other federal courts on a uniform basis. Under the present law, the admissibility of such records depends on the law of the State in which the court sits. Laws of evidence relating to the admissibility of business records vary from State to State, so that the law to be applied in particular proceedings in, say, the Federal Court of Australia under the Trade Practices Act depends on the State in which the proceedings are heard. A change of venue or an adjournment of proceedings from one State to another may therefore result in a change in the applicable law, and even in evidence being rejected which would have been admissible had the proceedings confined in the original State. 
The Swanson Committee that reported on the Trade Practices Act therefore recommended that that Act should be amended to allow business records to be admitted in evidence, along the lines of the recommendations made on the subject by the New South Wales Law Reform Commission. Provisions for this purpose were at first included in the Trade Practices Bill introduced into the Parliament in February last year. The Government subsequently decided that it would be desirable to apply such provisions generally to proceedings in federal courts. They were then removed from that Bill. Under the present Bill the provisions for business records to be admitted as evidence will apply to all proceedings before the High Court and federal courts. 
The Bill mirrors very closely provisions contained in the New South Wales Evidence Act following an amendment to that Act in 1 976 to give effect to the report of the New South Wales Law Reform Commission. In the absence of a special statutory provision, business records are not generally admissible in a legal proceeding to prove matters which are recorded in them. This exclusion results from the fact that business records, like other written material, are regarded as hearsay evidence. The rule against hearsay evidence applies to exclude evidence which is not within the actual knowledge of the witness. As a general rule, the exclusion of hearsay evidence is clearly based on a sound principle. To quote from a classic statement of that principle, 'hearsay evidence ... is not the best evidence, and is not delivered on oath. The truthfulness and accuracy of the person whose words are spoken by another witness cannot be tested by cross-examination and the light which his demeanour would throw on his testimony is lost '. 
The admissibility of business records under the Bill is not intended to detract from the value accorded to oral evidence given on oath in court. Where evidence is given in person the worth of that evidence can be properly assessed by crossexamination and in the light of the manner and conduct of the person giving it. It could be expected that, where practicable, oral evidence will continue to be given on matters of importance and on matters which are likely to be the subject of dispute, notwithstanding that evidence of those matters could also be admitted in the form of a business record. 
There are, however, occasions when evidence, which is strictly hearsay evidence, should be admissible. In certain circumstances hearsay evidence may be the best or only evidence available on a particular matter. Business records are likely to be created in circumstances which will often make them the most reliable record of the facts contained in them. They are, for example, likely to be created at the time of or soon after the occurrence of events recorded in them when there is a clear recollection of those events. Furthermore, where a record is maintained in the course of a business there is generally no incentive to misrepresent the matters contained in the record. The need to provide a means of enabling such records to be used in evidence in legal proceedings arises, in many cases, because of the difficulty in locating or identifying the person who made the relevant record. In other cases the expense or delay involved in calling witnesses to give evidence in person on a minor or noncontentious matter could be avoided by relying on a business record which contains evidence of that matter 
The term 'business records' is intended to cover a wide range of documents. Documents created by government in the course of administration, as well as those created by business in the commercial sense, are included. The records, which will be admissible under the Bill, will include documentary records such as books, plans, paper and the like, and records obtainable by mechanical devices, such as computers. The Bill contains certain restrictions on the admissibility of business records designed to ensure that a party against whom such records are sought to be used as evidence is not unfairly prejudiced. A wide discretion is given to a court to exclude evidence, otherwise admissible under the Bill, where its admission would be unfair to a party to the proceedings. The Bill provides for the court to take account of all the circumstances from which an inference can reasonably be drawn as to the accuracy or otherwise of the statement and evidence of the credibility of the maker of the statement is admissible to the same extent as it would be if the person had been called as a witness. As well there are special safeguards regarding the use of business records in a criminal proceeding. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill follows the broad lines of the Bill of the same title which was introduced last year but lapsed at the end of the Thirtieth Parliament. That Bill was referred by the Senate to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which furnished a useful and constructive report to the Senate on 26 April 1977. The Government reconsidered the Bill in the light of the Committee's report and the present Bill takes into account the recommendations of the Committee. The Bill is directed to meeting two problems that have arisen in Australia and elsewhere in recent years. Thus, the first objective of the Bill is to prohibit persons preparing for or engaging in incursions into foreign countries. The second is to prohibit the recruiting in Australia of persons to serve in armed forces in a foreign country. 
As to the first- prohibition of foreign incursionstwice in recent years persons from Australia have carried out incursions overseas. The Government takes the view that circumstances in overseas countries and Australia make possible the repetition of these activities. The Government believes that it should do what it can by legislative means to discourage them. While under existing law- provided information is obtained early enough- some limited action can be taken to prevent these activities achieving their ultimate objective, past events have shown that existing law is not adequate. In all the circumstances, including the need to preserve international relations, there is a need for legislation to deal specifically with the problem, including preparations in Australia for these activities. 
To this end, clause 6 will prohibit incursions into foreign countries for the purpose of engaging in hostile activities. This clause will apply to Australian citizens, persons ordinarily resident in 
Australia and persons who at any time during the period of one year immediately preceding the commission of the offence were present in Australia for a purpose connected with the offence. In regard to the last category of persons I mention that persons meeting this description participated in previous incursion episodes. Clause 6 refers to hostile activities against governments and the term 'government' is defined in clause 3 of the present Bill to mean, in relation to a foreign country, the government recognised by the government of Australia as the lawful government of that foreign country. The term was not defined in the earlier Bill and the report of the Committee on that Bill recommended that it should be defined but did not indicate the form of the definition. 
The alternative to defining 'government' as the government recognized by Australia as the lawful government would have been to define it in effect as the de facto government of the particular country. But it must be noted that clause 6 in effect distinguishes between the would-be overthrowers of a regime and the supporters of a regime. The first are prohibited; the second are not. Such a distinction could not be justified in relation to a regime that Australia had declined to recognise as lawful. 
Further, if such an approach had been adopted, the lawfulness or unlawfulness under the legislation of activities could fluctuate from week to week as the de facto control of a particular region changed. Finally, it will be a matter of public knowledge whether a government is recognised by Australia as the lawful government of a country and there would thus, under the approach used in the Bill, be certainly in the application of the law. For these reasons, the Government chose the definition of 'government' appearing in the Bill. 
Clause 7 prohibits preparations for incursions into foreign countries. In relation to acts done in Australia, the clause applies to all persons; in the case of acts done outside Australia, the clause applies to the same persons as clause 6. Clause 8 prohibits the recruiting of persons to join organisations engaged in hostile activities against foreign governments. 
The seriousness with which the Australian Government regards these matters is reflected in the heavy penalties provided for breaches of these provisions. Thus, the penalty for a breach of clause 6 will be 14 years imprisonment. The penalty for making preparations for these acts of terrorism will be 10 years. It should be noted that the consent of the Attorney-General will be required for any prosecution for a breach of the Act. 
As to the second main purpose- prohibition of recruiting- many countries including Australia have been concerned by the recruiting of, or attempts to recruit, persons in their territory for service as mercenaries in foreign forces. A United Kingdom statute, the Foreign Enlistment Act, in force since 1870 and applicable to the British dominions, dealt with enlistment by British subjects in foreign forces but in terms inappropriate in today's circumstances. The United Kingdom Government established a Committee of Privy Counsellors under the chairmanship of Lord Diplock to examine the problem. The Committee recommended the abolition of the offence of enlisting while abroad as a mercenary and of leaving the United Kingdom in order to do so. The reasons given by the Committee for this view were: 
First, for reasons we have given, we do not think it practicable or just to try to define an offence of enlisting as a mercenary in such a way that guilt would depend upon proof by the prosecution of a particular motive as actuating the accused to do so. Secondly, a penal prohibition sought to be imposed by the State upon what an individual does abroad involves a restriction on the liberty of the individual which we think can only be justified on compelling grounds of public interest. Thirdly, the practical difficulties of proving such an offence would mean that there could be very few successful prosecutions; and the chances of convicting the accused would depend not so much on his actual guilt as on his exceptional bad luck in there being available to the prosecution in his case sufficient evidence to convict him on his trial in this country. 
The United Kingdom Committee, however, recommended new legislation to prohibit recruitment of persons to take up service as mercenaries abroad, including prohibition of offers of employment as a mercenary, publishing information as to how or where to apply for such employment or to reach the place where it is available, or making any payment or taking part in any arrangement to enable or assist a person to do so. The law in the United States prohibits recruitment of any persons as mercenaries within the United States but does not prohibit a citizen or other person in the United States leaving the country to enlist in a foreign military service. 
Independently of the United Kingdom inquiry, the Australian Government had conducted its own examination which produced the same broad conclusion as the Diplock Committee, namely, that it was not appropriate to attempt to prohibit enlistment outside Australia or to regulate overseas military activities of Australians except incursion activities dealt with under clause 6- but it was desirable to control recruitment within Australia of mercenaries for service in foreign forces. To implement this conclusion, clause 9 of the Bill will make it an offence for a person to recruit, advertise in respect of recruiting, facilitate or promote recruitment, of another person to serve in or with an armed force in a foreign country, whether government, insurgent or otherwise. 
In order to meet circumstances where it is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia to permit the recruitment in Australia of persons to serve in particular armed forces, the Minister will be authorised to exempt recruitment for such forces. However, the legislation will not prevent an Australian from going overseas and enlisting in armed forces in another country. The Government recognises that occasions will arise where persons will wish to enlist and serve in the armed forces of another country because of a deeply held personal belief. To prohibit this generally would be an infringement of individual freedom. 
The report of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs recommended that the Bill be amended to ensure that persons serving with the armed forces of a government or a force approved by the Minister pursuant to sub-clause 9 (2) should not be liable to penalty for acts done during the course of their service with those forces. Sub-clause 6(4) was accordingly included in the present Bill to meet the point raised by the Committee. The Government believes that the addition of this provision adequately deals with the matters raised by the Committee in this connection. A further recommendation of the Committee was that the term 'advertisement' in paragraphs 9 ( 1 ) (b) and (c) should be defined to include items published as news items but which were in fact published pursuant to some contractual or commercial arrangement. Sub-clause 9(5) has accordingly been added in the present Bill to deal with the point made by the Committee. 
As the Committee pointed out, in the debate on the earlier Bill in another place the Government indicated that it would amend that Bill to ensure that an instrument under sub-clause 9 (2) should be subject to the same requirements as a regulation as regards scrutiny by both Houses. The Committee indicated this was a satisfactory 'solution. Sub-clause 9 (4) of the present Bill achieves the result recommended by the Committee. The Committee indicated its disapproval of the inclusion of provisions in the earlier Bill enabling the Attorney-General to delegate his function of consenting to proceedings for commitment of a person for trial on indictment for an offence against the Act. The Government in the debate on the earlier Bill in another place indicated its preparedness to accept an amendment to this effect. Clause 10, as now expressed, meets the Committee's recommendation. 
I believe that the House is indebted to the Committee for its thorough examination of this measure. The Bill, as now presented, accords with the Committee's recommendations. It represents a significant contribution to the Government's overall objective of dealing with all manifestations of terrorism and other resorts to violence whether in Australia or in other parts of the world. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Northern Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill 1978, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  referred to the payment of legal fees by persons who are receiving legal aid. As the honourable gentleman indicated, that matter was discussed in the other place. I repeat what  Senator Durack  stated as a general principle. He said: 
We believe that people's inability to meet court fees is a matter to be taken into account when looking at legal aid generally. Court fees are usually a very minute proportion of the total cost of litigation. If people are within the guidelines for legal aid eligibility, court fees are not charged. In our view it is proper that those litigants who can afford it should make some payment towards the general cost of the administration of justice. 
It is worth repeating that statement of general principle which sets out the Government's position.  Senator Durack  referred to the Family Court. As he pointed out, fees payable in the Family Court are not paid by those who receive legal aid in that Court. There is a specific exemption. It is true, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith pointed out, that  Senator Durack  assumed that the general principle would apply with regard to other courts. What he said, which I have just indicated to the House, is enough to cover the point made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. From my own experience in handling legal aid matters I know that the capacity of an applicant for legal aid to pay court fees, as small as they are in comparison to solicitor's and counsel's costs, is taken into account in assessing his eligibility for legal aid and whether he is in a position to make any contribution towards the legal service provided. But, as I have indicated, there is a specific provision with regard to the Family Court that a person receiving legal aid does not pay court fees. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question because there has been some talk publicly about the Government intending to limit the moneys payable to the Northern Land Council and, through the Council, to Aboriginals in the Northern Territory for the rnining of the Ranger deposit. There are no proposals before the Government to limit compensation. I think what has been happening has been misunderstood. Under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act there is a requirement that before mining can commence under the Atomic Energy Act or under the Northern Territory mining ordinances an agreement has to be entered into with the Northern Land Council. By reason of the decisions of the Government, mining of the Ranger deposit will be under the Atomic Energy Act. Therefore, it is necessary for the Commonwealth to reach an agreement with the Land Council. I also remind the House that the Commonwealth is a joint venturer in the Ranger deposit so what must occur is that the Commonwealth will negotiate with the Northern Land Council to reach agreement on terms and conditions including the payment of moneys before mining can proceed. The Land Council at a meeting with officers back in I think, November tendered a draft agreement. That was its negotiating position at that time. The Government has had under consideration since then what its response will be. The latest advice I have from the Land Council is that it is anxious to resume negotiations. Because of that the Commonwealth will be determining what position it will take at the negotiating table. 
I am aware of the situation to which the honourable gentleman refers. Of course it deals with State legislation in different areas- the operation of the State mining laws, laws dealing with Aboriginal reserves and also the establishment of an Aboriginal Lands Trust in Western Australia. Under that legislation the Lands Trust has the responsibility for ascertaining and expressing the wishes of the local people. So far as I know, the Lands Trust has had discussions with the Oombulgurri people and also, I understand, a month or so ago had some discussions with the Premier of Western Australia. I do not know the outcome of those discussions or what further action is being taken. It is a matter exclusively within the jurisdiction of the State Government operating under its own legislation. 
The honourable member's question deals with the action announced yesterday by the Queensland Government to take over administration of Mornington Island and the Aurukun Aboriginal communities from the Uniting Church in Australia. I was advised of the action by the Church. I am concerned if this action is being taken against the wishes of the communities in both those places. This morning I received a telegram from the  chairman  and council at Mornington Island which states: 
Council and community not consulted on Government take-over. What is happening? Please help us. 
I have also received a request from the Uniting Church that I hold urgent discussions with it. I shall be seeing a deputation tomorrow. The Uniting Church has a long and distinguished record in the administration of Aboriginal communities in northern Australia, and also in other parts of Australia, pursuing modern policies of self-management so that Aboriginals may take charge of their own affairs and make decisions for themselves. The Government and I are watching the situation very closely and we will examine what needs to be done to preserve the interests of Aboriginals in these places. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964 1 present the annual report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to sub-section 12D of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1 973 I present the Academic Salaries Tribunal 1977 Review. 
-Yesterday in this House I answered a question asked by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  In my answer I made it quite clear that the Commonwealth Government was extremely concerned at what was proposed by the Queensland Government in moving to take over from the Uniting Church in Australia the administration of the Aboriginal communities at Mornington Island and Aurukun. In that answer I pointed out that the Commonwealth is concerned to ensure that policies of self-management are pursued throughout Australia because through those policies Aboriginals, wherever they are, are enabled to live in freedom and to have independence in a way in which they can manage and control their own affairs like any other citizen of Australia. That is at the heart of our policy. That is what was expressed in the Aboriginal affairs policy statement of the Liberal and National Country parties which was published in November 1975. Also in that statement we set out quite clearly our concept of Australia as a multi-cultural society as it applies to Aboriginals: 
We recognise the fundamental right of Aborigines to retain their racial identity and traditional lifestyle or, where desired, to adopt partially or wholly a European lifestyle. 
That concept, coupled with the policy of selfmanagement which we are actively pursuing, is at the heart of Commonwealth Government policy today. That policy is reflected in a number of statements made by myself and by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and by references in the last policy speech. It was referred to in the Speech of the Governor-General on the occasion of the opening of the Thirty-first Parliament on 2 1 February this year. I quote from that Speech: 
Australia is a multi-cultural society and my Government is concerned that all groups have the opportunity to enrich their identity and develop their talents to the full. 
Emphasis will be given to assisting Aboriginals to become more self-sufficient and acquire the skills to manage their own affairs. 
I heard of the proposed takeover by the Queensland Government from the Uniting Church itself. An expression of immediate concern was relayed to me. My regional office in Brisbane was in touch with my office immediately. I took steps straight away to invite representatives of the Church to come to Canberra and discuss the matter with me. I asked them to inform me of the background to the takeover, of their attitude towards it and what they saw as their future role with respect to these two Aboriginal communities. 
I saw four representatives today from the Church in Queensland and from the National Assembly. The discussion was very helpful and worth while. I said yesterday in answer to a question that the Uniting Church in Australia, the Presbyterian Church before it and the Methodist Church have a long and distinguished history of activity in Aboriginal communities throughout Australia. It is some 70 years or more since the Church first went to the Aurukun and Mornington Island regions of the Gulf of Carpentaria. It needs to be realised that the missionary role of the church has changed quite dramatically in recent years. This applies not only to the Uniting Church but also to all other denominations which are active in the area. They have for some years been pursuing the policy of selfmanagement. I have been to communities where the Anglican Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Uniting Church and other denominations are active. This policy of selfmanagement is being actively pursued by the church. The church is still there in its spiritual role. It is providing material resources to enable the people in those communities to manage more effectively their own affairs. The Commonwealth has been very pleased to provide financial support to the churches, together with the financial support it gives directly to Aboriginal communities in fulfilment of that policy. 
Let me very quickly outline the position of the Commonwealth in Aboriginal affairs today. Following the 1967 referendum, legislation was passed by the Commonwealth authorising it to enter into agreements with the States for the Commonwealth to take over the administration of Aboriginal affairs, particularly with regard to policy planning and co-ordination. All States, except Queensland, have entered into an arrangement. Queensland chose to stand out. It chose to administer Aboriginal affairs in that State through the State Government. Nevertheless the Commonwealth provides to the State Government a considerable sum of money- it is many millions of dollars- for its programs in Aboriginal affairs. This money is provided parallel to the funds which the Commonwealth provides directly to Aboriginal organisations in fulfilment of the policy of self-management and self-sufficiency. In Queensland the legislation which controls Aboriginal reserves is different from the legislation affecting Aboriginal land in all other States and in the Northern Territory. 
As I see the position, when we speak of selfmanagement we are really contrasting that with government administration of people who live on reserves. That is the fundamental question at issue over the proposed takeover of Mornington Island and Aurukum. I do not see that, simply because land is reserved or set aside for the benefit of Aboriginals, governments today must administer and manage the lives of the people who live on that land. So our policies and those of the Uniting Church have the fundamental emphasis on self-management and self-sufficiency. 
The reference I made about the recognition of the fundamental rights of Aborigines to retain their racial identity and traditional lifestyle also affects another situation at Aurukun. I refer to the decentralised groups which have gone out to their tribal land on the reserve to live a tribal life to the extent that they wish to do so but which also take advantage of modern society to the extent that they wish to do so. Of course health care, education and other needed resources must be taken to those decentralised groups so that they can maintain a healthy and fulfilling life. 
I was concerned to know immediately the wishes of the people at those two places. I have not been able to get in touch with them directly. Amongst the great sheaf of telegrams I have received- it literally is a sheaf- supporting the Aboriginal people is one from Mornington Island. I quoted from it at Question Time yesterday. It was from the  chairman  and council at Mornington Island and stated: 
Council and community not consulted on government takeover. What is happening? Please help us. 
The Uniting Church, as the House would expect, has been seeking the wishes of the people at both places, but more particularly at Aurukun, because this is where the issue centres. It was rather a surprise that Mornington Island was coupled in the takeover with Aurukun. I was provided, at the discussions I had today with the Church representatives, with a copy of a letter dated 1 8 November from the Aurukun Council which is led by Donald Peinkinna and others. I recognise a number of the names as people I met when I was in Aurukun in January 1976. The letter, addressed to  Mr J.  C. Hooper, Division of World Mission, Uniting Church in Australia at Brisbane stated: 
We, the undersigned members of the Aurukun Community Council, have, after exhaustive talks with the members of the community of Aurukun, found that it is the people's wish to remain under the Administration of the Uniting Church of Australia. 
We would therefore appreciate it if you would pass this to the Synod of North Queensland, along with our thanks for their support. We look forward to working together in the future. 
I am advised that that communication, after a resolution by the Synod, was notified to the Queensland Government in January of this year. The Church received no further communication until Reverend Professor Busch was approached on Friday of last week to meet with the Queensland Minister on Monday afternoon. He had no idea of what the meeting was to be about. When he met the Queensland Minister he was told of the intended takeover. He was handed a letter which I am authorised by the Church leaders to refer to. With the leave of the House, I seek to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

OFFICE OF THE MINISTER FOR ABORIGINAL AND ISLAND AFFAIRS 
10 March 1978 
The Reverend Professor R. A. Busch, Moderator, 
The Uniting Church in Australia, Queensland Synod, Brisbane, Queensland 4000 
Dear Reverend  Sir, 
I have to advise that Cabinet has considered the overall position relative to Mornington Island and Aurukun Aboriginal Communities and to inform you of the following decisions by Cabinet: 
The Uniting Church be informed that at the expiry of the current advance payment period, viz 3 1 March 1 978, the Government will no longer continue to provide subsidy support to the Church for management of Aurukun; and Mornington Island and the Aboriginal Councils be similarly advised. 
The Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement takes steps forthwith to provide an effective management service at each of the Communities and assumes total responsibility for the material wellbeing of the people from that date on a similar basis to other Aboriginal communities in the State. 
The Uniting Church be informed that the transfer of management authority will be on the basis of 'walk in, walk out' without capital compensation by the State and without cash exchange either way, except for suitable retail stock in trade which, if required, will be purchased by the Department at actual landed costs at Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
Members of the Church staff serving at each centre be offered positions within the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement provided they are considered suitable and acceptable to the Director, but that such positions be not necessarily at Mornington Island or Aurukun nor with Public Service rank equivalent to their status within the Church staff structure. 
Sole responsibility devolves on the Church to administer spiritual needs of residents; and land considered suitable by the Director be set aside on the Reserve for permanent use of the Church as a place of worship and a residence for the clergy, noting that an existing place of worship and a place of residence may be made available to the Church free of charge. 
I would appreciate your co-operation and that of your Church organisation in effecting the change-over a soon as possible and in the best interests of the Aboriginal Communities. 
Yours sincerely (Signed) CHARLES PORTER 
I will quickly summarise this letter from  Mr Charles  Porter, the Queensland Minister, to the Reverend Professor R. A. Busch. 
That may well be correct. It is addressed as I read it. The letter advises that Cabinet has considered the overall position relative to the Mornington Island and Aurukun Aboriginal communities and states the decision by Cabinet. I shall paraphrase the five points set out. The letter states, firstly, that all supporting funds would be withdrawn from the Church as from 3 1 March 1978; secondly, that the Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement would be taking steps forthwith to provide effective management service at each of the communities and to assume total responsibility for the material well-being of the people; thirdly, that the Uniting Church would be informed that the transfer of management authority will be on the basis of walk in, walk out' without capital compensation by the State and without cash exchange either way except for suitable retail stock in trade which, if required, would be purchased by the Department at actual landed costs at Aurukun and Mornington Island. I am advised that that stock belongs to an Aboriginal incorporated body. The letter states, fourthly, that members of the Church staff serving at each centre would be offered positions within the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement provided they are considered suitable and acceptable to the Director but that such positions would not necessarily be at Mornington Island or Aurukun or with Public Service rank equivalent to their status within the Church and, fifthly, that sole responsibility would devolve on the Church for the spiritual needs of the residents. 
Against that background, I think the House can understand the concern of this Government. Not only did I invite Church representatives to meet with me immediately but also I invited Aboriginal representatives from both Mornington Island and Aurukun to travel to Canberra at the Commonwealth's expense to meet with me and discuss the situation. I expect them to arrive in Canberra tomorrow night and to see me on Friday. 
I shall see them and ascertain their views and then I could certainly consider that matter. The other matter to which the Government has directed its attention is an examination of the full background of this matter and an assessment of what future action it might need to take. That action might follow the course of providing additional financial support to Aboriginal groups and communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island as well as to the Church. It may require going so far as this Parliament passing legislation to protect the interests of Aboriginals. The Commonwealth Government is examining that. The Commonwealth Government would not like to have to go that far but, if necessary, it would be prepared to do so. I think that indicates clearly the policies which the Commonwealth Government is pursuing, the concern with which it approaches this subject and the note of urgency which I seek to inject into the whole matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. I am aware of the prosecutions in the Special Federal Court in Sydney that were launched against both  Mrs Patricia  Moylan and  Mr Frank  Christopher Lawrence to which the honourable gentleman referred. It is a fact that both cases relate to prosecutions concerned with the importation of cannabis. The other matters to which the honourable gentleman has referred are of a serious nature and I shall have them referred to the Attorney-General and report the details to the honourable gentleman just as soon as I can. 
I think the honourable gentleman should wait until the figures are announced tomorrow at 12 noon. 
For the information of the honourable members I present the 1977 report of the South Australian Local Government Grants Commission on financial assistance for local government in that State. Due to the limited number available, copies of this report have been placed in the Table Office, and the Parliamentary Library. The determinations on allocations to local government authorities for 1977-78 made in this report have already been made available to honourable members from South Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This direction was given by the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  in a letter of 27 May 1975 to the  Chairman  of the Commission, and a summary of it appears on page 4 of the Commission's 1974-7S annual report. The actual terms of the direction are as follows: 
Since land for housing purposes can be obtained through Housing Associations and the Housing and Personal Loans Fund administered by the Aboriginal Loans Commission, the Land Fund should not as a general rule provide land for purely housing purposes. Similarly, land in urban areas can in some cases be acquired through the above sources and through Aboriginal Hostels Ltd. For this reason and because provision of urban land may prove a substantial drain on the resources of the Land Fund, I do not wish your Commission to proceed with any purchases of land within the metropolitan area of any capital city except after consultation with me, through my Department as to the most appropriate source of funding for such purchase. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
See answers ( 1 ) and (2). 
The Commonwealth Government will retain responsibility for policy planning and co-ordination in Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory, as it will in those States where agreements were negotiated for the transfer of these responsibilities to the Commonwealth Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) No officer from my Department or any authority under my control had occasion to travel from their home base to another location in order to provide services in connection with Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. 
-The matter referred to by the honourable member obviously occurred some time ago, if it did occur. I do not recall any such communication. I will certainly check the files and let the honourable gentleman know the position. 
-Some time ago-I cannot remember precisely when- I received a letter from the Minister concerned regarding the possibility of the Government looking at the provisions to which the honourable gentleman referred. I noticed recent public comment by the Premier of Western Australia that he would be consulting with the Federal Government when his Government had decided what steps it would take. I have no doubt that, pursuant to the provisions of the legislation to which the honourable gentleman referred, the State Premier will be consulting with the Federal Government or directly with me. 
A meeting was held in my office on 14 March between me and certain senior officers. It concerned not only the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission but also a number of other aspects of the administration of my Department. Obviously those matters are matters between me and the Department in the ordinary course of administration and in the exercise of my responsibilities. As I have said publicly, there are no proposals and at that time there were no proposals before the Government for the abolition of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. For some time the role of the Land Fund Commission has been under review. 
At the meeting to which the honourable gentleman referred discussions were held concerning the possible relationship of the Land Fund Commission to the Government's policy commitment to establish an Aboriginal entitlement capital account as well as an Aboriginal entitlement revenue account. Consideration was given and is being given to a way in which the two factors could be brought together so as to maintain the Government's commitment to purchases for Aboriginals through the Land Fund Commission and the Government's commitment in its policy statement to recognising the past dispossession and dispersal of Aborigines by the establishment of such a capital account. I might say for the honourable gentleman's information that in the estimates for the next financial year provision is to be made for appropriations to enable the Land Fund Commission to make purchases in all States. 
There seems to be an accelerating interest in Aboriginal affairs on the part of the Opposition. I inform the honourable gentleman that when he was away from this House in the last Parliament a number of questions were directed to me on this matter. I think the then Leader of the Opposition asked me a number of questions concerning a property known as Archer River and some other land at Murray Upper and Cardwell. It is about those properties and the circumstances surrounding the approach by the Land Fund Commission to purchase them that the honourable gentlemen has asked his question. The properties at Murray Upper and bardwell were purchased. The purchases were completed by the Land Fund Commission. One was a leasehold property and the other freehold. The property at Archer River was a pastoral property. Transfer of that lease is subject to the consent of the State Minister. I had some discussions with the State Minister. As a result, it became clear that the State Government intended, as I recall, to establish a national park over a large part of the Archer River lease. Therefore, the purposes for which the Land Fund Commission was considering the acquisition of the property would have been frustrated. I suggest that the honourable member look in  Hansard  at the questions that were asked and the answers that were given with respect to this matter in the last Parliament. 
Instructions which I give to my officers are confidential matters in the ordinary course of government. However, I will say this: I asked my Department to carry on the review of the future role of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission, which had been under way since 1976. It was not in any way a recent review; it had been in progress for some time past. When that review is completed its findings will be put before me and I shall decide what I shall put to Cabinet with respect to the future long term role of the Commission. That decision will be made at some time in the future. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes- in a Press release dated 23 September 1977 I proposed that a parliamentary committee should review the Family Law Act in 1978 to determine whether any changes to the broad principles of the Act should be made. 
No. 
No-in a Press release dated 20 February 1978, I repeated my hope that a parliamentary committee would be established later this year to review the Family Law Act. 1 am currently considering details of a recommendation that I propose to put to the Government concerning the matter, he establishment of the committee is ultimately for Parliament itself to determine. 
Department of Transport: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence (Question No. 252) 
-The Attorney-General has provided the answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Attorney-General to question No. 1359  (Hansard.  8 November 1977, page 3 146). 
I am very glad that the honourable member, who is  chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, should ask a question about the National Aboriginal Conference today because we have in the public gallery the 35 members of the first National Aboriginal Conference. 
The honourable gentleman obviously has a copy of a minute of a meeting I held with officers. There is every reason why I should initiate consideration of particular points of view which may in the long run provide for the Aboriginal and Islander people a much more effective use and application of the funds made available by government to the Land Fund Commission. I should have thought that from the honourable gentleman's own experience in government he would know that Ministers do have ideas of thenown, which if implemented can be of benefit to the Australian people. A review is going on at the moment, and when my Department has completed that review, including a consideration of the ideas that I have put forward, I will make a decision on what should be put to Cabinet. 
I do not know what the honourable gentleman thinks he is on to. I would have thought that it was quite in order for a Minister to request his Department to prepare a Cabinet submission. When I see it I may disagree with what the Department has provided to me. I might ask my officers to modify it and change it. I do not know what the final form will be. Obviously, the honourable gentleman has a copy of a handwritten minute of a meeting that was held in my office. Of course, that is a confidential document- a stolen document which the honourable gentleman is quite prepared to receive. We know the quality of receivers of stolen documents. 
Leave not granted. 
Leave not granted. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read second time. 
This Bill will guarantee the right of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island communities on Aboriginal and Island reserves in Queensland to manage their own affairs. Its provisions are all directed to ensuring that, if the communities have chosen not to be administered by officials of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, they will not have official management foisted upon them. If communities now managed and controlled by government officials consider that they are ready for self-management and are prepared to take responsibility for community affairs as reserve communities elsewhere in Australia have done, they may apply to have the legislation cover their reserves. 
This legislation responds directly and positively to the expressed wishes of the Aboriginal people at Aurukun and Mornington Island that the Commonwealth Government prevent the takeover by the Queensland Government from the Uniting Church of management of the two communities. It is carefully designed to achieve that result within the constitutional power of the 
Commonwealth, given by the 1967 referendum, to make special laws for the people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary. 
Aurukun had been administered by the Church and its predecessors under Queensland legislation since 1904 and Mornington Island since 1914. The possibility of a Queensland Government takeover at Aurukun had been discussed with the Church last year and representatives of the Church had then discussed the matter at length with the Aboriginal community. The consensus view of the community was that the Church should remain at Aurukun. The Church accordingly informed the Queensland Minister at the end of December that it could enter into negotiations about the transfer of responsibility only on the basis that it would abide by the expressed will of the Aurukun community, and that it would need to be assured that the Queensland Government accepted responsibility to maintain essential services to those groups wishing to live and work in their tribal lands on the reserve and that the continuing role of the Church within the community would be defined to the satisfaction of the Church. 
The Queensland Minister, on 13 March, handed to the Moderator of the Queensland Synod of the Uniting Church in Queensland, a letter informing him of the Cabinet's decision to cease support for the Church's administration on 3 1 March and have the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement assume complete responsibility for the management and wellbeing of the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities from that date. The Queensland Government had not discussed with the Church a possible takeover of responsibility for the Mornington Island community. There had been rumours that such a takeover was being considered and, because I was advised that the rumours were causing uncertainty within the community, I wrote to the Queensland Minister,  Mr Porter,  inquiring about these rumours on 10 February. He replied on 20 February but did not indicate whether or not a takeover was planned. Then, as I have said, on 13 March the Queensland Government acted. I was informed of the Queensland Government's decisions by the Uniting Church and my Brisbane officers. I at once consulted with representatives of the Uniting Church and of the two communities. I was satisfied that the communities strongly opposed the Government decision and that there had been no prior consultation with the communities. 
The Commonwealth Government considered my report on 22 March and decided that legislation should be prepared to ensure that the expressed wishes of the communities were not overridden. It also decided that attempts should be made to dissuade the Queensland Government from proceeding with its decision and to persuade it to amend its legislation applying to Aboriginals and Islanders. Accordingly, my colleague,  Mr Nixon,  and I went to Brisbane on 29 March to discuss the matter with Queensland Ministers. At that meeting, a conditional agreement was reached to explore with both the Church and the Aboriginal communities the possibility of a temporary joint management arrangement in the two communities between the State Department and the Church. This agreement was expressly subject to acceptance by the Church and the Aboriginal communities as stated in the joint statement issued by the Ministers who attended the meeting, including the Queensland Premier and the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs. 
When I visited Aurukun on 30 March and Mornington Island on 1 April to explain the position of the Commonwealth and to listen to their views, the Councils and the people of the two communities made it absolutely clear to me that they did not wish to have the Queensland Department manage their communities and believed that any joint management arrangement was undesirable and unworkable, and they were opposed to it. They are very conscious of the differences of policy approach between the Uniting Church and the Commonwealth on the one hand, and the Queensland Government on the other, and considered that they could not serve two masters. They indicated that the Church staff understand and support their aspirations and in particular their wishes to manage community affairs themselves and to be free to live where they choose on the reserve and to develop their own outstation communities. They are well aware that the Queensland Government Ministers have expressed opposition to the movement of groups out of Aurukun over the past few years. Many have visited or lived on reserve communities managed by the Queensland Department or talked to residents of those communities and they expressed misgivings about the future of their communities under direct State departmental administration. 
Speakers at meetings in both places expressed their appreciation of Commonwealth Government support for community initiatives and their strong wish that they be permitted to continue to develop their communities in their own style, with the advice and help of the Church and the financial support of the Commonwealth Government. My experience paralleled that of the honourable member for Leichhardt,  Mr David  Thomson, and a Government members group led by the honourable member for Petrie  Mr John  Hodges and comprising the honourable member for Bowman,  Mr David  Jull, and Senators Bonner, Martin and Knight, who had visited the two communities before me.  Mr Hodges  had suggested the visit to me and I was pleased to respond to what, together with  Mr Thomson's  visit, proved to be an invaluable contribution to the Commonwealth's efforts to stand by the communities. The Queensland Premier is reported to have said recently that: 
The people on the missions in Queensland live their own lives. They make all the decisions. We, the Government, don't. 
If this were so, there would be no need for the State Department to take over the official management of the two communities, nor would there be any need to introduce this Bill. The Bill seeks to ensure that the Aboriginal people living on reserves in Queensland should be, to quote the 1975 Aboriginal Affairs Policy Statement of the Liberal and National Country Parties, 'as free as other Australians to determine their own varied futures'. 
In introducing this legislation, the Government seeks only to extend Aboriginal management of their own community affairs. The Commonwealth is not enlarging its own powers; it is not in any sense taking over the reserves itself, but is only allowing the communities themselves to exercise local responsibility. The Commonwealth has not in any other State taken over the reserves established under State law but applies its policies of self-management to communities living on those reserves. Elsewhere in Australia, Aboriginal communities have for years been able to manage their local affairs if they wished. Only in Queensland is there legislation that gives government officials power to control, manage and direct communities on reserves. 
The Queensland legislation- the Aborigines Act and the Torres Strait Islanders Act and the regulations and by-laws made under themprovide that officials, as well as Aboriginal and Island councils, manage the affairs of reserve communities and the officials have the overriding power and responsibility. Under the Acts, the Governor-in-Council may appoint a manager of a reserve and may establish a community on a reserve and appoint 'such officers, resident or visiting, as he thinks necessary for the wellbeing of the persons within the community'. The manager and other officers who have control of reserves are responsible to and subject to the direction of the Director of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement. 
Managers appointed to reserves are responsible to the Minister and the Director of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, not to the Aboriginal communities. Regulation 7 provides that a community on a reserve is 'under the control of the Manager and Council of such a community', but regulation 19, in making councils responsible to managers, clearly established that the dual control system is not a partnership of equals: The manager is in charge. The situation in the Torres Strait Islands is different from that on the larger Aboriginal reserves, though the law relating to Island reserves is very similar to the law applying to Aboriginal reserves. The management of Island reserves may be vested in managers and officers may be appointed to communities on Island reserves, but generally there are no resident managers on the Island reserves. The Island councils are hence not responsible to managers but to a district officer on Thursday Island. To this extent, the Island councils are more independent than Aboriginal councils, but they remain subject to the control and direction of the district officer and the Director and thereby remain under the direct administration of the Department. 
The means by which the legislation achieves its purpose of ensuring that if communities wish it, their councils control community affairs without being subject to the overriding power of Government officials is as follows: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs may declare that the legislation applies to a reserve or community on request by a council established under the Queensland law or if he is satisfied that a substantial majority of the adults resident on the reserve or community wish it; an existing council established under Queensland law or a body declared to be a council for the purposes of the Act, will have the function of managing community affairs and the necessary powers to carry out that function; any declared body established under the regulations will be an elected council or otherwise a properly incorporated body; councils will have power to make by-laws and to authorise entry to reserves; by express provision, councils and individual Aboriginals and Islanders will not be bound to obey directions given by officials under the Queensland legislation; councils will be responsible only to their communities; the Commonwealth may, if it becomes necessary in order to give effect to the purposes of the legislation, make available to councils land acquired by or otherwise vested in the Commonwealth; and in the case of acquisition, the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act will apply. 
The legislation will not apply to any community unless the community, through its council or directly, asks the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to make a declaration that the Act apply to the particular reserve or community. No such declaration will be made without full consultation with the community and without a clear expression of community opinion in favour of such a declaration. Thus it will be by an act of choice rather than by imposition by the Commonwealth that the legislation applies to any particular community. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated in the inaugural meeting of the National Aboriginal Conference earlier this week: 
It was never good enough for politicians or bureaucrats whether at the State or Federal level to impose on the Aboriginal people their conception of what was good for the Aboriginal people. Aboriginals have the same right as other Australian citizens to determine what is best for them. 
At the national level, the establishment of the National Aboriginal Conference expresses the Government's commitment to involving Aboriginals in setting goals and objectives which government should pursue, in setting priorities for expenditure and in evaluating programs, formulating new programs and taking responsibility for the success of programs. At the local community level, we have been seeking to encourage and help Aboriginal people throughout Australia to take full responsibility for decisionmaking in the management of community affairs. This policy of self-management has been implemented for a number of years in other States and territories and in Queensland outside the reserves. The Government is making it possible for Aboriginals as individuals and as communities to stand on their own feet. 
Self-management does not mean abandoning Aboriginal communities to fend for themselves after years of dependence on governments and missions. The full resources of the Commonwealth are made available in support of community self-management. We provide not only financial assistance but advice and support, and enable communities to hire staff to help them. In many communities in the States and the Territory where the churches, including the Uniting Church, have previously managed mission communities for many years, they continue to provide advice and support and especially help in the recruitment of resource staff and in the training of Aboriginals to perform administrative and technical duties as directed by the community councils. This is the policy which this legislation will enable us to implement in Queensland reserves. Communities will not be directed by officials but will have decision-making authority in their own hands. 
State government departments in these situations continue to provide the ordinary community services available to other Australians. In all the States, education, health and community welfare departments, for example, provide services to Aboriginal communities in the same way as they do to other citizens. There is no reason why these and other State Government services should be affected if reserve communities in Queensland choose self-management under this legislation. 
In Queensland, as in other States, the Commonwealth Government provides grants through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to support the special programs of State education, health and other departments in Aboriginal and Island communities. We look forward to continuing co-operation with the Queensland authorities in the provision of services to all Aboriginal and Island communities. General Queensland law will, of course, continue to apply to people living on reserves and this legislation will not affect the maintenance of law and order in communities. 
The Commonwealth Government is ready to discuss with the Queensland Government at any time arrangements that might be made to transfer responsibility for policy planning and coordination in Aboriginal affairs from the State to the Commonwealth. All the other States negotiated agreements for the transfer of responsibilities, following the enactment of the Aboriginal Affairs (Arrangements with the States) Act in 1973. These agreements do not mean that the States resign all responsibilities in Aboriginal affairs. In Western Australia, for example, the special State legislation- the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority Act- remains in force. That legislation provides, amongst other things, for the establishment of an Aboriginal land trust, with special responsibilities with regard to the use of Aboriginal reserve lands. Under the arrangement with the Western Australian Government, the Regional Director of my Department in Perth, who was the Commissioner for Aboriginal Planning before the transfer of responsibilities, retained this office under the State legislation. I have previously indicated to Queensland Ministers my interest in discussing possible arrangements for the transfer of responsibilities to the Commonwealth along the lines agreed with the other States and intend to renew the invitation to discuss this issue. 
The Queensland Government is engaged in a review of its Aboriginal and Islander legislation. It has appointed an Aboriginal and Islander Commission to advise it. The legislation was due to expire last December but has been extended until next June so that the Government can consider the report of the Commission. The previous Queensland Minister,  Mr Wharton,  invited me to submit the views of the Commonwealth Government to this Commission and I will be responding to this invitation. I have already indicated in general terms the Commonwealth Government's view that the Queensland legislation is in several important respects out of date and inappropriate, particularly in its provisions placing management and trusteeship of reserves in the hands of officials which effectively takes out of the hands of Aboriginals and Islanders not only ownership of lands specially set aside for them but any meaningful authority to manage their own communities. 
Similar legislation designed to supervise and control Aboriginal people and set them apart from others has long since been repealed in other States and in Commonwealth Territories. It is a relic of earlier policies directed to protecting Aboriginal people by limiting their freedoms and controlling their relations with other citizens. This Bill is designed to deal with a fundamental aspect of the Queensland legislation: Management of reserve communities by departmental officials. I believe it does this fully and effectively. It meets the needs of the special situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island and the widespread and increasing desire of Aboriginal and Islander communities for self-management. 
Communities other than Aurukun and Mornington Island will no doubt want to study the legislation and consider carefully whether they too should seek a declaration that the legislation apply to them. When I visited the Torres Strait last week, the Island chairmen gathered at Yam Island expressed not only their sympathy and support for the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities but also their keen interest in this legislation. They spoke to me of their wish to have their councils control expenditure on community services in the islands which are at present provided by the Queensland Department, as one step towards independence in the management of their own affairs. I have no doubt that there are Aboriginal communities on the mainland which will be similarly interested in the legislation. Many may well choose to wait and see how the new arrangements work at 
Aurukun and Mornington Island. I stress that no community will be pressed to make a decision on these matters and no change will be forced on any community. 
I trust that the Queensland Government will similarly study the legislation with care and consider whether it does not in fact match its own declared policies. I trust that the Queensland Government will not seek to impede or frustrate those communities which may choose to manage their own affairs under this legislation but rather will help them and continue such services as they may now be providing to those communities. 
I intend, upon the passage of the legislation, to proceed without delay to declare the Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves to be reserves to which the Act applies. As I announced on 22 March, the Commonwealth Government is ready to support the two communities and the Uniting Church with the funds necessary to ensure that existing services maintained by the Church are continued if the Queensland Government terminates its subsidy support to the Church as previously announced. My officers will be conferring with representatives of the Uniting Church and with the two communities about arrangements. Close liaison will be maintained with the communities through my Department's area offices in north Queensland, and whatever advice, practical support and financial assistance that the communities require will be provided. 
The Government will watch the situation at these two reserves closely. If further action is necessary it will be taken. The Prime Minister stated on Monday before the National Aboriginal Conference: 
These communities have turned to us. We will not fail them. 
The Government would expect good sense and a spirit of goodwill to be shown by the Queensland Government towards the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island who, by their stand, have crystallised the simple human aspirations of the indigenous people in Queensland to be free to live their own lives, to make their own decisions and to shape their own future. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I should like briefly to answer a couple of the points made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  He, like the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, has asked for a delay in the passage of this legislation for a week so that it might be considered further. I accept the point made by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  that members of the Opposition, when debating a matter of public importance about a fortnight ago, said that they would facilitate legislation of this kind because of its urgency. I make this further point, and this is the fundamental reason that this legislation cannot be delayed: I was at Aurukun recently. I attended a private session of the Aboriginal council. The members of the council were all emphatic that they wanted the Commonwealth to step in straight away, without delay, to protect them and to prevent a takeover. Some 200 to 2S0 adults were in attendance at a public meeting. Many men and women spoke very eloquently about their desire for Commonwealth action. They said that they wanted no delay. 
I remember vividly that, when addressing himself to this question,  Mr Frank  Yungaporta said: 'We want you, the Minister, to go back to Canberra and to see that that legislation is passed through Parliament next week.' That is, of course, this week. I know that if this legislation is delayed and if Frank Yungaporta, Donald Peinkinna and the other councillors of Aurukun knew that this Government had delayed the passage of the legislation and put their interests in jeopardy so that the Queensland Government could move in and take over administration, they would be absolutely devastated. Likewise, when I was at Mornington Island, a public meeting was held attended by some 150 to 200 people. They asked the Commonwealth to move immediately. They knew that legislation was being prepared and they asked me to see that it passed through Parliament without delay. When I informed them that I would be reporting to Cabinet last Monday and recommending that the legislation be introduced this week they said to me:  'Mr Minister,  see that it is introduced and see that it is passed through the Parliament this week.' If that legislation is not passed through this Parliament this Government will have failed the people whom it said it would stand by. 
I know that this legislation will do all that those people have asked. It will prevent any takeover by the State Government of the management of those two communities. That is what this legislation is designed to do and that is what it will do most effectively. Like the honourable member for Dundas, I was surprised not to hear any arguments why the Government should accept the amendments proposed by the Opposition. There are serious legal defects in the argument which, if allowed to be carried, would throw into jeopardy the constitutional validity of this legislation. I am not going to tell Opposition members how to do their legal homework but I can assure them that if the Committee carried this amendment without passing other amendments, the Bill would fail. I am certainly not going to be a party to that. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
Where- 
the Council for an Aboriginal Reserve requests the Minister to make a declaration under this sub-section; or 
the Minister is satisfied that a substantial majority of the adult Aboriginals resident on an Aboriginal Reserve wish to manage and control their own affairs in the manner provided for by this Act, the Minister may, by notice published in the  Gazette,  declare the reserve to be an Aboriginal Reserve to which this Act applies. 
Where- 
the Council for an Islander Reserve requests the Minister to make a declaration under this sub-section; or 
the Minister is satisfied that a substantial majority of the adult Islanders resident on an Islander Reserve wish to manage and control their own affairs in the manner provided for by this Act, the Minister may, by notice published in the  Gazette,  declare the reserve to be an Islander Reserve to which this Act applies. 
Where- 
the Council for an Aboriginal Community requests the Minister to make a declaration under this subsection; or 
the Minister is satisfied that a substantial majority of the adult Aboriginals who are the members of an Aboriginal Community wish to manage and control their own affairs in the manner provided for by this Act, the Minister may, by notice published in the  Gazette,  declare the Community to be an Aboriginal Community to which this Act applies. 
Where- 
the Council for an Islander Community requests the Minister to make a declaration under this sub-section; or 
the Minister is satisfied that a substantial majority of the adult Islanders who are the members of an Islander Community wish to manage and control their own affairs in the manner provided for by this Act, the Minister may, by notice published in the  Gazette,  declare the Community to be an Islander Community to which this Act applies. 
These amendments are not acceptable to the Government. If the Opposition's amendments were carried, the effect could well be to put a community in a most unenviable situation. We might conceivably have a situation in which, on a question of this kind, a council would not reflect the wishes of a substantial majority of the people. Yet the amendments would - 
-It is now, but it would not be under the amendments. The amendments would require the Minister to accept the decision of the council notwithstanding that, by some act of the majority of the people in the community, he knew it was not what they wanted. Furthermore, as my colleague the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  has pointed out, altering may' to 'shall' and making it mandatory would not remove the requirement that the Minister must be satisfied in that situation that a substantial majority of the adult Aboriginals were in favour of it. By the amendments a matter of judgment would be required by the Minister before he had to act in a mandatory fashion. I point out that the Opposition by its amendments would be taking away from the community as a whole a most beneficial provision of this legislation. 
Furthermore, a council for an Aboriginal reserve is a council constituted under the provisions of the Queensland legislation which provides that there is an election. What would happen, for example, if in the future the Queensland legislation were altered to provide not for an elected council but for an appointed council? In that event, by the Opposition's amendments, the Minister would be required by way of mandatory act to do what that council asked him to do, irrespective of whether that council truly reflected the wishes of the people. I think that the Committee can see that the amendments moved by the Opposition would be quite detrimental to the interests of the community and would not be in its interests at all. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
I did write the letter to  Senator Keeffe  and the letter is correct. I wrote a letter to Professor Rowley and, by that letter, issued general directives to the Land Fund Commission as authorised under the Aboriginal Land Fund Act. Those directives apply generally throughout Australia and are aimed at achieving a closer liaison between the Commission and my Department in the purchases that it has made. That was done for a very good practical reason. Under the Land Fund Commission legislation the Commission has no authority to buy on a walk-in walk-out basis. Therefore, in respect of chattels, equipment and such like, it must obtain funds from my Department in order to complete a purchase. It is most appropriate, I would have thought, for the purpose of effective management and the management of finances that there be consultation between the Land Fund Commission and my Department at an appropriate level before a purchase is determined so that the necessary finances can be provided by my Department to match those that are available from the Land Fund Commission. 
There is another very good reason. For example, if the Land Fund Commission were to buy a farm or something of that nature for an economic purpose as well as for a social purpose, inevitably there will be an on-going financial commitment upon the Government. I should have thought that, as a former Treasurer, the honourable gentleman would appreciate that it is necessary for such practical matters as forward estimating to know what the on-going expenditure of my Department will be. It was for those very practical reasons and in order to keep my Department informed of prospective purchases that general instructions were issued which apply throughout Australia. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill proposes several amendments to the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1976, which is an Act of Government introduced to give effect to its policy of assisting Aboriginal communities and groups to incorporate themselves for various purposes and in a manner more acceptable to them. The amendments seek to resolve issues of concern to State and Territory governments, to remedy certain deficiencies found in the existing Act, and to provide for certain procedural matters. The Act has been the subject of exhaustive discussion between the Commonwealth Government and State and Territory governments through the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council. The main issue which concerned State and Territory Ministers was that Aboriginal councils established under the Act might intrude into State responsibilities for local government, existing or proposed. When the Act was first introduced it was intended to provide a suitable vehicle for the incorporation of Aboriginal communities, particularly the remote and tradition-oriented communities who might find difficulty with western European legal concepts as embodied in State and Territory legislation. In opening to Aboriginal communities the possibility of carrying out, through councils, certain municipal type functions, the Act was not intended to lead to a separate local government system. For example, by-laws made by an Aboriginal council will not, under the Act, apply to a person who is not an Aboriginal and, under the amendments being introduced, consultation will have to take place with State and Territory Ministers before an Aboriginal council is established in an area in which municipal services already exist or are proposed. 
The anxiety that the establishment of separate local government bodies might be in the Government 's mind and that it might lead to what has variously been described as separate development, the creation of semi-autonomous Aboriginal entities and /or an encroachment on State rights under the federal system has occasionally been expressed. Perhaps I can set this anxiety to rest by emphasising that the self-management objectives of the Government do not involve separate laws for Aboriginals whereby they are able to cut themselves off from the federal or State institutions of Government which are part of our nation's fabric. Where the establishment under this legislation of Aboriginal councils with municipal type functions is contemplated, the Minister is already required to take into account any proposed extension of local government into the area. The amendments to sections 16 and 17 of the Act now proposed go further than this. They require account to be taken of both existing and proposed local government responsibilities in areas where Aboriginal councils are to be established and for the Minister to consult with State or Territory Ministers before he decides on the establishment of a council. It is to be hoped that these provisions will satisfy the States as to the Commonwealth 's good faith and intentions. 
It is not intended that any organisation of Aboriginals or Islanders should be compelled to incorporate under Commonwealth legislation unless it wishes to acquire land from the Commonwealth or with the use of Commonwealth funds. From the latter point of view the Act will merely serve to ensure that land which the Commonwealth makes available for Aboriginal communities is not disposable without the consent of the Minister and is retained in perpetuity for the benefit of future generations of Aboriginal Australians. There is no State or Territory legislation which will achieve this. Another, and less controversial, objection raised by the States was to the effect of section 78 of the Act on the security of State interests in land acquired by Aboriginal corporations from State governments and the need for States to retain ownership and control of such lands transferred to an Aboriginal land trust and subsequently leased to an Aboriginal corporation. To meet the States' objection, which was valid, section 78 (2) is being amended by the deletion of the words 'or a State '. 
A further amendment is proposed to section 78 dealing with the disposability of land which would prevent an Aboriginal corporation from disposing of an estate or interest in land without seeking an order from the Minister declaring such land disposable. The former National Aboriginal Consultative Committee drew my attention some time ago to the fact that there was no provision in the Act for appeals against discretionary decisions by the Registrar in respect of various administrative functions vested in the Registrar by the Act. I agreed that this was an omission in the original Act, and various amendments are now being introduced to provide for ministerial intervention in or review of decisions taken by the Registrar under the Act where such intervention or review is appropriate. 
The remaining amendments to section 3, section 27, section 38 and section 59 are procedural and do not involve any matters of substance. One matter I might mention is the amendment proposed to section 3 to enable an Aboriginal association which is already incorporated under State or Territory law, to incorporate under this Act. The amendment proposed to section 46 ( 1 ) will prevent dual incorporation and provision will be made in the regulations to be made under this Act for the State or Territory authority concerned to be duly notified when such an association is incorporated under the Act. Honourable members will be aware that, although the original Act was assented to on 15 December 1976, its proclamation has been delayed pending the resolution of the various issues which were raised concerning difficulties which were likely to arise in the implementation of the Act in the form in which it was enacted. The amendments now proposed should overcome these difficulties and allow for the proclamation of the Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members for their support. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
In the definition 'proceeding', after 'any', insert 'other'. 
The amendment is consequential. Nothing particular needs to be said about it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
This amendment was moved in the other place and the matter was answered there by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  The Government does not accept the amendment. The point is that a State court exercising a Federal jurisdiction has its rules of evidence, either by common law or under statute. I think that a point well made by the AttorneyGeneral was that one item of evidence might be relevant to both the State jurisdiction and the Federal jurisdiction of the State court. It could well be highly inconvenient if the State court had at every turn to decide whether it was exercising State or Federal jurisdiction and had to apply a different set of evidentiary laws, depending on which jurisdiction was being exercised. In a practical sense, it would achieve absurd results if an item of evidence were admitted in one case for one purpose and were considered inadmissible for another purpose. There are examples of courts exercising mixed jurisdictions- that is, State and Federal jurisdictions- and, for those general purposes, as the Attorney-General elaborated in the other place, the Government does not accept the proposed amendment. 
Again, this is an amendment which was moved in the other place and the argument was answered by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  For the reasons the AttorneyGeneral has given, the amendment is not agreed to. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move: 
In proposed section 7q, omit 'which, if admitted, would', substitute 'which has been obtained illegally or would, if admitted, '. 
This amendment is intended to bring the provisions of this Bill into line with common law by providing for the situation where material has been obtained illegally. By way of this amendment the Bill picks up that point of common law as well as the point already provided for in the Bill. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  As the honourable member has spoken twice already on this clause, is leave granted for him to speak again- 
Leave granted. 
I am glad to hear one of my colleagues say that the speech of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was a pathetic performance. Let the judgment be made by others and not by me of the effort of the Leader of the Opposition here today. I say at once that the honourable gentleman does not understand the nature of the legislation establishing the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. He does not understand the way in which the Queensland Laws Racial Discrimination Act, which was passed by his own Government, operates. He really does not understand, let alone refer to correctly, the contents of various documents from which he quoted. 
The Land Fund Commission has its origin in recommendations made by the Woodward Commission. It is a complementary vehicle for giving effect to a land rights policy. The land rights legislation which this Government has passed, following the essential principles of the Woodward report, operates in traditional areas in the Northern Territory.  Mr Justice  Woodward recognised that there needed to be some other vehicle for providing to those Aboriginals who had been dispossessed an opportunity to obtain land. Therefore the Land Fund Commission can operate, for example, to return to dispossessed traditional groups- that is, groups who still follow traditional customs- land which had been taken from them for the creation of pastoral properties. This has been done for both economic and social purposes in many parts of Australia where a pastoral property has been purchased. The economic purpose is to give the Aboriginals a means of making a livelihood and the social purpose is to return them to their traditional country. The Land Fund Commission also operates in favour of those Aboriginals who have been dispossessed but, today, do not have any traditional links. I think more particularly of those living in rural areas or in cities and towns. 
This Government has provided the Land Fund Commission with funds to operate in all States and, as I indicated recently in answer to a question, provision has already been made in the 1 978-79 Estimates for a continuation of that activity in all States of Australia. The letter quoted by the honourable gentleman which I wrote very recently to  Senator Keeffe  is explicit and accurate to describe the present position. There is no restriction upon the activities of the Land Fund Commission in Queensland. Only one or two weeks ago I was talking to Professor Rowley and he told me that there are a number of properties in Queensland which the Land Fund Commission plans to buy. Some of the properties are freehold and some are not. He will be writing to me about them. I will not name them for fear that some action may be taken to deny the Land Fund Commission the opportunity of acquiring them. 
The letter from which the honourable gentleman quoted was written barely 10 days ago. I issued general instructions as authorised under the legislation- which I might point out was passed by the honourable gentleman's Government when in office- and I gave the reason for that in an answer the other day. Let me make it quite plain. There is no restriction on the activities of the Land Fund Commission in Queensland. 
I shall deal very quickly with the two propertiesArcher River and Glenore. I regret to inform the honourable gentleman that the sources of his information have not been able to obtain from the files of the Department all the information that is contained in them.  His  sources of information did not know, and therefore did not tell him, that I went to Queensland on behalf of the Land Fund Commission and on behalf of the Government in order to endeavour to persuade the Queensland Minister for Lands to approve the transfer of Archer River. That is not the act of a Minister as described by the honourable gentleman. I also sought from the Queensland Minister for Lands an understanding of the purposes of the Land Fund Commission. I sought to persuade him that there is nothing sinister in it and that the Queensland Government ought to treat it as a purchaser of property in the same way as it treats anyone else who buys property in Queensland. The fundamental misapprehension of the Queensland Government with regard to the Land Fund Commission is that it believes, contrary to all the evidence, that property purchased by the Commission will become Commonwealth land and therefore will be taken away from the State. Of course that is simply not correct; the Land Fund Commission buys property in the same way as everyone else taking exactly the same title, whether it be leasehold or freehold, as anyone else. I do not know if I have disabused the Queensland Government of that misapprehension but I hope I have. 
That Government gave me further information about Archer River which, as I recall, I transmitted to the Land Fund Commission. The purchase of that property was not proceeded with; not because I did not want to see it proceed but because obstacles were put in the path of the Commission, and for other Queensland Government reasons to which I referred the other day. 
The matter concerning Glenore station has somewhat of a departmental history going back many years. I sought information concerning its background. It was looked upon as an alternative property which Normanton Aboriginals could have made available to them because their own traditional country is tried up. I discussed Glenore station with the Queensland Government. It seemed that on the basis upon which the Queensland Government would have expected the covenants attached to the pastoral lease to be complied with, it simply was not a proposition that could go forward; not because of any desire on my part to deny the Commission the opportunity but because all the evidence showed that it could not proceed. I know that the Land Fund Commission considered its legal position then because some statements were made which indicated that the reason why consent would not be given to that transfer was because it was going to an Aboriginal community. 
The honourable gentleman may or may not be aware that under the Queensland legislation the Minister for Lands has absolute discretion. The honourable gentleman's studies in law may not have gone far enough for him to know that there is a very limited area indeed in which the courts will interfere in the exercise of an absolute discretion. I notice that the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is sitting behind the honourable gentleman at the table. He will be aware of the legal implications of what I say. When representatives of the Land Fund Commission went to the auction to buy Glenore station in November they did so without first having advised me that they would bid at auctionin fact the letter from the  Chairman  was dated 8 December, two days before the election. After the election I returned to find that this property had been purchased at auction but of course it had to run the gamut of the absolute discretion of the State Minister for Lands to consent to the purchase. In what sort of position was I, in order to do anything? Further, the Commission said that it desired legal action to be taken under the Racial Discrimination Act, if that was possible. The answer quoted by the honourable member for Oxley is an answer to that particular aspect of the matter. 
In summary, with regard to the Land Fund Commission, there are no proposals before the Government for the abolition of the operations of the Land Fund Commission for the policy purposes about which I have spoken. Discussions have taken place with my Department, as evidenced by the minute which has fallen into the hands of the honourable gentleman- from whatever source at the moment I do not know. I would have thought that it would have been in the interests of Aboriginal people throughout Australia to look at the possible conjunction of the activities of the Land Fund Commission and the Aboriginal entitlement capital account referred to in the policy statement of the present Government of November 1975 and also to look at that account and its particular nature related to the question of dispossession and dispersal of Aboriginals which, as I pointed out, is the very fundamental purpose for the creation of the Commission along with other activities in this area of the Department and other instrumentalities of the Government, namely the Loans Commission and the grants-in-aid for enterprise purposes provided by the Government. I do not detract for one minute from the kind of ideas that I have put forward for consideration by the Government and the kind of review that is being undertaken in my Department at present because I am quite sure that from that review, and having regard to some of the considerations which I have mentioned, there will be a much better vehicle in the end for giving effect to those fundamental purposes of the Government of which I have spoken. 
The honourable gentleman referred to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975. I regret to say that on the part of the Opposition there is a complete misconception about the operation of that legislation. It seeks to strike down the very abuses of human rights, of which the honourable gentleman spoke- the discriminatory actions and legislation of the Queensland Governmentbut it does it in such a way that it creates a right in the hands of any Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander in Queensland to protect himself against discrimination by reason of the provisions of this legislation. So the Commonwealth Government is not required to enforce it in the sense of launching a prosecution, obtaining a conviction and having a penalty imposed because there are no such enforcement provisions in this legislation. 
The honourable gentleman sought to say that there is evidence that I have prevented action being taken under this legislation. Let me inform him that the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service of Queensland at this very moment is considering bringing action on behalf of certain individuals to recover wages that should have been paid by virtue of that legislation. I had discussions with representatives of the Legal Aid Service only a couple of weeks ago in which I was informed of that intention to embark on litigation. Of course the Legal Aid Service is funded by the Commonwealth. Let me also inform the honourable gentleman for his benefit that a number of prosecutions have been launched in Queensland against individual Aboriginals. The Aboriginal Legal Aid Service on the basis of this legislation has put in a defence and the prosecutions have been promptly withdrawn. That is the way in which this legislation has worked and is working at present. To use the Opposition's terminology, as inaccurate as it is, it is being enforced in Queensland. That is a protective measure and I applaud the former Government for introducing it and striking down the kind of discriminatory laws which existed then and which still exist in Queensland. 
The honourable gentleman said that there was some evidence to the effect that I had prevented action being taken under the Racial Discrimination Act arising out of the report of the Commissioner for Community Relations on Queensland. I just do not know what he is talking about because no such action has been taken on my part. The honourable gentleman ought to know what is provided for in the Racial Discrimination Act by way of inquiry and report of the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
The honourable gentleman mentioned the Aboriginals Councils and Associations Act. I ran into trouble with that legislation. A number of States did not agree with it. Perhaps the honourable member would like to judge why a number of the States did not agree with it. Queensland was one. Western Australia was one. South Australia was one. Victoria expressed some misgivings about it. At two meetings of the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council, one in 1976 and one in 1977, 1 had some pretty vigorous discussions with State Ministers. The transcripts are there if honourable members opposite wish to see the way in which I defended this legislation. I was, however, prepared to accommodate the States in two of the issues. One of these the States regarded as being very  important and it  was referred to in the second reading speech which I made when I introduced a Bill yesterday. So quite clearly the case of the honourable gentleman has no substance whatsoever. 
I should like to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. The Leader of the Opposition seeks to incorporate in  Hansard  documents which he has. The point is that he does not have all the documents. His source has not been assiduous enough to obtain all the documents. As he puts so much store on the minutes of the meeting on 14 March, I am quite happy for him to table those minutes. 
-I am quite happy - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is intended to give effect to the Government's decisions on the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry as far as they affect Aboriginal land rights. The opportunity is also being taken to seek some machinery amendments to facilitate the administration of the Act and to remedy defects which have been found in the operation of the Act. 
Honourable members will recall that by virtue of section 1 1 (2) of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act, the Ranger Inquiry was enabled to inquire into and report on Aboriginal land claims in the Alligator Rivers region effectively as if it were the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. The Ranger Inquiry recommended that traditional Aboriginal claims to a large portion of the vacant Crown land within the region should be granted to an Aboriginal Land Trust. The amendments will implement this recommendation. I announced in my statement on 25 August last year that the decision to negotiate the purchase of Mudginberry and Munmarlary pastoral leases meant that these areas would become available to form part of the National Park and that the traditional land claims to these areas could be heard in accordance with provisions of the Land Rights Act and recommendations submitted by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. Negotiations with the lessees for the acquisition of the leases have been continuing and are not yet complete. However, in anticipation of their eventual acquisition, the Bill will provide for Aboriginal land claims to be made over land in Stage 2 of the proposed Kakadu National Park, notwithstanding that the land may have become part of a national park. 
The Government proposes that when the leases have been acquired, opportunity would be given to the traditional owners of the land to make a claim before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. Depending upon the recommendation of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner and my consideration of his report, there will be opportunity for this land to become Aboriginal land within the meaning of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. It will be a condition of any land grant that the land to become national park should be leased back to the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. The next step would therefore be for the Northern Land Council on behalf of the traditional owners to make an agreement with the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service which would cover the lease of the land to the Director so that it might become a national park and to provide for the management of the park. Provision will be made that if agreement cannot be reached between the Northern Land Council and the Director I can appoint an arbitrator to determine the matter. 
In relation to the Ranger area, the inquiry considered representations made on behalf of the traditional owners regarding the proximity of the Ranger area to the sacred sites at or near Mount Brockman or Djidbidjidbi. The inquiry recommended in chapter 14 that the Land Rights Act be amended so as to move the southern boundary of the Ranger project area, as delineated in Schedule 2 of the Act, further away from the Aboriginal sacred sites. This is being done. 
The Ranger Inquiry found that it was common practice in the Northern Territory not to grant mineral leases as such but to notify applicants of the Administrator's approval to the grant and of any conditions specially attached to the grant; that this is regarded as substantially the equivalent of a grant. The effects of this practice were not taken into account in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. The inquiry, by recommendation 14.2, recommended that section 40 ( 1 ) of the Land Rights Act should be amended so that the prohibition against granting a mining interest without consent should certainly include the common case of mining leases being approved by the Administrator, but not formally granted. The Bill does this by an additional definition of grant which will ensure that an approval to grant a mining lease is treated in exactly the same way as an actual grant of a mining interest. 
The inquiry was concerned to ensure that the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Northern Land Council should be able to reinforce the environmental protection machinery. My colleague, the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  has already indicated that the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act will be amended to provide for the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service to have appropriate rights of inspection and information. This Bill seeks similar rights for the Northern Land Council, as recommended by the inquiry in recommendation 18.2 (s). 
As I have already indicated, the opportunity is being taken to seek further amendments to the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. But I would stress that none of these amendments alter the original policy expressed in the Act. This is a complex piece of legislation and since it has been in operation it has been found that amendments are required to ensure the effective administration of the Act and to remove the possibility of interpretations contrary to its intention. 
It was the intention, in drafting the principal Act, that in establishing a land trust it ought to be sufficient to describe in general terms the beneficiaries of the land held by the land trust. However, the Government has received legal advice that the Act requires specific identification of the Aboriginal groups involved. Because of this advice, the establishment of Land Trusts has not been possible. I have been unable to recommend to the Governor-General the grant of any land to land trusts because of the difficulty of identifying in specific terms the beneficiaries involved. Consequently, title has not been granted in respect of those areas of land described in Schedule 1 of the principal Act. To determine the traditional owners in this degree of detail would be a complex and timeconsuming task which is intended to be the long-term responsibility of the Land Councils in establishing a register of traditional owners under section 24 of the Act. It is therefore intended to amend the Act so that specific identification will not be required. This will enable the early establishment of land trusts to hold tide to the land described in Schedule 1 of the principal Act which include all of the major Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory. 
The Aboriginal Land Commissioner has drawn my attention to the fact that there are defects in the protection given to him and to voluntary witnesses in hearings before him. He has also pointed out that he cannot administer an oath or affirmation to a voluntary witness. The Bill will seek to remedy these defects and to give the Commissioner the same protection and immunity as a justice of the High Court. 
The principal Act provides for the closing of the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund which was established under section 21 of the Northern Territory Administration Act and for it to be replaced by an Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account to be established under section 63 of the Land Rights Act. Because it has not been possible to grant land to land trusts and therefore revenue from Aboriginal land has not commenced to flow to the ABTA, it has been necessary to maintain the ABTF to receive royalties for the benefit of Aboriginals. Minor amendments are proposed which will facilitate the closure of the ABTF and ensure that its assets are transferred to the ABTA. 
The principal Act required that I should set up at least two land councils in the Northern Territory. This I have done and the two Councils, the Northern Land Council and the Central Land Council, have commenced operations and have proven to be dedicated representatives of the traditional owners. Already, in anticipation of their being granted Aboriginal land, the Councils have entered into substantial negotiations with mining companies and other interests on behalf of the traditional owners. The Councils have demonstrated a responsibility and a capacity which fulfils the expectations of the Government to which I alluded in my second reading speech to the principal Act in June 1976. Honourable members will be aware that the Aboriginal Land Rights Act provides for the creation of additional land councils under certain circumstances. I have received representations from the Tiwi people of Bathurst and Melville Islands seeking the establishment of their own land council. I am having inquiries made to ascertain the strength of this demand and will, if I am satisfied that the majority of the people are in favour, create a separate council for the Tiwi people. In anticipation of such a move, the Bill provides that representations of the councils on the Aboriginal Benefit Trust Account Advisory Committee shall have relation to the number of Aboriginals living in the area of each council in fixing the number of members that each council can elect to the Advisory Committee. It is also proposed to ensure that any land transactions affecting Aboriginal land should be registered under the normal Northern Territory system of land title registration. This will ensure that there is an accurate record of dealings in Aboriginal land. 
In my second reading speech to the Land Rights Act in 1976, 1 said that the Government believed that the Act would allow and encourage Aboriginals in the Northern Territory to give full expression to the affinity with land that characterised their traditional society and gave a unique quality to their lives. This has already occurred. I and other members of the Government, in our dealings with the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory, have been impressed with the increased self-confidence of the people and the way in which they have accepted the fact that they are to become the owners of their land. I am aware that moves by Aboriginal people to assert their rights as provided by the Aboriginal Land Rights Act have caused some people to become wary and even fearful of the new situation which now prevails. I have said on other occasions that this new confidence being demonstrated by the Aboriginal people is a measure of the success of the Government's policy which provides for Aboriginal self-management. 
The Aboriginal Land Rights Act is a unique and historical piece of legislation. It provides the opportunity for Aboriginal people to participate in matters affecting their lives in a way which has hitherto been denied them. This needs to be accepted by those people who have in the past been used to making decisions for Aboriginals and by those who have been able to take decisions which might vitally affect Aboriginals without thought for Aboriginal opinion. 
The amendments which are now being placed before the House are designed to give further effect to the Government's policies in relation to Aboriginal land rights and to allow Aboriginals, as I said in my statement to the House on 25 August last year, as owners of their land, to follow their own lifestyles on their own land to the extent that they choose, to participate in and influence the course of development of and on their traditional land, and to take advantage of the full range of opportunities which development may open up to them. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to confer jurisdiction on the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory in relation to the enforcement by it of certain legal requirements for the protection of the environment in the Alligator Rivers region. The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry saw the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and the Northern Land Council as having a special interest in reinforcing the environment protection machinery in the Alligator Rivers region. It saw as an advantage of the recommendations it made with regard to Aboriginal ownership of land and the creation of the national park that there would be people with the interest and knowledge to protect the environment from the consequences of mining operations. The Inquiry therefore recommended that the environment protection provisions be made legally enforceable and that both the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and the Northern Land Council be given the right to enforce those provisions, particularly by way of injunction to restrain or compel action. It envisaged that the jurisdiction to issue injunctions should be conferred on the Northern Territory Supreme Court and recommended that the Court would have a wide discretion as to the exercise of its jurisdiction in such cases. 
This Bill will give effect to the Government's decision to accept the inquiry's recommendations. It confers jurisdiction on the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, at the suit of the Director of National Parks and Wildlife or the Northern Land Council, to make orders for the enforcement, in relation to uranium mining, of environmental requirements which are contained in Commonwealth and Northern Territory laws and in instruments made under those laws, and it gives the Court a wide discretion as to the exercise of this jurisdiction. It should be noted that the Bill does not give the Court power to impose new environmental requirementsonly to make orders in relation to requirements which are imposed elsewhere. The Bill also provides that the Court may order the repayment of costs incurred in work to remedy any detriment to the environment. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
When this matter was brought to the attention of the Government and the Government made decisions to ensure that selfmanagement was made available to these two communities, I made it quite clear in the statements I made that financial support would be provided to both communities so that they could achieve full and effective self-management. Under the agreement reached with the Queensland Government last night that commitment still stands. However, I said in previous statements I have made, and I repeat, that I would expect the Queensland Government to provide to the people of Mornington Island and Aurukun all the services that it provides to all other citizens of Queensland. That, of course, will carry for the Queensland Government its own financial commitment. 
This Parliament legislated to bring self-management to these and other communities which sought to take advantage of our legislation. The agreement reached with the Queensland Government sought to achieve these two basic aims: first, the self-management for those communities because their reserves had been abolished; and secondly, security of tenure for their continued use and occupancy of the land which they and their forebears had occupied for years and years. Both of those proposals were achieved by the agreement. 
As the Prime Minister has just said, I will be working in the closest consultation and cooperation with the Queensland Government in working out the terms of the legislation to bring self-management within the local government framework of that State. Also, I will be working in the closest consultation and co-operation with the Queensland Government to see that the terms of that special lease adequately secure the tenure of the people in those two places for the rights of occupation and use which they previously enjoyed. 
The honourable gentleman seems to forget the commitments that were made by this Government as early as 1976, when the mining of bauxite on the Aurukun Reserve first arose. Let me remind him of the commitments then made by the Government. Firstly, we sought to ensure that there was adequate consultation with the Aurukun community, where it was evident that there had not been that consultation before. Secondly, we reminded the Queensland Government of the control over exports that the Commonwealth had. Since that time, my Department has promoted discussions with the mining consortium, Aurukun Associates, the Queensland Government and the communities. In fact, Aurukun Associates is at the moment seeking an appointment with me but other things seem to have intruded and I have not been able to keep that appointment. 
Let me also point out to the honourable gentleman that, through funding by the Commonwealth, the Aurukun community was able to litigate the question of the validity of the agreement entered into by the Queensland Director of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, as trustee of the reserved land. The community won before the Supreme Court of Queensland but was taken on appeal by the Queensland Government to the Privy Council. The Privy Council upheld the validity of that agreement which was ratified by the Queensland Parliament. I have said recently that the Commonwealth is not in a position to abrogate that agreement; we do not believe in abrogating existing interests; we cannot do it. However, I can assure the honourable gentleman, as I have assured the Aurukun people before, that we will continue to seek consultations with Aurukun Associates and the Queensland Government to see that they are fully satisfied with the agreement over mining, if mining should ever proceed. The relationship between the special lease and the rights to use and occupancy which that gives to the mining interests already established on the former reserve is, of course, a matter which the Commonwealth will keep under the closest consideration. 
-The joint statement of last night with regard to self-management made two basic points. The first was that self-management would be achieved within the framework of the local government laws of Queensland. Of course the honourable gentleman, being a resident of Queensland, would appreciate that any local government is, by its very name and nature, a self-governing or self-managing authority in respect of the area over which it has authority. The second fundamental point which the statement made was that the Community Council, as it is now known, in each case will be the Council for the purposes of the local government of those two authorities. The statement says that that Council will be the managing authority. 
Obviously amendments have to be made to the Queensland local government laws in order to make proper and adequate provision for the fact that these are Aboriginal communities which are being given local government. Therefore, I should expect that, in the consultations that are taking place, the amendments will be tailored specifically to the fact that there are Aboriginal communities. Proper account will be taken of their special needs and requirements. 
In the joint statement there is a reference to a co-ordinating and advisory authority. I should like to make quite clear to the House just what that is. It will not be a creature of statute; it will not have any executive authority or power to control the elected Community Council. It will be an advisory body, a liaising body comprising officers of those State departments and my own Department which have the responsibility of providing services to these communities. It is not unlike bodies of a similar kind which operate in other States for the purposes of rationalising and harmonising the delivery of services that are needed by the community. 
by leave- On 2 June 1977 the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure presented the Committee's report on Australia's overseas representation. In accordance with the operational guidelines tabled by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 8 April 1976 I am now able to announce the Government's responses to the various recommendations of the Standing Committee. The Government regards the report as a valuable contribution to the development of improved management and control of Australia's representation in foreign countries. As the report clearly indicates, there has, over the years, been a growth in overseas representation beyond that which is essential to meet Australia's needs. While other initiatives in recent years have reversed that growth, to the point where overseas staffing is now substantially in line with essential workloads, without unacceptable detriment to departmental operations, the report of the Standing Committee has led to Government acceptance of arrangements which will better enable the Government to scrutinise our overseas representation regularly and in detail. 
In considering the specific recommendations of the Standing Committee, the Government has been mindful that Australia needs a competent and properly positioned diplomatic and consular service; that it needs to take positive action to locate outlets for trade; that it needs to develop sound economic and financial relations with other countries; and that its defence requirements include a substantial degree of involvement and therefore contact with other countries. There are also our needs in relation to migration. In addition, Australia, as an active member of the international community, has with a number of individual foreign countries and institutions particular shared interests which can require specialised representation. These factors are necessarily influential in determining the number of overseas posts which Australia requires. The Government has endorsed the Standing Committee's view that we should examine on a continuing basis the range and extent of functions and services provided at overseas posts, the systems applying in posts, and the associated staffing levels. Central to this examination is the submission of a biennial report by the Public Service Board on reviews conducted by departments. In advance of the first biennial review of overseas posts the Government has acted on recommendation 32 of the Standing Committee that the Government set a limit on locally-engaged staffing in London at 500 and instruct departments to arrange priorities within that number. 
In considering this recommendation, the Government requested the Public Service Board and the Department of Foreign Affairs to conduct a joint review, in consultation with relevant departments, of services, functions and staffing in London with a view to identifying those reductions that would be required to achieve a locallyengaged staffing level of no more than 500. That review has now been completed and a report made to the Government. As a result of the review, it has been found possible to achieve the recommended level of staffing by rearrangement of services and functions in the High Commission, London, and by the return to Australia of a small number of minor functions which can be performed as readily from Australia as from London. Action is being taken to reduce locallyengaged staffing in London to 525. The Public Service Board and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, in consultation with other relevant departments, are reviewing further staffing reductions which would achieve and maintain a locally-engaged staffing level of not more than 500. For the information of honourable members, I table a summary of the Standing Committee's recommendations and of the Government's responses to them. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith) by leave- I note the Minister assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner)  says that this statement is the Government's response to a report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure on Australia 's overseas representation which was tabled in the Parliament as far back as June last year. The Committee was appointed by resolution of the House in April 1976. As the Committee itself says, 'the central thrust of its inquiry has been towards determining what value the Australian public was receiving for its money and what improvements might be made'. The Committee has not questioned the Government's broad foreign, trade and other policies but rather how they are being implemented and administered'. For the want of a summary I shall call it the Garland Committee because  Mr Garland,  now the Minister for Special Trade Representations, was the  Chairman.  I am aware of the fact that the Committee did not leave Australian shores. The Committee said that is was not possible for it to examine individually all the 4,029 positions overseas. 
However, I make these points: Efficiency review of public administration is important and there is no reason why it should apply more to overseas representation than to domestic departments. The Committee has done a very quick and, we would say, easy job. Some of the points it made are sound and some are superficial. It is important to get beyond the hopeless start that the Government made with the recommendations of what is called the Bland Committee. The most notable disaster in relation to that Committee was the closing of the Los Angeles office. That has lost us millions of dollars in trade. In fact, the New South Wales Government has gone to the trouble of establishing its own Los Angeles office. The Premier of New South Wales is confident that he will improve the trading position of that State as a result of that perception. All this discussion can be pretty academic. The real issue, in our view, is that the present Government 's foreign policy is that of only one person, namely, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  and that has its limitations. 
Let us turn to the particulars. The Committee has hit at the big objects, starting with London. It is laudable to get the staffing in London down to 500 people but that raises the question of the value and effectiveness of staff ceilings, which can produce distortions rather than economies and effectiveness. It is the cost that counts. In our major embassies it is possible to work out what it costs to support what is known as a policy officer. For example, Washington has 100 policy officers among 300 staff. The total cost is over $10m a year. That is, it is $ 100,000 per policy officer. It is important that the Committee should have approached this subject on a more understanding basis than simply lopping off a few numbers. The ceiling approach can lead to the wrong staff being laid off and to damage to interest. We can wind up with a lot of chiefs and very few Indians if we adopt this sort of policy. It does not guarantee effectiveness or economy. 
The report states only that defence personnel will not be increased. That means that again the Department of Defence was successful in snowing the Committee in the usual tradition. The Committee ran up against the most complicated system with massive overseas staffing and has not been able to analyse it. I understand it will be analysed this year. Well over half our staff in London and Washington are defence people or people providing services for defence staff. 
The report admirably recommends that the Department of Foreign Affairs be opened up. It has been a 'closed shop' for a long time and has acquired, especially under the strictures and staff cuts of the Government, a depressive 'closed shop' mentality. Of course this is likely to be the case while foreign policy is not made in the Department of Foreign Affairs but, in our view, in the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet as well as the Treasury. Even so, item 14 of the attachment to the Minister's statement indicates that the proposal has not been fully accepted. 
Secondments out of the Department of Foreign Affairs are not the point; it is time Foreign Affairs opened its doors and accepted people from outside on a wider scale and made service elsewhere in the Government a prerequisite for higher appointment The foreign service labours in shallow water without full appreciation of national interest, as is found elsewhere in government. Of course the same could be said of a number of other departments, including Treasury. 
We welcome the proposals to improve the Trade Commissioner Service. This is overdue. Trade Commissioners are important in finding trade opportunities. I have doubts, however, about the effectiveness of recommendations to improve and revitalise the Service. The Government has not accepted the proposal to repeal the Trade Commissioners Act. That decision reflects pressure, not improvement. We await advice from the Government as to what it will do instead. 
We note that the Government is giving consideration to charging Australians for services they obtain from Austraiian embassies abroad. It is to be hoped that the Government will do this with some sense of proportion. Many of the services provided to travelling Australians are essential and humanitarian in nature. Any of us who have been overseas are aware of that fact and know that Australians travelling overseas are not necessarily well endowed. It is wrong to start from the premise that all Australians who travel are rich. It is desirable for Australians to continue to be able to expect, when they suffer injury or sickness or other misfortune while they are abroad, that the Government's representatives will provide them with reasonable assistance. 
It is essential for Australia to be well represented and effectively represented. We are too far from the rest of the world and too dependant on trading relations with distant countries, and relations in various other spheres, for our representation to be dispensable. 
We must also recognise that people sent abroad on extended duties do so at some cost to themselves, as well as some benefit. They must not only be respected and recompensed but also provided with an opportunity to re-establish themselves in Australia. What is the use of having staff representing Australia who have spent most of their adult lives outside Australia? The same problem relates to the location of most of our Public Service advisers. They spend most of their lives in Canberra- a splendid city but one that is pretty remote from most of Australia 's social and economic problems. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for asking the question so that this point can be clarified, if there is any doubt, particularly in the minds of the two communities and the Church. The intention behind the proposal for local government within the two communities is that through that the communities will achieve self-management so that their own community councils will be the managing authorities for the communities and thereby they will be selfmanaging. As self-managing authorities the communities of course will be in a position to seek the assistance of whomever they want. Therefore I am pleased to inform the honourable gentleman that there will be no reason at all why the communities could not decide to have the 
Church stay and also determine the kind of relationship they want. The point to be made clear is that this decision will be in the hands of the communities. If they want the Church to stay, as they have so firmly expressed before, of course the Church can stay and provide that help and support and assistance that the Church is able to give. 
The honourable gentleman has raised a very interesting question indeed because if these two communities are to obtain selfmanagement by being created local government shires so that the community councils become local government councils, then under the full force of the Queensland local government laws they would be fully-fledged shires. Therefore, they would be in a position to receive the per capita reimbursement grant to which the honourable gentleman has referred, in exactly the same way as any other local government shire in Queensland. 
They would also be able to participate in the distribution of moneys made available under the tax reimbursement formula and, furthermore, to participate in the equalisation scheme for which all other shires in Queensland are eligible. So the fact that they do become fully-fledged local government bodies and, through that, obtain self-management for their communities, could provide them with very distinctive financial advantages over other Aboriginal communities in Queensland. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations have co-operated in approaches to a number of State instrumentalities which have resulted in the creation of employment openings for Aboriginals. Similar approaches to Commonwealth instrumentalities are now being considered. 
Department of Health: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence (Question No. 261) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr Justice  Woodward, in his second report, concluded that 'the Aboriginal people themselves must be fully consulted about all steps proposed to be taken' in relation to land rights, even though this would involve some delays. I agreed with this conclusion and accordingly deferred the introduction of land rights legislation until I had had an opportunity to consult personally with Aboriginals. After I introduced the legislation in June 1976 a further opportunity was provided for consultation and negotiation with Aboriginals before the legislation was debated by the Parliament. 
I have discussed the situation at Maningrida with the  Chairman  and Executive of the Northern Land Council. The Northern Land Council is engaged in negotiation with the Commonwealth on an agreement in relation to the Ranger development. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Fourth International Trade Law Seminar held in Canberra in April 1977. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) $5,194; (b) $29,038; (c) $64,799; (d) $37,923 (to 28 February, 1978). 
) The nature and cost of advertising was: 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
(a) Final printing of the next annual volume of Acts (the 1974 volume) is now in progress and deliveries of the volume for distribution are expected to commence this month. Work is progressing simultaneously on the 1975, 1 976 and 1 977 annual volumes of Acts, and no effort is being spared to ensure that they are published at the earliest practicable dates after the 1974 volume. Extra staff from the Attorney-General's Department has been diverted for the purpose, and special arrangements have been made with the assistance of the Government Printer and the Australian Government Publishing service to speed up the processes. As an ad hoc measure, some of my Department's staff have been located on the spot in the Government Printing Office. 
I might inform the House that, because the Acts in the volumes are being re-set by computer type-setting methods, a higher than usual number of errors has occurred in successive proof stages. This has resulted in some slowing down of the processes, but steps are being taken to reduce delays caused by this factor to a minimum. The adaptation of computer type-setting, which was designed primarily for producing the daily Hansard, to the more precise lay-out of legislation has necessarily caused some problems at the technical end. However, the computer type-setting process results in an extremely valuable by-product in that the text of the Acts will be available in machine-readable form for the legal information retrieval system which my Department is developing and which will be of benefit to the Parliament, the Government and the community generally when fully developed. The computer type-setting process will also help to reduce the time for producing reprints in the future. 
1) (b) Priority attention will be given to overcoming the arrears in publication of the annual volumes of Statutory Rules as soon as the publication of the Acts volumes has reached a satisfactory state. 
and (3) The Attorney-General's Department is responsible for preparing consolidations of the legislation of the Commonwealth and the Territories. 
A special Section has been established in my Department for the purpose of concentrating solely on the production, on a regular cyclic basis, of bound collections (similar to the Acts of the Parliament 1901-1973') of Acts, Commonwealth Statutory Rules, Australian Capital Territory laws and Northern Territory laws and, if required, of laws of external Territories like Norfolk Island. 
A consolidation (estimated to comprise 5 volumes) of the Ordinances and Regulations of the Australian Capital Territory as in force at the end of 1 977 is presently being prepared in the Attorney-General's Department. The first volume is expected to be published towards the end of 1 978, with subsequent volumes following at a bout 6- weekly intervals. 
It is planned to follow the Australian Capital Territory general reprint with general reprints of the Northern Territory laws and of the Commonwealth Statutory Rules, followed by further general reprints of the Acts and the other bodies of law at regular intervals. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to Question upon Notice No. 2364 asked by him and answered in the House of Representatives  Hansard  for 1 5 September 1971. The question was similar to the present question. The answer provided by the then Prime Minister remains applicable. Since that answer was given, the Commonwealth has not received an application by a State under section 1 1 9 of the Constitution for protection by the Commonwealth against domestic violence. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Acts listed below contain provisions that have the effect of requiring the consent of the Attorney-General to a prosecution for an offence against the Act or, where so indicated, against a provision of the Act. Some of the Acts also provide for consent to be given by persons authorised by the Attorney-General but there are no such authorisations. 
Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947, section 4 
Atomic Energy Act 1 953 
Boy Scouts' Association Act 1 924 
Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, Part IV, Divisions 2 and 3 
Crimes Act 1914, sections 24, 24AA, 24AB, Part VII; summary prosecutions under section 24c and 24d 
Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963 
Crimes (Biological Weapons) Act 1975 
Crimes ( Hijacking of Aircraft) Act 1 972 
Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Act 1976 
Crimes (Protection of Aircraft) Act 1972 
Defence (Special Undertakings) Act 1952 
Defence (Transitional Provisions) Act 1 946 
Family Law Act 1975, section 121 
Geneva Conventions Act 1 957, section 1 5 
Insurance Acts, 1973, (for offences more than 3 years old) 
International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963, section 12 
Navigation Act 1 9 1 2, section 208 
Patents Act 1 952, section 1 74 
Prices Justification Acts 1973 
Public Accounts Committee Act 1951 
Public Works Committee Act 1969 
Trading with the Enemy Act 1939, section 5. 
A list of Northern Territory Ordinances was prepared for the purposes of the Transfer of Powers (Further Provisions) Ordinance 1977 which gave effect to the Government's policy of transferring the Attorney-General's responsibilities under the criminal law of the Territory to the Northern Territory Executive. The relevant provisions are sections 204 and 279 of the Criminal Law Consolidation Act and Ordinance. 
Although a list covering Statutory Rules and the legislation of the other Territories has not been prepared, that legislation is being computerised and retrieval of the relevant information from the computer will be a relatively simple task. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
(a) There are five full-time staff employed on teamaking, one in Head Office and four in State offices. 
(b) There are sevenpart-time staff employed on teamaking, five in Head Office and two in the State offices. 
(i) The cost of salaries in the 1976-77 financial year was $77,938.08. 
(ii) There were no other charges in that year. Staff contributions met the cost of consumables. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Terrorist activities on 13 February 1978 threatened the safety of the visiting Heads of Government attending the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting in Australia. In calling out the Defence Force the Commonwealth acted in pursuance of its responsibilities under the Constitution, in particular, the defence and external affairs powers (section 5 1 ( vi) and (xxix) ) and the executive power (section 61). 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
1) At the time when the Order was made it was impossible to predict how long the situation giving rise to the Order and requiring the use of the Defence Force would continue. Accordingly, the Order was expressed to continue in force until revoked. The Order was in fact revoked on 20 February 1978. 
Not only were members of the Defence Force stationed outside New South Wales used under the Order but also some Heads of Government attending the Regional Meeting visited States other than New South Wales. 
No. 
-The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (5) The draft Bills mentioned in the question have been in the course of preparation for some years as a project of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. At the meeting of the Standing Committee on 30 June 1977 the hope was expressed that the Bills might be introduced before the end of 1 977 but this proved to be not possible. 
At a special meeting of the Standing Committee on 7-8 April 1978 it was agreed that the draft Bills should be amended in certain respects and then made available for public comment. I expect that they will be available for that purpose during May of this year. 
The Victorian Government has throughout played an active part in the preparation of the proposed legislation. I am not aware of any decision by that Government which contradicts any decision by the Standing Committee. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) to (3) It has been the policy and practice of all Governments since 1949 that details of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization or its operations are not disclosed. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1 978, page 978). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has advised that direct costs incurred by the Board in relation to the inquiry into  Mr Toomer's  case totalled about $11,500. (This figure covers fares, travelling allowances for the inquiry members and their support staff, transcription of evidence, witness expenses, and other miscellaneous costs. ) The persons conducting the inquiry, the staff assisting them (secretary to the inquiry, typists, et cetera), and most witnesses, were officers of the Public Service, whose normal salary arrangements were not varied by reason of their involvement with the inquiry. This involvement varied between a full-time and a part-time commitment during the inquiry (which continued for some five months), and records were not maintained which would enable an accurate costing of salaries to be provided. It may be of assistance, however, to the honourable member to know that the salary costs of the two persons conducting the inquiry and the Secretary attached to the inquiry would have amounted to approximately $25,000 over the period of the inquiry. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  ( 1 )-(5) The topics referred to are under discussion in the Standing Committee. However it would be contrary to the practice ofthe Standing Committee to refer to the details of current discussions in answer to a parliamentary question. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter was not brought to my attention, since there are no references in the Queensland Apprenticeships Act 1 964-73 to Aboriginals or Torres Strait Islanders. 
Yes. The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975 provides, inter alia, that an Aboriginal or Islander on a reserve is not required to comply with any direction to perform work on the reserve unless the direction is given in relation to the performance of reasonable community obligations or unless the work is in relation to an obligation that the Aboriginal would be obliged to perform if the direction were given outside the reserve. It appears, therefore, that provisions of the Queensland Apprenticeships Act relating to penalties for apprentices who fail to attend, or misbehave while attending prescribed classes are not inconsistent with the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act. 
Aborigines: Training as School Dental Therapists  (Question No. 188) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At present, there are ten dental therapy schools operating in Australia. Eligibility for admission is normally the satisfactory completion of secondary education. Currently, two Aboriginals are undertaking dental therapy training. Aboriginals who gain entrance to dental therapy courses are eligible for financial assistance under the NEAT and Aboriginal Study Grants schemes. 
I am informed that few Aboriginals have applied for admission to dental therapy schools. I will, however, raise with my colleague, the Minister for Health, the possibility of having a minimum quota of Aboriginals admitted to training as school dental therapists at no cost to the State. 
The Australian School Dental Scheme which is being developed co-operatively between the Commonwealth and State Governments aims to offer free dental care to all school children- including Aboriginal Australians- up to their fifteenth birthday. As the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  responded to your question, No. 189, on 16 March 1978: 
Coverage of the Scheme is progressively expanding and eligible Aboriginal children are currently receiving the same benefits as other school children. ' 
I regard it as appropriate that this Scheme should continue to include Aboriginal children. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, one house has been provided as at 30 June 1 977. 
Two houses will be provided in this financial year. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 468,  Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978. 
Government Offices: Tea Making and Distribution (Question No. SIO) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) (i) 2, (b) (i) Nil, (a) (ii) Nil, (b) (ii) 2. 
(i) $23,288.01, (ii) $677.78. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total Aboriginal population of the redistributed Electoral Division of Grey is not known as this information is not yet available from the Bureau of Statistics following the 1976 National Census. The 1971 National Census shows a total Aboriginal population figure for Grey of 3,415. The estimated Aboriginal population of the redistributed Division is 4,650. 
The Aboriginal populations of various towns and reserves cannot be stated until the 1976 National Census figures have been released. Estimated Aboriginal popu lations are: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Yes. (b) Yes. 
The Administrative Review Council was advised that there are no administrative tribunals operating within the Department or under legislation administered by me. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Yes. 
The Government's policy on Aboriginal land rights has been clearly stated, particularly in my second reading speech on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 and my statement of 23 August on the Government's uranium decisions. 
None. 
I am pleased to advise the honourable gentleman that, in the examination by the inter-departmental working party of the provision of interpreter and translation services, very serious consideration has been given to the position of Aboriginals. In many parts of Australia English is not the first language of Aboriginals. During the Prime Minister's visit to Alice Springs last week his speech had to be interpreted into three languages. That situation is multiplied in many other parts of the Northern Territory, as well as in Western Australia and Queensland. Therefore it makes good sense and it is necessary that the Government look not only at the need for interpreter and translation services for migrants whose first language is not English, but also at the needs of Aboriginal people. Within the inter-departmental working party an Aboriginal planning group has been established to look at this question. I am quite sure that out of the examination and the recommendations of that planning group will come some very worthwhile recommendations to extend the Government's planned interpreter and translation services to Aboriginals throughout Australia. 
I am glad to receive this question from the honourable member because a great deal of interest has been shown lately in what my colleague the Minister for Defence may be doing with regard to coastal surveillance. It needs to be recalled, as the honourable member has indicated, that along many parts of the coastline that need to be guarded against illegal entry almost exclusively the population is Aboriginal. It also needs to be recalled that in the last war the Aboriginal population in these areas was of great service to the defence forces of the country. 
Against that background, I can inform the House that already I have received from the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council,  Mr Galurrwuy  Yunupingu, and from other people in the northern parts of Australia an expression of interest in directly involving the Aboriginal population in the surveillance of those areas in conjunction with the activities of the Minister for Defence. A committee of permanent heads is currently examining future surveillance requirements of Australia, and after I made representations to my colleague I was advised that the possible involvement of Aboriginals as part of the civil population will almost certainly be taken into account. I was very pleased to receive that assurance. I know from my own discussions with the Northern Land Council and other Aboriginal communities that they are very interested in taking their place alongside other citizens of Australia in seeking to prevent illegal entry across the northern coastline of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nine. 
The officers concerned have come from the following departments and statutory authorities: 
Attorney-General's Department (2 officers) Department of Defence Department of Foreign Affairs Department of Industry and Commerce Department of Overseas Trade 
Department of Transport Industries Assistance Commission Public Service Board. 
Five. 
The employees concerned have come from the following companies: 
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. 
Freehill, Hollingdale and Page, Solicitors, Sydney 
ICI Australia Ltd. 
Mallesons, Solicitors, Melbourne 
Shell Australia Ltd. 
There is increasing interest in the Interchange Program in departments, statutory authorities and private industry. It is expected that the numbers of organisations and staff involved will increase significantly during 1 978. 
Yes, it is intended that tertiary education institutions will be involved in the Interchange Program. 
I thank the honourable member for his question because it enables me to repeat again, as I have repeated before, that the Commonwealth has consistently from the time when this issue arose stood by the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. We have consistently sought to gain substantial benefits for them against the position that they were faced with when the Queensland Government announced that it was going to take over the management of those two communities from the Uniting Church in Australia. What we have sought is to achieve self-management for those communities and also, when the reserve lands which had been set aside for those communities were abolished, security of that land for their traditional rights and their rights of use and occupation which they had enjoyed for so long. They have been the twin objectives. 
In the negotiations that I and my colleague, the Minister for Transport, had with Queensland Ministers- particularly on Thursday of last week- I think it will be seen when this matter has concluded that substantial gains will have been made for those communities. Last Thursday night the Prime Minister and I met with councillors from the Aurukun community for some two hours in the Cabinet room. The range of issues which were discussed included: The complexity of the legislation; the terms of the lease in contrast with a freehold title; the control of the land which would be in the hands of the communities themselves; the role of the advisory committees to support the shire councils and the membership of those committees; the relationship between the Queensland Government and the councils under local government legislation; and  the  power of the councils, particularly with regard to the by-laws. The Prime Minister had two hours ' valuable discussion with these people. 
I also take the opportunity to inform the House of the contents of a telegram received by the Prime Minister from the Reverend Roly Busch, the Moderator of the Uniting Church in Queensland. The telegram, which is not very long, stated: 
Queensland Synod is most appreciative or time you gave Aurukun and Church representatives in Canberra last Thursday evening. We recognise present negotiations with Queensland Government at a delicate stage but respect your assurances that your Government will act to ensure that Aurukun and Mornington Island people gain the selfmanagement and security of land that they so earnest seek. 
Discussions are going on between my officers and Queensland officers, consequent upon the discussions which  Mr Nixon  and I had in Brisbane last week. I hope that by the end of the week these matters will have been concluded after, if necessary, further discussions between myself and Queensland Ministers. 
I am not aware of the groups to which the honourable member refers, nor am I aware that any investigations have been authorised by the Attorney-General. However, I will direct the question to the Attorney-General and obtain an answer for the honourable member. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The amounts expended on fares and travelling allowances excluding car hire in 1 976-77 are set out below. 
Overseas travel, $82,926. 
b ) Domestic travel, $1,1 54,039. 
The percentages of the Department's expenditure on travel and subsistence, excluding car hire, were: 
Overseas, 6.7 per cent. 
Domestic, 93.3 per cent. 
Yes. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
My Department obtained a copy of the Royal Commission's report on 7 December 1977. 
The interdepartmental committee on South Sea Islanders was established in 1 975 on the initiative of the then Prime Minister, the  Hon.  E. G. Whitlam. Following the 1975 election, approval to continue the operation of the Committee was given by the Minister for Social Security in April 1976. 
The IDC comprised the Departments of Social Security (convenor), Prime Minister and Cabinet, Employment and Industrial Relations, Education and Aboriginal Affairs. 
The terms of reference of the Committee were as follows: 
to estimate the numbers of South Sea Islanders in Australia and examine their demographic distribution; 
to assess the economic and local characteristics of the Islanders and to decide if they are in any way disadvantaged as a group, relatively to other groups in the Australian community; and 
to evaluate their special needs, if any, and to recommend appropriate forms of government assistance to meet their needs. 
6) The IDC reported to the Minister for Social Security in July 1977. 
and (9) I understand that the Minister for Social Security is now considering possible action arising from the report of the IDC on South Sea Islanders and its recommendations and will be making an announcement soon. 
8 ) As the Government is still considering the report of the IDC the Queensland Government has not been given a copy of the report. I understand that the report of the Royal Commission was furnished to the Queensland Government early in December 1977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None of the States have introduced changes in their birth and death notification forms so that Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders may be separately identified. Several of the States, however, have suggested that they will follow the Federal Government's lead in this matter. In this connection, the Minister for the Northern Territory has advised the Minister for Health that appropriate amendments to birth and death notification forms in use in the Territory could be effected by administrative action. Accordingly, the Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages in the Northern Territory is in the process of adjusting the information sheets so that Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders may be separately identified. An amendment to the Australian Capital Territory Registration of Births and Marriages Ordinance 1963 is required to enable Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders to be identified. My colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory has informed me that a Bill for an Ordinance is being drafted for presentation to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
The report of the Copyright Law Committee on Reprographic Reproduction (the Franki Committee) contained certain proposals with regard to the copying of authors' publications in educational institutions. My predecessor as Attorney-General took steps to explore with the persons and groups mentioned the question whether a consensus existed in regard to the proposals or was achievable. 
While there is a large measure of agreement, differing views are held on some aspects of the matter. 1 am hopeful however that the Government will soon be able to introduce legislation that will receive support from most of the interested persons and groups. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
Yes. 
The subject of artificial insemination was considered by the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General in February 1978. The legal, medical and social issues arising from the practice of artificial insemination are extremely complex and warrant investigation by a law reform commission. Commonwealth and State Ministers with responsibilities for health and welfare matters are currently being consulted on appropriate terms of reference for such an inquiry. 
The Standing Committee also has under consideration, as a separate exercise, a review of existing State legislation on the status of children to see whether a uniform approach is possible. Furthermore, the Commonwealth is currently preparing legislation to abolish the status of illegitimacy for the purpose of Commonwealth legislation and in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Department of the Treasury: Domestic Air Travel (Question No. 446) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments made to airlines in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of my Department were: 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 

 Mr Justice Staples arrived in Vancouver from Australia on 5 July 1977. In Canada he visited the cities of Vancouver, Victoria, Calgary, Edmonton, Saskatoon, Regina, Winnipeg, Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, Quebec and Halifax. In those cities  His  Honour met with Government officials, judges, institutions and groups concerned with human rights. These meetings were arranged by the Australian Consul-General through the Canadian Depanment of External Affairs.  His  Honour entered the United States of America on 1 December 1977 where he visited, on the East Coast, the cities of Washington, New York, Boston, Albany and Philadelphia. In the south he has visited the States of Tennesee, Mississippi and Louisiana. He has met with legislators, judges, lawyers, police officers, civil rights and race relations workers, and legal aid bodies and has had discussions with officers of the State Department, the Department of Justice, Depanment of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service, the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission, the National Labor Relations Board, the Federal Contracts Compliance Program, the Women's Bureau of the U.S. Depanment of Labor, the Library of Congress, and a number of other agencies, and has had discussions with officers of the Supreme Court of the United States, and several other courts, civil and criminal. The Judge departed Washington on 17 April 1978 for Dublin where he will commence the European pan of his inquiry. 
The dates and the subjects of the reports that have been received from  Mr Justice  Staples are listed hereunder: 
September 1977-Arrest and Bail. The Bail Reform Act of Canada and its relevance to the Criminal Investigation Bill 1977. 
September 1977- A Lawyers Canadian Scrapbook, August-September 1977. 
October 1 977- Civilian Prosecutors in Canadian Courts. 
October 1977-The Canadian Concept of Human Rights. A handbook for Australian legislators, Volume 1 -the ideas, Volume 2- the activity. 
Weedicides: Possible Association with Birth Defects (Question No. 784) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not aware of any such proposals. 
The Western Australian Minister for Community Welfare has communicated with me about proposals to amend the Regulations made under the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority Act in relation to the authorisation of entry to Aboriginal reserves in Western Australia. Consultations are continuing. The Western Australian Government is also consulting with the Western Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust. 
I will inform the House at the appropriate time of any significant developments in this matter known to me. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Governor-General signed agreements, pursuant to the Aboriginal Affairs (Arrangements with the States) Act 1973, with the Governors of four States as follows: 
Western Australia- agreement signed on 3 April 1974; 
South Australia- agreement signed on 14 February 1975; 
New South Wales- agreement signed on 30 September 1975; 
Victoria- agreement signed on 22 November 1974. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. I am informed that the activities of the two persons involve offences against State laws so that a request from the State concerned to initiate extradition proceedings would be essential. I have not yet received such a request. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act 1976 1 present the report of the Aboriginal Loans Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by  Mr Shann  Turnbull made on behalf of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on the impact of mining royalties on Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill 1978, and amends the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975. The principal Act provides for the review of administrative decisions by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The Government considers that the Tribunal should not have jurisdiction to review decisions made under statutory powers conferred by Northern Territory laws in respect of matters within the authority of the Territory Government. The Bill will remove the present ability to confer such jurisdiction on the Tribunal. 
However, the Bill provides that regulations may be made conferring rights of appeal to the Tribunal in respect of decisions made under Territory laws that will continue to be administered by the Commonwealth Government. Certain existing provisions of Territory law which confer jurisdiction of this kind are to be continued in force. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill 1978. It amends the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977,- and is to come into operation on the date upon which the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act itself comes into operation. That will not occur before 1 July 1978. 
The Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act provides for review by the Federal Court of Australia of certain administrative decisions. The Government considers that the Federal Court should not be given jurisdiction to review dicisions made under statutory powers conferred by Northern Territory laws in respect of matters within the authority of the Northern Territory government. However, the Bill provides that regulations may be made conferring rights of review by the Federal Court of decisions made under Northern Territory laws that will continue to be administered by the Commonwealth Government. 
The Government considers, also, that when he is acting in his capacity as Administrator of the Northern Territory, decisions made by the Administrator should not be subject to review by the Federal Court. Decisions of the GovernorGeneral and of the State Governors are likewise not subject to review. Since the Administrator's powers, as Administrator, flow from the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act, the Bill will exclude from review by the Federal Court all decisions made under that Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill 1978 and amends the Commonwealth Motor Vehicles (Liability) Act 1959. That Act makes provision regarding claims for damages against the Commonwealth, or a Commonwealth statutory authority, caused by its vehicles. It is not appropriate for the Act to apply to statutory authorities which are created by Northern Territory laws and which are under the administrative control of the Territory government. Under this Bill, such statutory authorities will cease to be authorities to which the Act applies. 
However, there will be a small number of Territory statutory authorities which will remain under Commonwealth control and the principal Act should continue to apply to them. For this reason, the Bill provides for the making of regulations declaring a Territory statutory authority to be a Commonwealth authority for the purposes of the Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second lime. 
As indicated by my colleague, the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  this Bill is consequential upon the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill 1978. The main purpose of the Bill is to ensure the continued application of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971, after 1 July 1978, to members of the Public Service of the Northern Territory and certain other persons who are currently entitled to receive benefits under that Act. The Bill also provides that any payments of compensation under the principal Act made as a result of this legislation shall be payable by the Northern Territory and not by the Commonwealth Government. The amending legislation is intended to come into operation on 1 July 1978. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of  Mr N.  M. Butcher, made on behalf of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, on the greater involvement of Aboriginals in the economy of the Pilbara and Kimberley regions. 
I wish to reply on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and speak shortly in regard to each of the amendments, the amendment to the Fisheries Amendment Bill and the foreshadowed amendment to the Whaling Amendment Bill. The amendment proposed to the Fisheries Amendment Bill is quite unnecessary for it adds nothing to the Bill. As the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  said in his contribution to this debate, the matter has already been covered by the Minister in his second reading speech where he said: 
In establishing the Australian fishing zone it is the Government 's intention to ensure that fisheries of this zone are developed and managed in the long term interests of Australia and Australians. Australian fishermen and fishing enterprises will be encouraged to develop the resources of the zone. 
The Minister also referred to the obligation which Australia accepts when extending its fishing jurisdiction to 200 miles. That is an obligation to permit foreigners to take surplus fisheries resources which Australians cannot or do not wish to take. I emphasise that so far as Australia is concerned, foreign participation will be on terms and conditions determined by Australia and in the long term interests of Australia and Australians. I think it can be clearly seen that the matters which the Opposition canvasses in its proposed amendment are already very much in the forefront of the mind of the Government and have been covered quite adequately by the Minister in his second reading speech. With regard to the foreshadowed amendment to the Whaling Amendment Bill, I can say on behalf of the Minister that we are pleased to know that the Opposition supports the independent inquiry into whales and whaling instituted by the Government. I think the fact that we have instituted that inquiry shows the seriousness with which the Government has approached the opposition by the Australian and international community to excessive whaling. So it can be seen that there is no need for the Opposition's amendment. 
The terms of reference of the inquiry are very wide. I point out to the Opposition that those terms have been welcomed by Project Jonah and also other environmental groups. It also ought to be observed that the inquiry has already begun. It will not be waiting until August as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  suggested. With regard to the particular matter referred to in the foreshadowed amendment relating to employment in the Albany region, I remind the Opposition that the terms of reference already require the judge to report on economic, employment and other effects on the Albany region should a cessation of whaling be recommended. I am quite sure that those terms of reference are adequate for the judge and that he will be able to direct his attention to the implications for employment of any cessation of whaling, if that should be recommended. I also add that the purpose of the Bill currently before the House is not to canvass the whaling issue or the pre-empt the inquiry. That is a separate issue. Its purpose is to extend Australian jurisdiction to 200 miles and to that extent, although the remarks of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and also the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  may be of some interest, they are totally irrelevant to the substance of the Bill. It is for that reason that the Government does not accept either the amendment to the Fisheries Amendment Bill or to the Whaling Amendment Bill, as proposed by the Opposition. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the motion to take note of papers relating to the Australian Science and Technology Council, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the measures at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the two orders of the day to be discussed in this debate. 
I am not sure that I should carry the burden of the infinite wisdom which the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  suggests I have, more particularly when I regret to advise him that I am not prepared to accept the Opposition's amendments. I suppose the inference to be drawn is that I am a very unwise person. With due respect to members of the Opposition, both young and old, I suggest to them that it is a very grave mistake to think that members of parliament, simply because they are members of parliament, are expert in everything and, therefore, ought to be made members of every body, statutory or otherwise, created by the Parliament. 
It appears to me that of all the amendments put forward by the Opposition there were only two that they sought to put forward with any vigour or any desire to have carried. The first was in their rewriting of clause 5, which sets out the functions of the Council. I must say, after listening to members of the Opposition from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  down, that they clearly have not read clause 5. They have ignored it completely and have sought to rewrite it. It is a simple matter of drafting for them to have understood that the functions are described in the widest terms. The very generality of those functions is specified by way of including, not' limiting, certain matters to which the Council can direct its attention. Clause 5 states that the functions of the Council are to investigate and to furnish information and advice to the Commonwealth Government in respect of matters relating to science and technology. That is across the widest area of science and technology. The clause then goes on to specify particular matters that are included in the generality and to which the Council's attention is directed. All those particular matters are very wide in their terms. For example, some matters are: The advancement of scientific knowledge, the development and application of science and technology in relation to the furtherance of the national wellbeing, and the identification and support of new ideas in science and technology likely to be of national importance. 
So, when we hear the criticism of the Leader of the Opposition and of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  who said that too much attention was being given to science and technology with respect to industry, I think all we need to do is to turn to the language of clause 5. There we see the breadth of functions that the Council is given and the breadth of the particular matters to which the Council is being invited to pay attention. I noticed with some interest that the Opposition, in its rewriting of those functions, adopted what is sub-clause (f) of clause 5 when referring to the fostering of scientific and technological innovation in industry. Far from there being over-emphasis upon science and technology in industry, that is the only part of that clause which refers to industry. As I pointed out, that sub-clause has been completely adopted by the Opposition. 
I thank the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  for his contribution to this debate and for pointing out the things that I have pointed out as to the inadequacy of the Opposition's treatment of clause 5 and of other parts of this Bill. It was the honourable member for Maribyrnong who said that one of the defects of the Bill was that it did not allow, for example, the Council to investigate such matters as genetic engineering. I advise him that the fact of the matter is that the Australian Science and Technology Council currently has a sub-committee dealing with the necessary care to be used in research in genetic engineering. That demonstrates the wide purview of the existing terms of reference that are given by this Bill to the Australian Science and Technology Council. I think it can be seen that the Bill provides all the necessary and extensive authority to the Council to investigate matters of scientific and technological relevance to the national well-being and matters which, in their widest understanding, are of national importance. 
The other matter on which the Opposition seemed to concentrate its attention was the membership of the Council. I regret to say that Opposition members seemed to miss completely the point of the provision in the Bill authorising the membership of the Council. Quite deliberately, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his second reading speech: 
Members of the Council will be selected for their personal qualities rather than as representatives of organisations or interests. 
I would have thought that for a body such as this Council the overriding consideration would be that the members of the Council be selected for their personal qualities rather than representing any particular organisation or interest. We know from wide experience in government that if people are selected as representatives of organisations or interests they are not necessarily the people with the appropriate qualities for the particular job in hand. I have already referred to the suggestion from honourable members opposite that members of Parliament have the qualities necessary for membership of this Council. As I understand their argument, they were saying that because members of Parliament are representatives of the people, therefore they ought by right to be members of this science Council. I think the proposal needs only to be stated, as I have done, for the inadequacy of it to be shown. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  referred to his past membership of the Australia Council Music Board and of the Australian Film Development Corporation. As admirable and valuable as that membership may have been I challenge the validity of his analogy to the Australian Science and Technology Council. It shows a misunderstanding of the nature and function of the Council. As honourable members can judge from what I have said, it is a specialist advisory body; it is not an executive body. Being a specialist advisory body, in the Government's judgment it requires as members persons selected for their personal qualities. For those reasons the proposed amendments dealing with those two matters are not accepted by the Government, nor are the other amendments proposed by the Opposition accepted by the Government. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I know of the interest that he has shown right from the beginning of this issue concerning Aurukun and Mornington Island. It is important to the Commonwealth that steps are taken right from the start to see that the Commonwealth's policy of self-management is implemented effectively in these two communities under the legislation which has been passed by the Queensland Parliament. I have already advised the Queensland Ministers,  Mr Porter  and  Mr Hinze,  that in the Commonwealth 's view the first step should be the appointment of the advisory committees for each community, for those committees are intended to assist the communities in their role of self-management. If this legislation is to get off to an effective and early start it is necessary that those committees be established immediately. 
I also inform the House that officers from my Department are already in both communities and working actively with the councils there, seeing that they are fully informed of the Commonwealth's views and the assistance that the Commonwealth can give in the implementation of this legislation. It is of the utmost importance that both governments keep in the closest contact and communication with each community so that they are fully informed of the intentions of both governments. Unless that is done the legislation might well get away to a shaky start, and I know that both governments are anxious that it get away to an effective start. 
The other important part of the honourable gentleman's question concerned security of tenure. That, of course, is vital to both communities. It requires the issue of 50-year leases on the terms and conditions stated in the legislation. I am anxious that the leases be issued at the earliest possible date so as to ensure that the two communities have the security over their land which they desire. I am personally keeping in the closest contact with what is happening. I am getting daily reports from both communities. I am aware that they are concerned to know how the legislation will be implemented. From communications that I received yesterday I know that they are anxious to be fully informed by both governments of the intentions of each government. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner made to myself and to the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  on the Borroloola land claim. I seek leave to make a statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
-I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the report of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner I am presenting is the first report submitted by the Commissioner since the Aboriginal Land Rights Act has been in force. Members will recall that the Aboriginal Land Rights Act, which was passed late in 1976 and proclaimed on Australia Day 1 977, provided for the appointment of an Aboriginal Land Commissioner whose functions include the preparation of reports on applications made to him on behalf of Aboriginals claiming to have a traditional land claim to an area of land being either unalienated crown land or alienated crown land in which all estates and interests not held by the crown are held by or on behalf of Aboriginals. The Commissioner also has other functions, including inquiring into the likely extent of traditional land claims in the Northern Territory, the establishment and maintenance of a register of traditional land claims and to advise myself or my colleague, the Minister for the Northern Territory, in connection with matters which might be referred to him by myself or my colleague. 
A leading member of the Western Australian Bar,  Mr John  Toohey, Q.C., having been appointed a judge of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, was appointed as the Aboriginal Land Commissioner on 7 April 1977.  (Quorum formed).  The Northern Land Council, on behalf of Aboriginals claiming to have a traditional land claim in the Borroloola area of the Northern Territory, submitted a claim to the Aboriginal Land Commissioner on 27 July 1977 and the hearings of the application began in Darwin on 27 September last and hearings continued in Darwin and Borroloola until 15 December. The Commissioner invited persons and organisations to appear before him and, as a consequence, apart from the Northern Land Council on behalf of the claimants, Mount Isa Mines Limited, Dampier Mining Company Limited and persons holding leases or licences on areas the subject of the claim or adjacent thereto, appeared before the Commissioner. As well, such organisations as the Northern Territory Commercial Fishermen's Association, the Northern Territory Fishing Industry Council, M. G. Kailis Gulf Fisheries Pty Ltd, and the Northern Territory Cattle Producers Association appeared or were represented before the Commissioner and submissions were presented to the Commission by the Commonwealth and by the Department of the Chief Secretary of the Northern Territory. 
The areas claimed covered vacant crown land known as the Borroloola Town Common which, as will be seen from the map in the report, surrounds the town of Borroloola, vacant crown land known as the  Sir Edward  Pellew Group of Islands and vacant crown land on the Robinson River pastoral lease which had been excised from the pastoral lease many years ago with the intention of creating an Aboriginal reserve. With the exception of a large portion of South West Island in the  Sir Edward  Pellew Group and the proposed Aboriginal reserve on the Robinson River pastoral lease, the Commissioner found that the claimants were the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land claimed. Concerning the exceptions, the Commissioner was unable to find that there were traditional Aboriginal owners. 
The Commissioner has recommended that Vanderlin Island and West Island be granted to a land trust and that the unalienated crown land on the Borroloola Town Common be granted to a land trust. I have accepted the Commissioner's recommendations and will, accordingly, establish these land trusts and will recommend to the Governor-General that a grant of an estate in fee simple for that land be made under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act to the land trusts as set out above. The Commissioner had to consider whether an occupation licence or a grazing licence constituted an estate or interest under the Act. Section 50 of the Act provides that the Commissioner may hear an application relating to land which is unalienated crown land. Unalienated crown land is, in the Act, denned as meaning: 
Crown land in which no persons other than the Crown has an estate or interest. 
The Commissioner, whilst indicating that in this particular case he did not need to determine the matter, expressed the opinion that 'neither form of licence constitutes an estate or interest in the land and each, therefore, is unalienated crown land'. This matter has been considered by the legal advisers to the Government and consideration is being given to the views expressed by the Commissioner. The Commissioner gave consideration as to whether any grant of land in respect of the Islands should extend to the high water mark. Taking into account the fact that the Land Rights Act had provided for the low water mark as the boundary for land in Schedule I of the Act, the Commissioner has similarly fixed low water mark in his recommendations. I accept his recommendation. 
I should point out to honourable members that two paragraphs in the Commissioner's report, which give details of an agreement between Mount Isa Mines and the Commonwealth, have been deleted from the published document in view of the confidentiality of some of the material included in these paragraphs. 
The Commissioner gave consideration to the need to provide access corridors across the Borroloola Town Common to provide for movement of stock and for any future requirements for the movement of minerals should the McArthur River deposit be developed by Mount Isa Mines. The Commissioner commented that these needs could be satisfied by the reservation of a strip, approximately one kilometre wide, to provide a transport corridor and to provide holding yards, et cetera. I have sought some further information on this matter and will make an early decision on the need for such corridors in the light of this further information. 
I might add as a matter of interest to honourable members that the Land Commissioner is about to complete his hearing of the second claim to come before him- that of the Warlpiri people of the Tanami Desert. The claim covers the Tanami Desert Wildlife Sanctuary and unalienated crown land to the north and west of the Sanctuary, as well as a smaller area of unalienated crown land to the north of Haasts Bluff Reserve. Honourable members will see that the operations of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act are underway and continuing. In conclusion, I would indicate to honourable members that I would intend to table all future significant reports of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner for the information of the House. I present the following papen 
Aboriginal Land Rights: Report on the Borroloola Land Claim, Ministerial Statement, 26 May 1978. 
Motion ( by  Mr Hunt)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-On behalf of the AttorneyGeneral, I can answer the question asked by the honourable gentleman. I know that since taking office the Attorney-General has expressed publicly on a number of occasions his interest in having a general review of the Family Law Act. The matter was considered recently by the Government. The Attorney-General will be presenting a submission to the Government in the very near future on the way in which the review can be conducted. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his question because it affords me an opportunity to deny in the most unequivocal terms that the present Government- indeed I expect this would be so of any government in Australiawill have a policy of apartheid or separate development for Aborigines. Both I and the Prime Minister have very firmly said on previous occasions that that is not the policy of this Government. I have noticed from Press reports that the National Front representatives in Australia have said that they propose to give a better deal to Aborigines. Then it was revealed that the better deal was a policy of apartheid. 
Might I take the opportunity also to counsel people who are commenting on Aboriginal affairs policy in Australia and claiming that in the area of land rights there is a suggestion of separatism. Our policy in that area is not one of separatism; it is a policy which recognises the particular and special relationship which Aborigines have for land which has been their traditional land. I might say also that if anyone suggests that the land rights policy, particularly the kind of land rights which this Government has introduced in the Northern Territory, is a policy of separatism he might just as well say that the policies of all governments, both State and Commonwealth, for the past 60-odd years which set aside special areas as reserves are policies of separatism. I think that when the land rights policy of the present Government, as shown through the land rights legislation, is properly understood it will be seen that it not only acknowledges the Aborigines traditional relationship with land but also can provide the Aborigines, on a basis of equality, with a firm economic foundation for their future development. 
Having answered that question,  Mr Speaker,  might I have the indulgence of the House to add a couple of words to the answer which I gave to the honourable member for Tangney? I should have advised the honourable member that the general review which the Attorney-General has under consideration is a review by a parliamentary committee. 
Upon my return from overseas yesterday I became aware of action at Oombulgurri concerning the continued work there of the Institute of Cultural Affairs. I sought some advice from my Department as to the background of this work. My Department certainly did not eject representatives of ICA from Oombulgurri. I am advised that at a meeting of 57 adult community members the decision of the council of the community to dismiss the ICA was unanimously endorsed. The personnel of the ICA left on Wednesday 3 1 May. Officers of my Department were present at the time as well as representatives from the Aboriginal Legal Service, the National Aboriginal Conference and the Anglican Church. My advice is that this was entirely a decision of the Aboriginal people themselves. However, I am advised also that on Friday 2 June, the Aboriginal community held a meeting at which it was decided to invite the ICA to return to Oombulgurri subject to its meeting certain conditions. These conditions related to a reduction in the number of personnel, who should be suitably qualified, that they should operate under a contract, that they should provide training for Aboriginals in necessary skills and that they should abide by council decisions. I am advised that officers of my Department are travelling to Oombulgurri to undertake a general review of the situation and the events of last week. It will be seen that my Department, as I said, certainly did not eject the ICA but was acting in support of the community in whatever decisions it made. 
The honourable gentleman referred also to the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities. In relation to recent developments there, I am advised that last Thursday a very successful meeting was held between leaders from both those communities and the Queensland Minister for Local Government,  Mr Hinze,  and the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement,  Mr Porter.  I understand that my colleague the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who was acting for me last week, spoke to  Mr Hinze  after that meeting and that  Mr Hinze  was very pleased with the way the meeting went. My Department was also advised - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I am pleased to introduce this Bill which makes a number of changes to the Public Service Act that will be particularly welcomed by members of the Australian Public Service. The Bill deals with a wide range of matters and is in fact the most substantial amendment to the Public Service Act since that Act was passed in 1922. Also, many of the provisions are necessarily quite complex, and public servants could be expected to seek an opportunity to study the impact of legislation so vital to their lives and careers. Accordingly, it is the Government's intention to allow the Bill to lie on the table over the winter recess for public and parliamentary examination. Before the Bill is fully debated in the Budget session, the Government will fully take into account all representations received from the public or interested organisations. 
The major parts of the Bill concern, firstly, the rights of officers of the Australian Public Service who move to other areas of Commonwealth employment and, secondly, the disciplinary provisions applicable to Public Service Act staff. These and some other parts of the Bill are based on proposals put forward by the Joint Council, an employer-employee body established under the Public Service Act to examine matters of general interest throughout the Public Service. The Government is very conscious and appreciative of the valuable work undertaken by Joint Council, which in fact held its 59th meeting in Darwin last week. The Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration recommended an expanded role for the Joint Council and the establishment of consultative processes within Departments, and the Government is awaiting a report on these recommendations from the Public Service Board, after the Board has completed discussions with employee organisations, departments and authorities. 
I turn now to those parts of the Bill- primarily clause 3 1 -which relate to the rights of officers of the Australian Public Service who move to other areas of Commonwealth employment. In this regard, the Commonwealth is conscious of the need to encourage mobility within the Commonwealth employment sector and of the significant advantages that derive from such mobility. The Government's intention is that the provisions in this Bill should assist officers to gain appropriate experience outside the Public Service properthat is to say, the central Public Service- without loss of their Public Service rights. This entitlement, however, will not be at the expense of the rights of officers who remain in the Public Service. This part of the Bill is based on the report of a sub-committee of the Joint Council set up to review the Officers' Rights Declaration Act, an Act which currently specifies the rights of staff who move from the Public Service to some other area of Commonwealth employment. The review was proposed by the Public Service Board against the background that the present Act presents numerous technical difficulties of a legal and administrative nature and that changes in the size and nature of Commonwealth Government employment have also meant that it is now operating in quite a different situation from that which existed in 1928, when the Act was introduced. 
Two of the main difficulties with the present Act concern, firstly, the loss of promotion and promotion appeal opportunities in the Public Service of public servants upon taking up employment in an authority and,' secondly, the unfettered right of such persons to be reappointed to a position in the Public Service whether or not an appropriate vacancy exists at the relevant time. The new scheme proposed by the Joint Council to replace the existing Act overcomes these difficulties by adopting a 'two tier' approach. The first tier covers officers who join a Commonwealth authority for periods of up to three years. It provides for leave without pay from the Public Service, with the preservation of all of the rights normally applied to staff on leave without pay. The second tier covers those who at the end of the initial three-year period decide to stay with the authority. It provides that these officers sever their direct connection with the Public Service but retain certain specified rights such as the right to apply for transfer and promotion to Public Service positions in accordance with the normal merit procedures set out in the Public Service Act. 
The Joint Council also proposed that officers who are appointed by the Governor-General or a Minister to a statutory office should be covered by the first tier for the duration of their term of office. In addition, the Joint Council recommended that, where officers are transferred out of the Public Service to an independently staffed authority as a result of the transfer of functions to that authority, the second tier should apply to cover the Public Service rights of transferred officers. The Bill reflects these recommendations of the Joint Council. The Government's intention is that the new scheme should apply to all officers of the Public Service who take up employment outside the Public Service Act with Commonwealth authorities and bodies, including Commonwealth owned companies such as Qantas Airways Ltd and Commonwealth Hostels Limited, and, with their agreement, joint Commonwealth-State bodies. 
Provision is made in the Bill so that the scheme recommended by the Joint Council may be extended to non-Commonwealth employment in certain circumstances. For example, the Government has in mind applying the provisions to the transfer of staff of the Australian Legal Aid Office to the States. However, it is not intended at this stage to extend the scheme beyond situations such as the ALAO transfer. The Government's policy is that, from the commencing day of the new scheme, the present Officers' Rights Declaration Act will no longer be available in relation to officers of the Public Service who take up employment with Commonwealth authorities after that date. The present Act will continue to have effect in relation to persons who, on commencing day, are covered by that Act. However, these persons may at any time thereafter elect to be covered by the new provisions. In addition, where such persons exercise the right of promotion appeal in relation to a Public Service vacancy, that action will constitute an election to be covered by the new scheme. 
The opportunity has also been taken to correct certain inequities and administrative problems that inadvertently occurred in relation to the transfer of staff of the former PostmasterGeneral's Department to the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions. In addition, provision is made so that various other particular transfers of staff from the Public Service to Commonwealth authorities which have occurred while this Bill has been in the course of preparation may be brought within the provisions of the second tier. These transfers, all of which have occurred as a result of the transfer of functions from the Public Service to a new employing authority, include the transfer of staff to the Northern Territory Public Service, the transfer of staff of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to the National Gallery, and the transfer of canteen staff of various departments to Commonwealth Hostels Limited. 
I turn now to the other major part of the Bill, namely the revised disciplinary arrangements, located primarily in clause 20. The disciplinary provisions in the Public Service Act have remained virtually unchanged since 1922, and a sub-committee of the Joint Council undertook a comprehensive review, aimed at bringing the provisions into line with modern concepts of the role of the disciplinary process in public administration. 
The report is based on the adoption of certain fundamental principles which have been accepted by the Joint Council, the Board, and now the Government. These principles can be summed up in the following way: The primary aim of disciplinary provisions should be to facilitate efficient administration and public confidence in the integrity of the administration; there should be no unnecessary concern with the private lives of staff members; provisions should be seen as a complement to other management processes of supervision, leadership and staff counselling, with disciplinary action generally being a last resort; the disciplinary process should continue to be essentially administrative rather than judicial, but the principles of natural justice and fairness should be observed. The new disciplinary code in the Bill makes various changes to the current scheme, which take into account the principles I have just mentioned and which are designed to make the disciplinary process function more efficiently and effectively. 
I might briefly mention some of the more important changes. Consistent with the approach that disciplinary provisions are an integral part of the management process, there is greater emphasis on the primary role of departments. In particular, powers now exercisable by the Board in relation to disciplinary action following a criminal conviction, and certain suspension matters, will in future be the responsibility of departments. Greater emphasis is placed on specification of the rights of persons against whom disciplinary action is taken, including such matters as rights of reply to charges, entitlements to reasons for decisions, extension of appeal rights to cover all formal disciplinary action, and provisions enabling findings to be reviewed when new evidence comes to light. So as to emphasise the principle that there should be no unnecessary concern with the private lives of staff members, disciplinary action based on 'improper conduct' will be possible only where the conduct is relevant to the officer as an officer, and a similar approach is taken to possible disciplinary action following a criminal offence. 
New provisions have been included to avoid the need to use the full disciplinary processes where officers absent themselves from duty without authority. Action will be able to be taken that will have the effect of deeming such persons to have forfeited their office. There will, however, be appeal rights. The proposed changes have been generally endorsed in the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. The Royal Commission also was of the view the special disciplinary provisions in section 56 of the Public Service Act relating to First and Second Division officers should not continue to apply to Second Division officers. In the Bill, Second Division officers are grouped with Third and Fourth Division officers for disciplinary purposes. Special provisions will continue to apply to First Division officers. These are similar to current section 56, but do make some changes; in particular, the entitlement of any person to formally charge an officer under section 56 is considered to be inappropriate and has been deleted, although the Bill, in proposed section 57, gives statutory recognition to the right of any person to make an allegation. 
A number of other proposals are included in the Bill. Clauses 25 to 27 replace the existing specific provisions in the Public Service Act enabling the Board to grant leave without pay with a general power vested in departments to grant leave for such purposes as are prescribed in the regulations and on such terms and conditions as are prescribed. Within guidelines which the Board proposes to issue, departments will have greater flexibility under the new provision in organising their resources. Joint Council proposals in relation to recognition of prior service and recreation leave arrangements are implemented in clauses 15 and 23 respectively. Clause 8 implements a recommendation of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration that current restrictions on the appointment of graduates to the Public Service should be eliminated. Clauses 9 to 14 will enable the Public Service Board to waive the normal probationary requirements for officers of the Service in appropriate cases. Other changes of a more technical nature are also included. 
The Bill is long, and many of the provisions are quite technical. Several factors have contributed to this, including the number of separate proposals incorporated in the Bill, the need to apply the new provisions dealing with mobility of officers to a number of existing situations, and the technical complexities arising from the current legislative framework of Commonwealth employment. A detailed explanatory memorandum has been distributed in order to assist honourable members and other interested parties to understand the Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I will indicate briefly the Government's attitude to the amendments. As the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  has already said, the amendments are the same as those put forward by him on 3 and 10 May during the debate on another Bill earlier this year, that is, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill. On that occasion the amendments were rejected by the Government and likewise they are rejected on this occasion. There is no need for me to elaborate on the reasons. We are quite satisfied that the Government's legislation is effective and in the interests of Aboriginals and that it protects and satisfies their interests. I noticed with some interest references by the honourable member to speeches on mineral matters that I made in this House when in Opposition. Of course, it does not take very much to discern the attempt on the part of the Opposition to denigrate my efforts for Aboriginals as a Minister because of things that I said concerning mining matters when in Opposition. By any measure, when the Opposition looks at the alacrity with which I and the Government moved in the Aurukun bauxite situation in 1976 it could not deny the bona fides of this Government to act promptly for Aboriginal interests against the interests of a State. 
As I have pointed out to the Committee before, my visit to Aurukun in January 1976 not only occurred on my birthday, and I stayed there overnight on 2 1 January, but it happened also to be the first visit to Aurukun by a Federal Minister. On that occasion statements by myself and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  quite firmly indicated to the Queensland Government that we were not satisfied with the agreement that Government had entered into with respect to the mining of bauxite at Aurukun and that we would support Aboriginals in their endeavour to have proper consultation with both the Government and the Aurukun mining consortium. We were not satisfied that proper consultation had been carried out. Our view was vindicated by none other than the Queensland Ombudsman, who made his own independent investigation and told the Queensland Parliament that he was not satisfied that proper consultation had been carried out. More than that, the Commonwealth, through the Queensland Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, funded litigation by the community first of all to the Queensland Supreme Court and then, when the judgment of that Court in favour of the Aurukun community was under challenge by the Queensland Government in the Privy Council, the Commonwealth funded the defence by the community. If I could use a colloquialism, we put our money where our mouth is as a Commonwealth Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
I have said on a number of occasions that my understanding of the economics of the bauxite industry today clearly indicates that it is most unlikely that the bauxite at Aurukun will ever be mined. I noticed over the weekend a statement by a Queensland Government back-bencher,  Dr Scott-  Young, that it was his understanding on information that had been given to him, quite obviously from the mining consortium, that the consortium had either abandoned or was about to abandon any idea of mining the bauxite. I can well understand the decision by the consortium, if it does decide to abandon mining. As I have said, on my own knowledge of the industry and of the world-wide economics of the industry, it is most unlikely that bauxite will ever be mined at Aurukun. Again, the alacrity with which the Government responded in the Aurukun and Mornington Island situation shows how we were prepared publicly to oppose a State government when we saw that the interests of Aboriginals were being overridden. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
The transparency of the Opposition in moving these amendments has been amply demonstrated by what has been said by the shadow minister for Aboriginal Affairs the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  in support of the amendments.  (Quorum formed).  I was showing how transparent is the move by the Opposition in respect of these amendments by pointing to the fact that it has no objection at all to the Bill or to any of its detailed provisions. All the amendments which it is moving were moved in 1976 when the principal Act was introduced and passed by this House. A new argument has not been put forward by the Opposition today in support of the amendments moved by it in 1976. So inadequate is the Opposition's preparation for its action in moving these amendments again that it has completely overlooked what it is doing by moving proposed amendment 18, which seeks to include in schedule I of the Act a description of land known as the Tanami Desert. For the information of members of the Opposition I indicate that there is presently before the Aboriginal Land Commission a claim under the Act to the Tanami Desert area, that is, the area that the Opposition now seeks to include in the Act by amendment. I think the hearing has been completed. 
In reply to all that the members of the Opposition have said, I just point out that the legislation is working and working well. The first report of the Land Commissioner on the Borroloola land claim has been completed. The recommendations have been accepted by me and reported to this Parliament and are being acted upon. The Northern Land Council is actively involved in negotiations with respect to uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers province. The Central Land Council has been approached with regard to petroleum exploration in its area. Land trusts shortly will be created to which title to land can be passed under the legislation. A new land council- the Tiwi Land Council- is to be established as authorised by the Land Rights Act for the people of Bathurst Island and the Snake Bay and Garden Point communities. It can be seen how shallow and false is the move by the Opposition today in putting forward the same amendments that were put forward and rejected by this Parliament in 1976. As I have said, the Opposition acknowledges that it accepts the principle of the Bill and all the detailed provisions of it. It seeks to make no amendments to those provisions. It is simply repeating amendments which were rejected by this chamber in 1976. Therefore the Government has no hesitation in rejecting those amendments again today. 
I seek leave of the House to move the third reading forthwith. 
Pursuant to contingent notices of motion, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the remaining stages of the Bill being passed without delay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No accurate estimate can be given of the extent of compliance (or non-compliance) with the provisions referred to. 
The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975 does not provide for direct Commonwealth Government action to secure compliance with its provisions. It creates a right in the hands of any Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander in Queensland to protect himself against discrimination. The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service is able to, and does, assist individuals who wish to recover wages that should have been paid to them under the provisions of this law. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) I am aware of the article, and of the considerable demands on the resources of the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service (Queensland) Limited in the provision of an adequate service to the Cape York Peninsula and Torres Strait Island areas. 
The situation has improved somewhat since December 1976. In particular: two solicitors are now employed in the Cairns' office of the Service; an office of the Service has been opened on Thursday Island and a field officer is based at that location; and the number of people appearing before Aboriginal community courts is diminishing, because prosecutions are now usually being made before Magistrates' Courts. The Service advises that this situation directly results from a magistrate's judgment in 1977 which determined that members of the Police Force were not empowered to enforce Aboriginal community council by-laws. 
The Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service (Qld) has been allocated $880,000 in the current financial year. Each of the Aboriginal Legal Services is responsible for determining priorities for the use of its resources. They have been urged in particular to give attention to ensuring that Aboriginals, especially juveniles, obtain appropriate legal representation in criminal matters; to meet the needs of rural and remote area Aboriginals; to improving Aboriginal /Police relations; and to the possibility of using the services and resources of other agencies, where these are appropriate and accessible including those of Aboriginal and community welfare organisations, the Australian Legal Aid Office, the Law Society and the Public Solicitor. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Neither the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration nor the Committee of Inquiry into the Role of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee recommended that targets be set for percentages of Aboriginal public servants at various levels in my Department or other Departments. 
Detailed statistics are not available in the form requested. The annual Statistical Bulletin entitled 'Employment of Aboriginals in the Australian Public Service', issued by the Public Service Board records the percentage of Aboriginals in departments according to category of employment, State, designation group and sex. Copies of the bulletin for 1 October 1 977 are available from the Parliamentary Library. 
No. 
No specific targets were set. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) The honourable member is referred to my public statement of 16 January 1978. 
Officers of my Department have been consulting with the Maningrida community both before and since the decision to terminate grants to the Council, and I have received written and oral reports from Departmental officers as well as representations from the Aboriginals at Maningrida. 
The reports referred to in (3) indicate that the situation in Maningrida is developing satisfactorily. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)$300. 
No translation has been undertaken of films on uranium. 
The tapes referred to have, in many cases, been distributed through my Department's normal distribution network. Costs cannot therefore be separately identified. 
My Department normally does not undertake the translation of such tapes and films. 
The use of tapes in Aboriginal languages is a new innovation. Some use was made of them in the conduct of the NAC election in 1977 and further use of such tapes in other areas is under consideration. 
No. The purpose of the tapes was part of a continuing information program maintained by my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of criticisms of the Queensland legislation and its administration of Aboriginal and Island affairs and of the Aboriginal and Islander Commission appointed by the Queensland Government to advise on legislation affecting Aboriginals and Islanders. 
and (3) (a) State and Commonwealth Governments have progressively over many years amended and repealed legislation which was considered to discriminate against Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. 
The Commonwealth Parliament enacted the Racial Discrimination Act in 197S to implement the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. Section 10 of that Act provides, in effect, that all persons regardless of race, colour or national or ethnic origin, have equal rights in law, notwithstanding that a law, or part of a law, of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory might provide to the contrary. The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act, also enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament in 1973, was designed to override specific provisions of Queensland legislation that discriminated against Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. 
In my second reading speech on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act I said that 'I am sure this progressive step will be studied with interest in the States with respect to their land '. 
In response to requests by the Pitjantjatjara Council for the grant of title to the Central Reserves of South Australia, Western Australia and the Northern Territory, a working arty of officials was established last year by agreement with South Australian and Western Australian Ministers to examine and report to Ministers on the possibilities of coordinated legislative action. The South Australian Government subsequently established a separate working party to examine the matter and its report is expected to be available shortly. The joint working party will convene again when that report is published. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been only one ministerial directive to the Commission apart from that of 27 May 1975. This was given by me on 10 February 1978 and instructed that: the Commission inform the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs of its intention to enter into any negotiations for a property before an initial approach is made to a vendor, and, in conjunction with this advice; the Commission provide the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs with a statement outlining the reasons in support of the purchase (including the social and economic objectives), and the financial implications for the Commission and the Department. The statement should also contain information about the Aboriginal corporation involved, in sufficient detail to enable the Minister to satisfy himself as to whether the members are members of a Community of Aboriginals; the Commission be in receipt of the views of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, before taking a decision to purchase a property. 
Defence Establishments: Local Government Rates (Question No. 80S) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Kildurk $829,000; (b) Pippingarra, $138,000; (c) Mount Welcome, $ 1 96,000; (d) Peedamulla, $3 1 6,000. 
Kildurk $62,052; Pippingarra, $48,500; Mount Welcome, $ 157,900; Peedamulla, $203,792. 
3 ) Kildurk- expenses for the financial year ended 30 September 1977 totalled $118,739. Pippingarra-bUdgeted expenditure I977-78-$62,200 including $15,000 capital expenditure. Mount Welcome- budgeted expenditure 1977-78- $82,140 including $6,995 capital expenditure. Peedamulla-budgeted expenditure 1977-78- $90,153 including $6,600 capital expenditure. 
Kildurk-estimated at 9,000 cattle in 1973. Pippingarra 9,200 sheep were shorn in June 1974. Mount Welcomeboundaries as they existed prior to acquisition have changed considerably. A portion of the original Mount Welcome has been resumed and neighbouring Chirritta and Woodbrook Stations have been added to Mount Welcome. Mustering and shearing figures before and after acquisition are therefore not comparable. Peedamulla- estimated at 23,000 sheep in 1 974, when station was purchased. 
Kildurk-estimated at 11,000 cattle. Pippingarra 6,990 sheep. Mount Welcome- 16,667 sheep, including an estimated 1,500 stragglers- 700 cattle (estimated). Peedamulla- 15,547 sheep, including an estimated 2,000 stragglers- 600 estimated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes,  Mr Channell  negotiated for the purchase of Glenore Station on behalf of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. 
No. 
The Commission is able to buy through agents when this is appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The State Government maintains the Aitkenvale hostel in Townsville. Questions about its operation might be directed to the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs. 
Aboriginal Hostels Ltd operates a hostel in Townsville. Any organisation may submit proposals for hostels. My Department has made a grant to the Townsville Aboriginal and Islanders Community Health Service to purchase premises for an alcoholic rehabilitation centre. A proposal for a night-shelter is being considered for grant support in the next financial year. 
I understand that the State Government has mobile dental clinics regularly visiting outlying centres to treat school children. 
Commonwealth Property: Payments in lieu of Municipal Rates (Question No. 860) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The tabling of the first report of the Queensland Treaties Commission in December 1976 was not brought to my attention. Matters relating to ILO Conventions are primarily the responsibility of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. 
No. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1 am informed that field officers of the four Aboriginal Legal Services in New South Wales now funded by my Department do seek to visit prisons if requested by Aboriginal inmates. 1 understand that the field officers are generally admitted to the prisons, but have been denied access at certain times without explanation. 
I have written to the Honourable W. M. Haigh, M.L.A., the New South Wales Minister for Corrective Services, seeking advice on any action taken to implement the recommendations of the Royal Commission into New South Wales prisons which relate to Aboriginals. I will make any additional information available in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. I am informed that when the dwellings were destroyed arrangements were made to provide interim accommodation and to erect new permanent dwellings. 
No. 
The Queensland Government is responsible for the land. Lease terms and rental charges were discussed between the Mareeba Shire Council and officers of my Department. 
Costs of constructing the houses were met by grants from my Department. My Department has provided grants to the Mooraridgi Housing Co-operative Society for a homemaker service since October 1976 and has supported the Society since its establishment. Regular liaison has been maintained between officers of my Department, the Mooraridgi Housing Co-operative Society and the Mareeba Shire Council. 
and (5) Legal questions relating to land tenure caused delay in fulfilling the conditions of the grant as originally approved in December 1973. Requests from the Society and from the residents of the reserve where the houses are situated are being considered and decisions will be announced as and when appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is in constant consultation with the Oombulgurri community in relation to the provision of funds for the support of the community and in relation to other matters. 
As the consultations are numerous and often detailed, it is not practicable to supply the detailed information which the honourable member requests. However, if the honourable member seeks information in relation to any specific matters, I will attempt to obtain the information for him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Fifty-six. 
$11,908.97. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I refer the honourable member to part (2) of my answer to question no. 684. 
For the information of honourable members I table a statement by the Public Service Board regarding action taken in relation to the report of Messrs R. J. Perriman and G. P. Temme into the case of  Mr W.  F. Toomer.  Mr Toomer  has been, since January of this year, employed as a quarantine officer at Tullamarine Airport in Melbourne. It is to be hoped that the move to Melbourne will signal a turning point in  Mr Toomer  's relationship with his Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The new Shires of Aurukun and Mornington include the whole of the two Reserves as they existed before they were revoked by the Queensland Government on 7 April 1978, together with certain areas within the boundaries of those Reserves which had been previously set aside for government and official purposes. Bentinck Island is included in the Mornington Shire, but Sweers Island was not part of the Reserve area revoked on 7 April and remains an Aboriginal Reserve. 
The legislation will not inhibit the operation of Aboriginal projects and, under Section 32 of the Act, the Shire Councils are empowered, subject to approval by the Governor in Council, to acquire or hold land. 
Any vacancies occurring on the Councils before the elections to take place in March 1 979 will be filled in accordance with Section5 of the Act and any subsequent vacancies will be filled in accordance with the provisions of the Queensland Local Government Act. 
I believe the Aboriginal Councils are fully capable of managing their affairs under the Local Government legislation. 
The Co-ordinating and Advisory Committees will have the function of advising and assisting the Councils, not the Queensland Government. 
The Councils and other Aboriginal organisations will be free to seek assistance from whatever sources they choose and the Uniting Church will enjoy the same freedom to provide services it enjoys elsewhere. 
The Act provides that the entry of persons not specified in the Act to the Shire areas is to be regulated by by-laws made by Shire Councils; by-laws made by Shire Councils are subject to approval by the Governor in Council. The Act provides for the. appointment of Shire Clerks to be subject to the approval of the Minister in consultation with the Commonwealth and Queensland Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs. 
See my Press statement of 17 May 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Government was committed to recognise the rights of Aborigines to the lands located within the reserves in the Northern Territory' and gave effect to that commitment by the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. The Government is also committed to 'make lands available, either by grant or through the provision of funds, to tribal Aboriginals living on or near their traditional areas which are not on reserves and to detribalised Aborigines in rural or urban areas', by making regular allocations to the Aboriginal Land Fund. This commitment is also being met. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
This is a matter of policy affecting the responsibilities of State Governments as well as the Commonwealth Government. 
-The Attorney General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
This matter was considered very recently by the Government, and, as a result, I shall be putting to the Government a detailed proposal regarding the establishment of a parliamentary committee to review the Family Law Act in the very near future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 1 8 ) The Workshop on Aboriginal Medical Services held in Albury in 1 974 was convened by the Commonwealth Department of Health, and was designed to allow those involved to exchange experiences gained in the operation of Aboriginal Medical Services, to discuss the provision of similar services in other communities, and to suggest training programs. A total of 22 recommendations was made by the Workshop, many of them matters which fall within the responsibilities of the Minister of Health. The recommendations have, however, been taken into account in the planning of the programs of my Department and direct action has been taken on a number of them. 
Reporting on action taken on individual recommendations, several of which are separately referred to in this question, would entail an unjustifiable amount of the time of officers of my Department and the Department of Health. Similarly, the 1972 Monash seminar made many recommendations which have been taken into account in subsequent Government planning. I remind the honourable member that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs is at present enquiring into Aboriginal health problems and existing health care programs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr Justice  Woodward presented his first report on 19 July 1973 and the two regional Land Councils which he recommended should be convened as soon as possible held their first meetings in the last week of September 1973. These interim bodies have now been formally established under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. 
Yes. 
The recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward in his Second Report were given effect to by the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, which was proclaimed on 26 January 1 977. Complementary legislation was recently introduced into the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
Other measures to give effect to  Mr Justice  Woodward 's recommendations include: the purchase by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission of land for Aboriginals, including several cattle stations; the provision of village areas for communities on pastoral properties; the provision of land in towns for Aboriginal community housing, hostels and camping places; the provision of grants and advice to help Aboriginal groups to make good use of their land. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The working party was set up in late 1975 to examine ways in which traditional aboriginal art forms, including music, painting and dance, can be more effectively protected in the context of Australian and international copyright law. 
The working party comprises representatives of the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Depanment of Home Affairs, The Aboriginal Arts Board of the Australia Council and the Australian Copyright Council. 
I am informed that the preparation of the report of the working pany is well advanced. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government was not directly involved in the action or the appeal to the Privy Council but I authorised the provision of additional grants to the Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Legal Service to meet the costs of the action. 
and (3) Following the Privy Council decision in this matter, it is my intention to seek further discussions with the parties to the Aurukun Associates Agreement and with the Aurukun Community- 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Acts listed below contain provisions that permit the issue of warrants to enter and search premises: 
Apple and Pear Levy Collection Act 1 976 
Apple and Pear Export Charge Collection Act 1 976 
Apple and Pear Stabilization Act 1971 
Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection 
Act 1971 
Bankruptcy Act 1966 
Courts-Martial Appeals Act 1955 
Crimes Act 1914 
Customs Act 1901 
Dairy Industry Assistance Act 1977 
Dairying Industry Equalization Act 1970 
Dairying Industry Levy Collection Act 1 970 
Dairy Industry Stabilization Act 1977 
Dairying Research Levy Collection Act 1 972 
Defence Act 1903 
Dried Fruits Levy Collection Act 197 1 
Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Act 1971 
Dried Vine Fruits Stabilization Act 1971 
Health Insurance Amendment Act 1977 
Historic Shipwrecks Act 1 976 
Honey Export Charge Collection Act 1 973 
Insurance Amendment Act 1977 
Meat Export Charge Collection Act 1 973 
Migration Act 1958 
National Health Amendment Act 1976 
Navigation Act 1912 
Oilseeds Levy Collection and Research Act 1 977 
Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Act 1971 
Public Accounts Committee Act 1951 
Public Works Committee Act 1 969 
Reserve Bank Act 1959 
Royal Commissions Act 1 902 
Stevedoring Industry Levy Collection Act 1 977 
Trading with the Enemy Act 1939 
Whaling Act 1960 
Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1974 
Wireless Telegraphy Act 1905 
Wool (Deficiency Payments) Act 1971. 
The Ordinances of the Northern Territory are no longer within my responsibility but, as the honourable member will be aware from a previous answer  (Hansard  for 2 May 1978, pages 1663-4 (those Ordinances were recently examined and I am therefore able to inform him that the Ordinances containing such provisions are as follows: 
Child Welfare Ordinance 1958 
Dangerous Drugs Ordinance 1977 
Firearms Ordinance 1956 
Lottery and Gaming Ordinance 1 940 
Police and Police Offences Ordinance 1 923. 
Examination of the statutory rules, the ordinances and regulations of the other Territories (which have not yet been computerised) would be a substantial task requiring the diversion of staff from more urgent work. This has therefore not been undertaken for the purposes of this question. The legislation is, however, being computerised and, when completed, retrieval of the relevant information from the computer will be a relatively simple task. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Submissions on this matter have been received by my Department from the Victorian Council for Handicapped Readers and I have recently had discussions with the  President  of the Council. In the course of those discussions I indicated that I would give sympathetic consideration to the Council's submissions in the context of my consideration of the proposals of the Franki Committee. 
Few foreign jurisdictions have legislation dealing specifically with the problem of the handicapped. The United States Copyright Act provides that it is not an infringement to perform a literary work under certain circumstances for the benefit of handicapped persons unable to read or hear. In Sweden legislation provides that the reproduction of Braille Copies of literary or musical works will not infringe copyright. Norway and Denmark also have legislation providing specific exceptions in favour of the handicapped. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The Queensland Minister for Lands did not approve the transfer of the Archer River and Glenore pastoral leases to the Commission. 
In a letter in July 1977 to the  Chairman  of the Commission I commented that the matter of Archer River illustrated the value of discussing prospective purchases with the Queensland Department of Lands in order to obtain details of relevant land use plans and asked the  Chairman  to ensure that, as a general rule, possible purchases in Queensland are discussed with the Lands Department before final decisions to purchase are made. 
I am not aware that any directions of mine have resulted in planned land purchases lapsing or being deferred. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters referred to come within the responsibility of the Queensland Government. Questions on these matters should therefore be directed to the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the Government has taken all necessary steps to ensure that all Australian citizens (including Aboriginals), working in employment to which Commonwealth industrial legislation applies, are employed at wage rates and under conditions which are prescribed in the relevant awards. Arbitration Inspectors monitor the observance of these awards and determinations and investigate complaints lodged by parties to them. In other areas which are not so covered, the Government has used its influence to ensure that Aboriginals, in particular those employed on projects funded by the Commonwealth, are paid and employed under conditions appropriate to the work performed. 
and (3) Information in the form sought is not readily available. To obtain this information would require considerable effort and man hours which I am not prepared to authorise. In any event some of the information sought is and would be unknown to the Government. 
I have been advised that the question cannot be answered in terms of categories of employment since the situation varies in different awards. Some Federal and State awards prescribe preference in engagement for members of unions which are parties to these awards; some provide that if a non-union member is engaged he shall become a member of the union within a prescribed period; and many have no preference provisions of any kind, so that, in some employing establishments and industries, certain employment categories may be governed by preference provisions while the same categories in other establishments or industries are not so covered. 
Many Aboriginal organisations and other organisations working with Aboriginals, give preference in employment to suitably qualified Aboriginals. 
and (6) My Department provides finance to Aboriginal legal services in all States and the Northern Territory. A major function of these services is to ensure that Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders are fully informed of their legal rights. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commissioner for Community Relations has advised that, in the course of an inquiry under the  Racial Discrimination Act  1975 in relation to an action of the Queensland Government, he sought assistance from several persons including the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. 
He wrote to the  Chairman  of the Commission on 29 September 1977 and discussed the matter with him on 28 October 1977. 
The Commissioner's inquiry into this matter is still proceeding. 
Discussions with Queensland Premier (Question No. 989) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Public Service Board has advised that the number of Second Division positions at November 1 975 and at April 1 978 is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department does not operate any staff canteens. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In December 1973 the then Commonwealth Government made the first grants to the States to 'supplement existing legal aid schemes'. 
$2m. 
, (4), (5) and (6) In June 1976 the Commonwealth Government proposed to the States a co-operative exercise in the provision of legal aid through State commissions that would incorporate the Australian Legal Aid Office and State and Law Society schemes and would be funded by the Commonwealth to provide legal aid in the 'Federal' area. The continuation of separate grants to the States would have been inconsistent with the new proposals. This was made plain in discussions with State Attorneys-General and the Executive Committee of the Law Council of Australia and also in public statements that my predecessor and I have made in the Parliament and elsewhere. 
The level of activity and staffing in the Australian Legal Aid Office has been maintained and will continue to be maintained until Australian Legal Aid Offices are absorbed into State Commissions. 
Negotiations with the States are well advanced. The Western Australian Legal Aid Commission commenced operations on 17 April 1978. The Director of the South Australian Commission was appointed on 24 May 1978 and the members of the South Australian Commission are expected to be appointed within a few weeks. In Queensland a Bill to establish a Commission passed all stages on 24 May 1 978. Victoria expects to introduce legislation early in the next Parliamentary Session. In Tasmania, a Committee of Inquiry into new legal aid arrangements has completed taking evidence and is preparing its report. Only preliminary discussions have been held with New South Wales. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
There is no Commonwealth legislation specifically directed at the control of lie detectors in Australia and, to the best of his knowledge, there is no such legislation in the States. 
Yes. The Commonwealth's Law Reform Commission is presently investigating privacy generally and the attention of the Commission has been drawn specifically to the use of lie detectors. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Queensland Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act does not allow State-controlled officials and bodies to suspend all State services to Aurukun and Mornington Island communities. Under the Act the Aurukun and Mornington Shire Councils will be subject to essentially the same controls as other Shire Councils in Queensland in relation to Government powers to intervene in their administration or to dissolve them and replace them with administrators. The Act, however, includes special provision for consultation on any proposal to dissolve the Councils. In addition, the Act establishes co-ordinating and advisory committees whose functions include advice to the Shire Councils with respect to by-laws proposed by the Shire Councils and advice to the Councils generally on matters relevant to the interests and residents of the Shire. 
No. 
Land for Aboriginals is generally purchased by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. All purchases would be by agreement and would not include mineral rights as the vendors would not have these rights. Other acquisitions by the Commonwealth, effected under the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955, and when involving compulsory processes, may or may not include mineral rights as necessity determines. 
In the case of Shoalwater Bay training reserve, the mineral rights were acquired and pursuant to Section 5 1 of the Lands Acquisitions Act 1955, rights were subsequently granted back by the Commonwealth to those private holders of land which necessitated pre-acquisition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Aboriginal Loans Commission, Aboriginal Land Fund Commission, Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, Aboriginal Hostels Ltd, Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. 
(a)- 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See my press statements of 17 May 1978 and 30 May 1978. 1 will be watching very closely the implementation of the new legislation and will be taking up with the Queensland Government any problems immediately they arise. I have authorised the payment of a grant to the Uniting Church for administrative expenses incurred at Aurukun and Mornington Island since I April, subject to reimbursement equivalent to any costs met by the Queensland Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No arrangements are made in my Department or in statutory authorities under my control for recycling of waste materials. 
Recycling is not considered to be economically viable at present but the question will be kept under review. 
On 9 May 1978 the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  asked me, as the Minister representing the Attorney-General in the House, the following question without notice: 
I direct my question to the Minister who represents the Attorney-General in this House. The Minister will be aware of recent reports of the formation of groups within Australia, particularly New South Wales, dedicated to the overthrow of foreign governments and the infiltration of political organisations to subvert those organisations to their cause. Have any investigations pursuant to sections 7 to 9 inclusive of the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Act been instigated to ascertain the facts? If so, what are the results? If not, will the Minister seek a firm undertaking that the Attorney-General will investigate these matters and advise the Parliament of his findings at an early date? 
The Attorney-General has now supplied me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I presume that what the honourable member is referring to in his question is a report in the  Sydney Morning J I era Id  du 1 May 1 978 about statements alleged to have been made at a meeting in Sydney on 30 April 1978 of members of a Vietnamese Migrant Group. Before the honourable member asked his question, the Commonwealth Police had been requested to investigate whether any offence was committed against the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Act 1978. A report on the investigation has not yet been received. 
I recall the honourable gentleman's question and the answer I gave at that time. The Government's position with regard to that matter is the same now as it was then. We have a firm commitment to see that these communities can become self-managing communities under the local government legislation. Over recent weeks I have maintained continuous contact with my counterpart in this regard,  Mr Hinze,  the Minister for Local Government, to iron out difficulties that had arisen and to see that the legislation has an opportunity to work. 
As to the specific instance referred to by the honourable gentleman arising out of the visit of the Queensland Premier to Aurukun last week, I am assured that my officer,  Mr Kaufman,  was not forcibly ejected. I cannot speak for the other gentleman,  Mr Purcell.  The position is that the communities, through their shire councils, are in a position to employ whomever they wish to advise them and work for them in pursuance of their self-management functions under that local government legislation. 
The public could be excused for wondering what on earth it is that the Opposition is trying to do in this debate and what point it is trying to make. It has harped upon the matter of a suggested cover-up when in fact we have had a complete royal commission; a most exhaustive inquiry by an honourable and reputable judge. He heard all the evidence that was available to him or could be sought by him. In listening to Opposition members one could pick out perhaps only one or two matters which they dwelt upon. If, as was said by one honourable member opposite,  Senator Withers'  involvement in the change of name of the electorate of McPherson became known only by the action of  Mr Pearson  in revealing it to the Solicitor-General then all the facts as presented to Parliament and which are Government made sure that the terms of reference of the Royal Commission which it had decided to hold were wide enough to encompass those facts revealed by  Mr Pearson  and confirmed by  Senator Withers.  If, as was said by the Opposition, there was political advantage in the change of name then, indeed, that is what the Royal Commissioner found. He found that there was political advantage. It was from that finding of the Royal Commissioner that flowed the finding of impropriety by  Senator Withers. 
I should like to recapitulate some of the history of this matter and when I have done so it will show the public that there cannot be any substance whatsoever in the allegation of a cover-up. On 18 January at the request of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron),  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  in company with the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and  Senator Withers,  discussed the allegations of the honourable member for Fadden. Having heard those allegations, the Prime Minister was determined to expose all the facts known to him to the Solicitor-General and to the Attorney-General for their report. That report was in two parts. There was a report dated 9 February and, after further discussion of other matters with the honourable member for Fadden, there was another short report dated 1 5 February. In their joint report the SolicitorGeneral and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  were firm in their conclusion that, on the basis of the accusations made by the honourable member for Fadden against the Minister for Finance and on the basis of the known facts, there was no impropriety on the part of the Minister for Finance. The report of the SolicitorGeneral and the Attorney-General was incorporated in  Hansard  on 10 April at the request of the honourable member for Port Adelaide so no doubt he has had an opportunity to read it and understand it, aware of the fundamental point that the accusations were being made against the Minister for Finance. 
There was then a hiatus and the matter did not arise again until 7 April when the honourable member for Fadden made a statement in this House. The joint report of the Solicitor-General and the Attorney-General was tabled that day. In other words, there was immediate disclosure by the Government of what had happened from the time when these allegations against the Minister for Finance first surfaced. On 1 1 April  Mr Pearson,  upon reading in  Hansard  the report of the Solicitor-General and the Attorney-General, referred his involvement to the SolicitorGeneral. One can understand the anxiety of  Mr Pearson  in making it known. This was the first time that the matter had come to the knowledge of the Attorney-General who promptly reported it to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister immediately reported it to his senior Ministers because, as the Prime Minister said in his statement, both he and the Attorney-General were concerned about the relevance of that fact to the accusations against the Minister for Finance. 
The House will recall that the Prime Minister immediately went to Japan and was there for the week. While he was there he indicated to the Acting Prime Minister that there should be a report for him when he returned. The Prime Minister returned either on late Saturday afternoon or early Sunday, 23 April and that evening called his senior Ministers together to receive the advice of the law officers of the Crown, the SolicitorGeneral and the Attorney-General. That advice was given in a joint letter by the two law officers and I think it would be of advantage to the House if I read that letter. It reads: 
Prime Minister, 
Electoral Redistribution of Queensland 
We refer to your request for an interim report herein. 
We have considered the material which appears in Hansard and certain further matter sent to us by the Honourable the Minister for Finance. 
We have written to and received a letter from the Member for Fadden who has neither yet made available to us the Statutory Declaration incorporated into Hansard nor any further declarations. 
We have also been recently informed of the existence of further evidence which bears upon our previous report to you. 
I emphasise the last paragraph: 
It is our view that further investigation is required. The investigation would need to establish the correctness of conflicting allegations and is therefore of a nature we are unable to undertake. Whilst it is our view that the form any investigation should assume is a matter for the Government to determine, we consider that a judicial inquiry would be preferable. 
Acting promptly on that report, the Ministers and the Prime Minister decided that a royal commission was the only way to conduct a judical inquiry. Thereupon a royal commission was set up and, upon the advice of the law officers, its terms of reference were deliberately drawn so as to be wide enough to ensure that the evidence of  Senator Withers  and  Mr Pearson  would be available to the royal commission. That is a point to be emphasised. It is a point not understood by the Opposition but I am quite sure that it is a point which the public well understands. 
As we know, both  Mr Pearson  and  Senator Withers  gave evidence,  Mr Pearson  on 1 5 May and  Senator Withers  on 22 May. Prior to that there had been an extension of the terms of reference to cover further allegations regarding statements alleged to have been made by the Minister for Finance about uranium. I remind the House that on 1 1 May the Attorney-General wrote to the royal commissioner saying that the Government was willing to extend the terms of reference if the royal commissioner thought at any time that that would be appropriate by reason of any evidence or material which came before him. That is another example of how at all points along this road of events the Government was concerned to see that every opportunity was open to the royal commissioner to have before him all material and evidence bearing upon allegations which, at that time, had been made against the Minister for Finance only. As the Prime Minister's statement shows, on 26 May  Senator Withers  answered a question in the Senate concerning a statement he had made on 4 November 1977. On 28 May there was a meeting of Ministers to consider the evidence which had been given by  Mr Pearson  and  Senator Withers  and  Senator Withers'  statement in the Senate. Resulting from that meeting was a decision to widen further the terms of reference so as to encompass all allegations of illegality or impropriety against any person, whether that person was a Minister of the Crown, a public servant or any other person who might be implicated, so that all allegations could be fully heard and determined. That, I emphasise, is not the action of a government seeking to cover up but the action of a government seeking to expose to the rigour of a royal commission all the known evidence and material, that is, everything known to the Government. I think that needs no repetition. The facts speak for themselves. 
If there is one thing that the Opposition needs to remember it is that the currency of the coin of accusation by it is quickly debased by the frequency with which it makes those accusations on baseless grounds. The Opposition may go on day after day, week after week, making its accusations and repeating the same things but always the facts, as disclosed to this Parliament, will be available to show that the accusations are baseless. If that is what the Opposition wishes to do it should not hesitate to do it because the Government can always answer the accusations emphatically, categorically and absolutely. 
I think we have already had an indication today, if I heard the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  correctly, of the lengths to which the Opposition is prepared to go in making accusations against not only the Government but anybody. I was disturbed to hear, and I think I heard it correctly, the Leader of the Opposition make a veiled attack on the credibility and the integrity of the royal commissioner, a distinguished Queen's Counsel at the Sydney Bar and a distinguished judge, when he suggested that  His  Honour  Mr Justice  McGregor could be bought. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
I refer the honourable member to Question upon Notice No. 1533 asked by him and answered in the House of Representatives  Hansard  for 8 November 1977. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are no staff canteens operated by the AttorneyGeneral's Department, nor are there any arrangements made by the Attorney-General's Department for any staff canteen to be operated by private enterprise. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) I am informed that the name Alexander Emil Vrisakis is not on the Roll of Barristers and Solicitors of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. I understand that he is enrolled as a solicitor in New South Wales. 
I am aware of a Press report in the Australian Financial Review of 20 March 1978 of statements, of the kind referred to, attributed to  Mr Justice  Holland in the Supreme Court of New South Wales on 17 March 1978. (3)I have no knowledge of this matter other than a reference to it in the Press report mentioned in ( 2 ), above. 
I am not aware whether or not  Mr Vrisakis  was a prominent opponent of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1 975.I am not concerned to discover also whether or not he was. 
I am not responsible for conduct of New South Wales solicitors. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The estimated costs for Public Service Act employees are as follows: 
I am able to inform the honourable member that shortly before I came into the chamber I was advised that a judge of the Queensland Supreme Court this morning granted an interim injunction to each of the Aurukun and Mornington Island councils restraining the Administrator of Queensland from proceeding with a dissolution of the two councils and the appointment of an administrator. 
-With regard to the Queensland distribution, that material was before the Royal Commissioner. I will refer to the Minister the honourable member's request to table other such analyses and report to the honourable member. 
I thank the honourable member for his question because if his information is correct, it is most disturbing to find that an honourable member of this House should be using or allowing to be used parliamentary postage paid envelopes for a purpose not connected with his own parliamentary business. I understand that the address provided by  Mr Healy  is 200 Lygon Street, Melbourne. I do not think any honourable member on our side of the House has his parliamentary office at that address. I believe that is the address of the electorate office of the honourable member for Melbourne. Judging the matter seriously, as I do, I will report it to  Senator Durack,  the Minister for Administrative Services, to see what inquiries are necessary to be undertaken. 
Pursuant to section 37 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 I present a supplementary report of the Law Reform Commission entitled 'Complaints Against Police'. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The amounts spent by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for advertising and services on specific programs were: 
11.1 1.75 to 13.12.75- $7,465 
14.12.75 to 30.6.76-$20,578 
1.7.78 to 30.6.77-$22,229 
1.7.77 to 28.2.78-833,587 
The cost of individual campaigns were: 
Staff recruitment- Department of Aboriginal Affairs-$1 1,126 
Staff recruitment-Nursing stadd (film)-$44,000 
Election- National Aboriginal Conference- $25,428 
Aboriginal Land Commissioner N.T.- Land Claims Hearings-$3,306 
3 ) Funds were provided as under for: 
Staff recruitment (departmental) 120.2.04 (1975-76); 120.2.04 (1976-77) Advertising 
Staff recruitment (nursing) Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account (1975-76); 120.4.02 (1976-77) Grants-in-Aid-Health 
Election (N.A.C.) 120.3.05 (1977-78) National Aboriginal Conference- Election expenses 
Land Claim Hearings 813.0.01 (1975-76) Interim Northern Territory Land Commission- Operating expenses 120.3.11 (1976-77) Interim Northern Territory Land Commission- Operating expenses 120.3.10 (1977-78) Aboriginal Land CommissionerOperating expenses. 
and (5) Agencies used and the amount paid to each in respect of individual campaigns were 
Gordon and Gotch $5,846 Staff Recruitment (Departmental) 
Berrie Currie $4,444 Staff Recruitment (Departmental); $15 Election (N.A.C.); $2,582 Land Claim Hearings 
Insight Advertising $439 Staff Recruitment (Departmental); $2,065 Election (N.A.C.); $724 Land Claim Hearings 
Weston Advertising Film Australia $2,599 Election (N.A.C.); $44,000 Staff Recruitment (Health) 
Advertising was arranged through the Australian Government Advertising Service and the promotional film was made by Film Australia. 
The estimated cost of advertising and promotion in 1977-78 is $185,428. 
Television Advertising Directed at Children  (Question No. 190) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) See my answer to question No. 833. 
Aboriginals of the Forrest River reserve have been involved in consultations with the Aboriginal Lands Trust of Western Australia. 
The establishment of Land Councils is a matter unrelated to foreign investment policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) None. There is a standing House of Representatives Committee on Aboriginal Affairs and Senate committees from time to time deal with matters concerning Aboriginal affairs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. It is normal practice for correspondence between Commonwealth and State Ministers to be treated as confidential. 
The matter is primarily one for the State Government to take up with the W.A. Aboriginal Lands Trust. I understand that the Premier has been discussing the matter with the Trust and that further discussions between the two parties are envisaged. At the request of the Trust I have met with representatives of the Trust at which they briefed me on their discussions with the State Government. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) No metal or glass waste is generated by the AttorneyGeneral 's Department or the Statutory Authorities under the Attorney-General's control. See the answer provided by my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services to parliamentary question No. 1437 in respect of waste paper. 
See(l). 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At the 1971 Census, the Australian Bureau of Statistics adopted the term ' major urban ' in place of metropolitan '.In New South Wales the term major urban covers the urban population of Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong. In Victoria it covers the urban population of Melbourne and 
Geelong, and in other States the capital city urban population; it also covers the urban population of Canberra. (a)- 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
I can inform the honourable gentleman that discussions have been continuing with the Queensland Government for some time. Unfortunately, with due respect to my colleague the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, at present there is some difficulty in getting through to Brisbane. Notwithstanding that, I have been in touch with representatives of the Uniting Church in Australia and have been endeavouring to maintain contact through officers with Aurukun and Mornington Island so that those communities might know the Commonwealth's position. Through my officers - 
I welcome the opportunity to answer the statements made by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  the shadow minister for Aboriginal Affairs, in the debate on this matter of public importance. Right at the outset I would like to refer to the transcript of an interview that I gave to the Press on the night of 1 1 April at the conclusion of the discussions between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments which led to the agreement of that date to have the Queensland Parliament pass special local government legislation for the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities. With respect to the question of acquisition, I said: 
Now there will be consultation on both the legislation and the terms of the special lease and that the Commonwealth position is quite clear, that if those terms of legislation and lease are not acceptable then the Commonwealth will exercise its constitutional powers of acquisition. 
It will be seen immediately that the statement related to the adequacy of the legislation and the acceptability of the 50-year lease which it had been agreed would be given to each of those communities in place of the reserves which had been abolished. That passage, of course, is very loosely used by the Opposition to assert that the Commonwealth has said that it would acquire the land virtually at the drop of a hat. That is simply not correct. It is true that we have always reserved to the Commonwealth the possibility of acquisition, as I said the other night, in the nature of the ultimate sanction if the scheme of legislation to bring about self-management should so fail that it becomes necessary for the Commonwealth to act. The Commonwealth made that agreement with Queensland on 1 1 April in good faith and it will not repudiate it without good cause. 
Since that time I and my counterpart  Mr Russell  Hinze, and officers of our respective departments, have put in a tremendous amount of work. We have not been going to the Press every day and reporting what has been done. However, I can tell the House that both of us have been in constant contact and our officers have been working assiduously to set in train this legislation so that it can properly and effectively be a vehicle for self-management for these two communities. We have had our difficulties- of that there is no doubt. I will not go into a long catalogue of all the events that have taken place, of all the work that has been done and of the frustrations that have been experienced since 1 1 April. It may be that at another time and on another occasion I will need to do that. 
There were perhaps three critical areas of difficulty in getting the legislation off the ground. The first was the appointment of a shire clerk; the second was funding the shire councils which were established by virtue of the legislation; and the third was establishing and putting into operation the co-ordinating and advisory committees established by that legislation. Of course, it is easy for the Opposition to call for the acquisition of the land by the Commonwealth. It lives in the luxury of opposition because it does not bear the responsibility of government. With that responsibility on my shoulders I am not going to thrust the communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island into a state of political warfare between two governments within the federal system of Australia. Like the battlefields portrayed in Gone with the Wind', the injured, the maimed and the hurt, not in a physical sense but in a psychological sense, will be the Aboriginal people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
I consider that I have a responsibility to bend every effort that I have at my disposal personally and through my officers to see that this legislation does work, and does work for the benefit of the people of those two communities. I know these people- I know them well. I have had the privilege of going into their communities and I have enjoyed seeing some of their cultural and social life. I know that these people deserve better than either government has been able to give them up to now. I simply do not believe some of the things that have been said about those people because I know them and I know the communities. For example it is simply not true that there is a reign of terror at either Aurukun or Mornington Island. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Corio must realise that he is not entided to interject at ailcertainly not from a place which has not been properly allocated to him. 
-Almost since the day of the agreement of 11 April I have had officers stationed at both Aurukun and Mornington Island. I have received regular reports from them so I know what has been happening there. I have  even gone to the lengths of having messages flown in, such are the difficulties of communication with Mornington Island in particular but also with Aurukun because the lines of communication are public rather than private. What these people need above all is a period in which they can regain their equilibrium. Both governments at this moment have a heavy responsibility to see that those people can regain that status and the kind of composure that they have had in the past. I have had sufficient confidence in those people, for example, to appoint  Mr Larry  Lanley, the  Chairman  of the Mornington Shire Council, a member of the Council for Aboriginal Development, which is a national body to advise the National Government. I know Donald Peinkinna, the  Chairman  of the Aurukun Council. I know how he has led his people with great fortitude during a time of considerable pain and sickness for him. I know the stresses under which these people are living at the moment. As we are working to try to get this legislation going I wonder at times just what the two governments are fighting over, what we are fighting for. I know what the people want. They have the simple, human aspiration to lead their own lives and to manage their own affairs. People who live in shires, cities or municipalities know that good local government will allow a community to do just that. 
I must speak here also of the role of the church and of people like Reverend Rollie Busch, the Moderator of the Uniting- Church in Queensland, the Reverend Davis McCaughey, the Moderator of the Uniting Church in Australia and  Mr Bill  McMillan, the solicitor to both communities. I know how they have bent their efforts constantly in personal discussion with  Mr Hinze,  with other Queensland Ministers and with the communities to make this legislation work. I know that there have been other so-called advisers at work such as  Mr Frank  Purcell,  Mr Michael  Anderson who happens to work out of the office of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and  Mr Mick  Millar who represents himself as being a representative of the people. But I make this statement unequivocally and clearly: The people who are representing and working effectively for the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island are those people of the Church whom I have named. There are others whom I have not named. 
The Commonwealth has stood firm in its determination to see that this legislation is given a real chance and a real opportunity to work. It is a good vehicle for achieving self-management. Regrettably, at every step, just when we seem to  have reached the point where the administrative difficulties have been overcome, something happens to frustrate it. I mention but one example at this point, namely, the notices to quit that were issued at Aurukun. Right at the heart of the problem was funding and departmental responsibility. The Commonwealth said that funding should be the responsibility of the Department of Local Government and the Minister for Local Government because it was local government legislation within the umbrella of the general local government legislation applying in Queensland. We said that that funding should be made direct from the Department to the shire councils so that they could be truly autonomous, operating under their legislation, applying their funds in the way they saw fit and employing the people whom they saw as necessary to do the work in these communities. When on 7 August the Queensland Cabinet made critical decisions to the effect that local government functions in the two communities should be funded through the Department of Local Government, that health functions should be funded and be the responsibility of the Department of Health, that education likewise should be the responsibility of the Department of Education and that welfare should be the responsibility of the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, it appeared that at last these difficulties had been overcome. It appeared that at last what the coordinating and advisory committee had recommended to  Mr Hinze  had come to pass. 
Unfortunately, following the visit of the Queensland Premier,  Mr Hinze  and  Mr Porter  to both communities last Friday, we now are confronted with a situation in which the Queensland Government has decided to dissolve both councils and to appoint an administrator. Under section 16 of the legislation, I in my capacity as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs must be consulted before the councils can be dissolved and an administrator appointed. Having had some discussions with  Mr Hinze  over last weekend, following the visit of the Premier to both those places, I sent this telex on 15 August. I will read part of it into  Hansard  and seek leave to have the balance incorporated in  Hansard.  The telex was sent at 11 o'clock on Tuesday, 15 August 1978 and reads: 
I refer to our recent telephone conversations about the situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island following your visit there with the Premier and  Mr Porter  last Friday. 
As I have indicated, I believe that it is absolutely vital that our two Governments should make a further effort to ensure that the local government arrangements are given a chance to work at both communities. 1 believe that action to dissolve the councils and appoint an administrator would be precipitate and that it should still be possible to persuade the councils that self-management is possible under the local government arrangements if early  action is taken to implement  the decisions your Government took last Monday about payments to the councils. 
Dissolving the councils now would undermine all our efforts to implement the legislation, and create major political problems for both Governments. I believe it would further compound the difficulties of resolving the situation at the two communities satisfactorily. 
Might I remind you of the provision of section 16 of the Local Government (Aboriginal Lands ) Act requiring consultation with me before the councils can be dissolved? I do not regard your intimation by telephone as fulfilling the statutory requirement for consultation, but would expect a formal communication in writing. 
The councils have asked that initial grants should be paid without further delay and 1 think that if this is done and if the co-ordinating and advisory committee visits the communities to help frame budgets and establish arrangements for employing staff, a sound basis for persuading the councils to rescind their decisions not to co-operate would have been established. 
I seek leave to have the balance of the telex incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The telex read as follows- 

The Commonwealth Government reviewed the situation yesterday, as I told you, and has suggested that it would be useful to involve officers of the Premier's Department and the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, as well as members of the co-ordinating and advisory committees in working out arrangements with the two councils and communities. It would also be useful to post the acting shire clerk to the communities for the time being. I agree that police should be posted to the communities as soon as possible, in consultation with the councils, which asked you to arrange this. 
I would be glad to have your comments on these proposals. 
That was my position on Tuesday morning. It is the position of the Government today. We believe that by sensible discussion around the table, involving both Governments, the Church and the two communities, good sense can prevail and this legislation can be made to work. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report has been under study within my Department and will be taken into account in the development of programs for the Regions. In addition, the Report has been widely distributed amongst State and Commonwealth Departments and private industry, with a view to inviting comment and using the Report as the basis of co-ordinated action. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present the first report of the Parole Board of the Australian Capital Territory together with the text of a statement by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  relating to the report. 
As the Minister representing the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in this House, I would like to say something concerning this resolution. The House has before it a resolution carried by the Senate that a joint select committee of the Parliament be appointed to review the Family Law Act. The Family Law Act has now been in operation for more than  2l/i  years, having commenced on 5 January 1976. Honourable members will of course be aware that the Act contains the divorce law of Australia and the law governing maintenance, custody and matrimonial property disputes, and that it superseded the Matrimonial Causes Act. 
The Family Law Act was passed after a very lengthy debate in both Houses of Parliament during late 1 974 and the first half of 1 975. Before that, the Bill had been examined by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs as part of its examination of the reference on the then existing divorce law. The previous legislation on the subject- the Matrimonial Causes Act- was the first national law and it consolidated the divorce laws of the States. However, the Family Law Act introduced major changes in the principles governing the laws not only of divorce but also of maintenance, matrimonial property settlements and custody. More importantly, it also established the Family Court of Australia as a specialist court to administer the law, and provided the opportunity for States to establish State family courts. 
After such a long debate on the legislation by this Parliament, it may well be asked: What is the need for such a general review of the Act after such a relatively short period since it commenced operation? It was 10 years after the Matrimonial Causes Act commenced that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs was given the reference on the state of the divorce law. The rough edges of the Family Law Act, it could be said, were ironed out in the two amending Acts passed in 1976. As I mentioned a few moments ago, the Family Law Act marked a conscious change of basic principle in a number of areas of matrimonial law. Even the most convinced supporters of the Act at the time it was before Parliament would acknowledge that the results of at least some of the changes made by the Act could not be predicted with certainty. In fact, there are several instances in which the provisions of the Act have operated rather differently from what was expected. For instance, I think it is fair to say that the Family Law Act aroused wide expectation that the conduct of parties would not be examinable in proceedings under it. While an objective examination of the Act at the time would have disclosed that conduct was not excluded from custody proceedings, it apparently has come as a shock to some parties to custody proceedings that their conduct relevant to their suitability as custodians has been the subject of protracted examination in defended custody proceedings. 
On the other hand, I think it is equally fair to say that sceptics of the Family Law Act were confidently predicting that the provisions for counselling, unless at least given the force of compulsion, would prove largely ineffective in preventing bitter disputes or increased family breakdowns. One of the features of the family courts that few deny is the tremendous help counselling has been in the settling of proceedings which might otherwise have become protracted contested cases. I think that the success of counselling has exceeded the expectations of even the strongest supporters of the Family Law Act. No doubt many other examples will be given to the committee, when it is established, of provisions of the Act that have operated differently from predictions or expectations. 
The fact that provisions of the Family Law Act have not operated as expected might not, in itself, be sufficient reason for submitting the operation of the Act to a parliamentary committee. However, the Act has continued to be the subject of widespread critical attention by interested groups and individuals. The continued criticism of various aspects of the Act has as much as anything persuaded the Attorney-General and the Government that the community will be satisfied with nothing less than a review such as is proposed in this resolution. It is not conceded that all criticism of the Act has merit. It is quite clear from the tenor of some correspondence received regarding the Act that the writers would be dissatisfied with whatever divorce law prevailed. However, there has been sufficient critical comment which appears to spring from genuine grievance to warrant the setting up of the committee. 
Some honourable members may be wondering whether the establishment of the committee is necessary when the Act already provides for a Family Law Council with the stated function of monitoring the operation of the Act. I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the valuable work that has been done by the Council since it was established by the then AttorneyGeneral in November 1976. Interested members will be aware that the first annual report of the Council, which was tabled last year, contains a considerable list of useful recommendations for amendment of the Act. Legislation will be introduced shortly to implement some of the recommendations of a technical nature. 
However, the Council is, and is intended by the Act to be, a small body of professionals working in fields associated with various aspects of the Act and its administration. They would judge the shortcomings of the Act from their observation of its operation in the course of their professional work, and their recommendations are, as one would only expect, concerned with the more technical aspects of the Act. I do not think that such a body can fairly be expected to know the feelings of the community at large about the Act to the same extent as a committee of parliamentary representatives. Also, I see the work of the proposed joint select committee as complementing, rather than competing with, the work of the Council. I would expect that the committee, when established, would find it helpful to consult the Family Law Council, particularly in relation to recommendations it has already made. 
The terms of reference of the proposed committee have been deliberately drawn as widely as possible, so that all aspects of the Act and its administration are intended to be within the charter of the committee. Having listened to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  expressing some criticism of the width of the terms of reference, I simply re-emphasise that they have been deliberately drawn as widely as possible, so that all aspects of the Act and its administration are intended to be within the charter of the committee. The areas singled out for mention are those that have been the subject of comment in correspondence and in the media. 
Let me conclude by paying tribute to the tremendous efforts of the Family Court of Australia and the Family Court of Western Australia since their establishment, in coping with the work of administering the large volume of applications filed under the Act, particularly in its early stages. The latest statistics suggest that the volume of divorce applications under the Act, which dropped from 65,788 in 1976 to 41,698 last year, will drop again slightly this year. I have already mentioned the success of counselling under the Act and this must be attributable, in the case of counselling in the course of proceedings, to the commendable efforts of the Family Court counsellors. I commend equally the tireless efforts of the judges, who have worked hard and effectively and who have won the high respect of members of the profession appearing before them. I feel confident that the committee will not fail to be impressed by the dedication and professionalism shown by the people who make up the Family Court. 
The Family Law Act when before the House was the subject of a non-party debate. This resolution proposes the establishment of a joint select committee that is bipartisan and representative of the Parliament as a whole. Honourable members on this side are free to vote on this motion according to their personal views and I hope that the same attitude will be adopted by the Opposition. I commend the motion to the House. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act has yet to be proclaimed. I sought the advice of the Administrative Review Council on whether any classes of decisions and, if so, what classes of decisions should be excluded from the Act by regulations made under the Act. It may be recalled that both the Kerr Committee- the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee- and the Ellicott Committeethe Committee of Review of Prerogative Writ Procedureshad expressed a view to the effect that there may be some classes of decisions not appropriate for review by the courts. The Administrative Review Council established a subcommittee to consider the matter. I am informed that the sub-committee has, after a very careful examination, made a report to the Council and that I may soon expect to receive the advice of the Council. It is intended that the Act be proclaimed as soon as the Council's advice has been considered, the Government has reached a conclusion on what exclusions, if any, should be made and any necessary regulations have been drafted. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
98. 
518,537.81. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
(a) The cost of maternity leave in the AttorneyGeneral 's Department during 1 976 was $ 1 23,524. 
(b) The cost of maternity leave in the AttorneyGeneral's Department during 1977 was $240,394. 
(c) The cost of maternity leave in the AttorneyGeneral's Department in the period January 1978 to 1 June 1978 was $176,483. 
The total hours of leave in respect to these employees was 161,559. 
The number of employees who resigned or retired within one month of the end of each period was: 1976-14: 1977- 12 and 1978-19. 
Details regarding the sum paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods is not maintained by this Department. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) $63,316, (b) $134,646, (c) $30,113 to 26 May 1978. 
67,754 hours. 
(a)8,(b)5,(c)2. 
(a) $208,290, (b) $ 19,785, (c) Nil. 
Use of Motor Car near Parliament House  (Question No. 1292) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (3) As the questions relate to the internal affairs of the Aboriginal Development Foundation, Darwin, enquiries on these matters should be directed to the Foundation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The Aboriginal Development Foundation Darwin, is an independent Aboriginal organisation and enquiries relating to its internal affairs should be directed to the Foundation. 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs approved a variation to the Foundation's budget to enable the organisation to make the purchase. 
The Department's rules require tenders to be called where purchases exceed $5,000 and recommend that quotations be obtained for acquisitions involving lesser amounts. 

 Mr Valadian was the Executive Officer of the Aboriginal Development Foundation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr Valadian was employed full-time as Regional Manager of Aboriginal Hostels Limited, Darwin, from October 1975 to November 1976. During this period he was also engaged by the Aboriginal Development Foundation on a part-time basis. Aboriginal Hostels Limited has advised that it regards information about the salaries of company employees as confidential. Inquiries about remuneration  Mr Valadian  received from the Foundation in that period should be directed to the Foundation. 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs does not have rules or guidelines concerning dual employment in organisations to which it makes grants. The Department, however, discourages the practice where the efficiency of a full-time employee is affected by a part-time second occupation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See(1) above 
See (1) above 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed that  Mr Purcell  was told by  Mr Porter,  the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs, that he was not needed at a meeting which the Premier and his Ministers and officials had with the members of the Aurukun Council at Aurukun on 1 1 August 1978, and that he was subsequently ordered to leave by the Premier,  Mr Porter  and a police officer.  Mr Purcell  is not, as far as I am aware, a solicitor for the Uniting Church. 
I am informed that  Mr Poner  and the Premier similarly told an officer of my Department to leave the meeting and that he did so. 
I understand that the Queensland Premier told the Aurukun Council members that he wished to talk to them before having the public meeting which the Aurukun Council asked him to attend. Reports to me indicate that, in addition to the  Deputy Chairman  of the Council, Councillor Barry Ngakyunkwokka, and members of the Council, the meeting was attended by  Mr Francis  Yunkaporta and the Queensland Premier,  Mr Poner, Mr Hinze  (the Queensland Minister for local Government),  Mr L.  Harman of the Queensland Department of Local Government, two police officers and two other men. 
Questions about the purpose of the meeting would need to be directed to the Queensland Premier. I understand that it took no decisions. 
I am prepared to answer any specific questions the honourable member may wish to ask about the meeting. 
I have on several occasions assured the Aurukun and Mornington Shire Councils that the Commonwealth Government will ensure that the communities will be able to manage their own affairs within the local government framework agreed upon last April, but I have given no assurances that they will have ownership of freehold land, since the agreement was that a lease would be granted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, to date the Queensland Government has made no grants to either the Council of the Shire of Aurukun or the Council of the Shire of Mornington. 
No. I understand that the Councils and communities have not accepted any funds from the Queensland Depanment of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement. 
It will be essential that funds are provided to the Councils through the Queensland Depanment of Local Government, to give effect to the 1 1 April agreement between the two Governments and to the Queensland Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act and to ensure that the two communities are able to manage their affairs. 
In the interim the Uniting Church, with its own funds and funds provided by the Commonwealth until the Church is reimbursed by Queensland, has supported the municipal functions of the communities. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On 24 July 1 978 in Brisbane. 

 Mr Macpherson and  Mr O'Rourke,  members of the Co-ordinating and Advisory Committee; Messrs Jacobs, Browne and Harman of the Queensland Department of Local Government; and  Mr Young,  Inspector of SchoolsSecondary Education of Aboriginals and Islanders, of the Queensland Department of Education. Since the meeting was held in Brisbane, no representatives of the Aboriginal communities were present. 

 Mr Young provided the Committee with information on the staffing of the Aurukun School and on education services provided there and for the outstation groups in the area. There was no discussion of the need to ensure that existing transport arrangements which allow the Education Department to provide services to the outstations are maintained.  Mr Young  stated that the question of truancy did not arise in relation to the outstation groups. 
1/) 
Pursuant to section 22 of the Public Service Act 1922, 1 present the annual report of the Public Service Board for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
See my answer to a question without notice in the Senate from  Senator Martin  on 6 April 1978  (Hansard,  pages 890-1). There have been no further developments to add to that answer. 
See my answer in the Senate to a question without notice from  Senator Missen  on 10 April 1978  (Hansard,  page 1031). 
Yes. 
The following resolution was carried: 
That this Convention recommends that the following matters should be the subject of references of power by the States to the Commonwealth- 
Illegitimacy- including family inheritance as it affects children who are legitimised by Commonwealth legislation (so as to achieve uniformity in law as between legitimate and illegitimate children). 
Adoption. 
Maintenance (other than in divorce proceedings). ' 
The resolution was passed by majority. The names of those who voted against the resolution are not formally recorded, but the record of debates indicates that the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland, the  Hon.  W. E. Knox, M.L.A., was among those who voted against it.  (Proceedings of the Australian Constitutional Convention: Hobart 1976,  page 68). 
Yes. The following Government members of the Queensland Parliament were delegates to the Convention: 
The  Hon.  J. Bjelke-Petersen, M.L.A. 
The  Hon.  W. E. Knox, M.L.A. 
The  Hon.  W. D. Lickiss, M.L.A. 
The  Hon.  J. W. Greenwood, M.L.A. 
The  Hon.  C. R. Porter, M.L.A. 
MrD. McC. Neal, M.L.A. 
MrR.C.Katter,M.L.A. 

 Mr D. J. Frawley, M.L.A. 
MrW. D.Hewitt, M.L.A. 
MrE.C.Row, M.L.A. 
As to the votes cast by these delegates on the motion referred to in (5 ) above, see the last part of my answer to ( 5 ) above. 
The Family Court of Australia exercises jurisdiction to the extent to which it has been invested with jurisdiction under Federal law. Whether Federal law can invest the Court with jurisdiction over ex-nuptial children in the States depends on whether the Commonwealth acquires the necessary legislative power by Constitutional amendment or reference of power, as to which see my answer in (3) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Section 6(1) (b) of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973, provides that female staff must be granted 'Maternity Leave' for a period of six weeks before the expected date of birth of a child and six weeks after the date of birth. In addition, Section 6 (7) of the Act provides that accrued paid leave credits of any kind up to a maximum of 52 weeks, including Section 6 ( 1 ) ( b) leave, may also be taken. 
The cost of Section 6 ( 1 ) ( b ) and Section 6 ( 7 ) leave taken by staff of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet was: in 1976-$29,295; in 1977-$83,240; and in 1978 (to 30 June)-$29,827. The above leave involved a total of 48,538 hours. 
Employees who resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period numbered: in 1976-4; in 1977-7; and in 1978 (to 30 June)-Nil. 
No records are kept as to whether a birth in respect of which leave is granted is the employee's first, second, third or subsequent child. The leave payments referred to in ( 1 ) and (2) above include the following amounts related to a second occasion on which maternity leave was granted by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to an employee: in 1976-$346; in 1977- S9493; and in 1978 (to 30 June)-$5154. 
The balance of the payments were all in relation to the first occasion maternity leave was granted by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, there being no occasions when the same employee was granted maternity leave for a third time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The eviction notices referred to were delivered on 19 July 1978. 
I understand that the Shire Council was not consulted before the notices were issued. 
The action was brought to my attention the following day. I subsequently discussed the matter with the Queensland Minister for Local Government,  Mr Hinze,  and with representatives of the Uniting Church and brought it to the attention of the Commonwealth Government. On 2 1 July the Co-ordinating and Advisory Committee established under the Queensland Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act met in Brisbane at the instigation of my representative,  Mr D.  J. O 'Rourke, Regional Director of my Department in Queensland, to discuss a number of issues and the Committee agreed that any action on the notices to quit should be stayed until the Aurukun Council had been provided with maps showing what improvements within the Shire were excised for official and departmental purposes. The matter was again discussed at a meeting on 26 July with  Mr Hinze  and officers of his Depanment, my Depanment, the Depanment of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement and  Mr McMillan,  solicitor to the two Councils, and at another meeting of officers on 27 July. On 4 August I sent a message to the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs,  Mr Porter  whose Depanment had issued the notices, informing him that the Commonwealth Government had decided that my Department's officer should remain at Aurukun as long as the Council wished him to do so. 
and (5) Yes. I was approached by and responded to the Press on 21 July 1978. The Aurukun Council and the Uniting Church were informed of the Commonwealth Government 's position. 
I recall receiving a communication of a resolution passed by coastal communities concerning an area two kilometres off shore, and fishing within that area, because of the concern felt by them at recent activity by certain fishing boats in the mouth of the Blyth River and around some of the island Aboriginal communities. I cannot recollect a telex message on 1 1 September. I believe that I would have replied to the communication from those communities. I will check my records and let the honourable member have a copy of any communication that I sent to them. 
I think it would be apparent to the House that it is an absurd proposition to consider that the Government would take steps to destroy the Northern Land Council or any Aboriginal land council created by it under the land rights legislation. If there is one thing that is clear, it is that these land councils enable Aboriginals to act in their own interests not, as in the past, pursuant to what governments considered was benevolently in the best interests of Aboriginals. The very essence of land rights legislation is that it puts Aboriginal land in the hands of Aboriginals and creates bodies such as the land councils so that they can act for Aboriginals and in the interests of Aboriginals. Therefore it is an absurd proposition to think that this Government, which has created those bodies, would take any steps to destroy them. 
In fact the whole history of the negotiations that have been carried on by the Northern Land Council with the Commonwealth with regard to the Ranger uranium deposits is an example of the strength which Aboriginals can obtain through the Northern Land Council and other land councils on behalf of traditional owners. I emphasise that last point because under the statute the land councils are to act in accordance with the wishes of the traditional owners. I am advised by the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council,  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu, that at all times in the negotiations and in seeking the ratification by the Northern Land Council last week of the agreement reached between negotiators, the traditional owners have been kept informed and their wishes are reflected in the agreement reached between the negotiators. 
-The date has not been brought forward to today. 
For the information of honourable members, I present: 
Guidelines relating to access by members of Parliament to public servants and officers of statutory authorities; and Guidelines to apply to appearances by public servants and officers of statutory authorities before Party committees. 
On 9 December 1976 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  tabled draft guidelines on these matters and invited comments from the Opposition and from the Government parties. Those draft guidelines were incorporated in  Hansard.  After extensive consultation and amendment the guidelines have been finalised. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has advised the Prime Minister that, without prejudice to the forthcoming debate on the - 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 21 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in  passing  that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 21 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 2 1 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the number of questions asked by the honourable member, some of which require detailed inquiry, there necessarily must be some time taken to provide answers. I notice in passing that the honourable member when he was a Minister took up to 21 weeks to answer some questions on notice. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I present the report of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner on the Warlpiri and Kartangarurru-Kurintji land claim and seek leave to make a statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
The land claim to which this report refers is the second to be heard by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner in accordance with the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. Honourable members will recall that I presented the Commissioner's first report, which dealt with the Borroloola land claim, on 26 May 1978. The Aboriginal Land Rights Act provides, amongst other things, that Aboriginals may make traditional land claims in respect of areas of unalienated Crown land in the Northern Territory and that the Aboriginal Land Commissioner shall consider the claims and report upon them to me and my colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory. In the case of the Warlpiri land claim the Central Land Council lodged an application on 16 August 1977 on behalf of a substantial number of Aboriginals claiming to have a traditional land claim to a large area of unalienated Crown land in the Tanami Desert area of the Northern Territory, north-west of Alice Springs. Although described as the 'Warlpiri land claim', the claimants included members of the Kartangarurru and Kurintji tribes as well. 
Hearing of the claim commenced on 6 March 1978 and concluded on 26 May 1978, with some 137 persons appearing as witnesses. The Commissioner found that there are traditional Aboriginal owners of the whole of the area claimed and that traditional attachment to the land claimed is very strong. The Commissioner has therefore recommended that the land claimed should be granted to Aboriginal land trusts for the benefit of those he found to be the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land. I have accepted the Commissioner's recommendations. I shall establish these land trusts and will recommend to the Governor-General that a grant of an estate in fee simple for the land be made under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. 
In case honourable members are concerned over the future of the Tanami Desert Wildlife Sanctuary, the whole of which is included in the land claimed, I might draw attention to the Commissioner's comments on this matter at paragraphs 363 to 409 of the report. The Commissioner found that the Aboriginals have a real attachment to and concern for their traditional country. He considered that if there is an unconditional grant of this land to a land trust the probabilities are that the traditional owners, through the Central Land Council, will enter into a satisfactory agreement with the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission for the management of the land and that no serious harm will result. In any event, the Wildlife Sanctuary will continue to exist under Northern Territory law for two years and I expect, as did the Commissioner, that an agreement would be concluded in that time. 
The Commissioner considered a suggestion that he recommend the granting of the land on condition that the Tanami Desert remain a wildlife sanctuary. He expressed the view that he has no power to make a conditional recommendation. Likewise, I am advised that the Land Rights Act requires me to accept wholly or wholly reject the Commissioner's recommendations; I have no power to attach conditions to those recommendations. Notwithstanding the legal position, however, the Commissioner felt that a conditional grant of land in this case was not appropriate. 
Although this is the second report of the Land Commissioner it is also a historical document as the Commissioner has decided to recommend the granting of all the land sought by Aboriginals. This should demonstrate to those people who were critical of the judgment in the Borroloola case that each claim before the Commissioner will be decided upon its merits and that one cannot judge the whole operation of the Act on the outcome of one decision. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Public Service Board has informed me that it has not been advised of any instances of departmental telephone switchboards being left unattended towards the end of the day. 
The Board has stressed that it is the responsibility of departmental management to ensure that the functioning of flexitime schemes are appropriately matched to departmenta] operating needs and that standards of service are maintained. In this respect, the Board has also advised me that some areas of government have used flexitime to extend opening hours to the public without adding to operating costs. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Two, located at Sydney (Temple Court) and Parramatta (34 Charles Street). 
One hundred and twenty-seven, located at Sydney and Parramatta, as follows: 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Officers of the Department who travelled to Switzerland during the 1975-76 financial year and details of their visits are: 

 Mr K. B. Petersson, Commissioner of Patents, Registrar of Trade Marks, Registrar of Designs. From 3 1 August to 10 October 1975 1-12 SeptemberUNCTAD Meeting of Group of Experts on the Role of the Patent System in the Transfer of Technology to Developing Countries. 17-19 September-Plenary Meeting pf ICIREPAT 23-30 September- Annual Executive Meeting of WIPO and a meeting of the Nice Union Assembly. 1-3 October- WIPO Meeting on Scientific Discoveries. 7- 9 October- WIPO Meeting on International Patent Classification. 

 Mr F. J. Mahony,  Deputy  Secretary.  Mr P.  R. Loof, Senior Assistant Secretary. From 31 August to 13 September 1975. Attended Fifth UN Congress on Prevention of Crime and Treatment of Offenders. 

 Mr L. J. Curtis, First Assistant Secretary. From 29 November to 22 December 1975. 1-5 December- Second Session of the Committee of Experts on the International Protection of Appellations of Origin and Other Indications of Source. 8- 9 December- Intergovernmental Committee of the Rome Convention on the Protection of Performers. 10-15 December- Extraordinary Session of the Intergovernmental Copyright Committee of the Universal Copyright Convention and the Executive Committee of the Berne Copyright Union. 16-22 December- Second Session of the Ad Hoc Group of Experts on the Revision of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. 

 Mr J. T. Howard, Principal Legal Officer. From 4 February to 29 February 1976. Inquiries into allegations regarding overseas loans. 

 Mr F. J. Mahony,  Deputy  Secretary.  Mr G.  R. A. Clark, Principal Legal Officer. From 2 1 April to 1 1 June 1976. Attended the Diplomatic Conference on the Reaffirmation and Development of International Humanitarian Law Applicable in Armed Conflicts. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The number of persons that have been imprisoned by order of State courts exercising jurisdiction under the Family Law Act is not conveniently available in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. The total number of persons imprisoned by the Family Court of Australia, Territory Courts and courts of the other States under the Family Law Act since its commencement is 24. This number does not include persons sentenced to imprisonment who were released on suspended sentence or recognisance without going to prison. 
Section 12 1 of the Family Law Act prohibits the publication of particulars of proceedings under the Act, and, accordingly, I do not propose to provide the names of persons gaoled under the provisions of the Act, except where publication has been authorised by the Court in a particular case. 
I am informed that the Full Court of the Family Court authorised publication of the fact that on 24 November 1 977 Daniel Henry Kramer was imprisoned for 3 months by order of the Full Court for contempt of the Court 
The terms of imprisonment actually served by the 24 persons referred to in ( 1 ) above are as follows: 
New South Wales (6 persons, including  Mr Kramer)-  14 days; 2 days; 14 days; 14 days; 1 month; 3 months. 
Victoria (4 persons)- 2 days; 1 day; 2 months; 2 months. 
Queensland ( 1 person)- 3 months. 
South Australia (3 persons)- 14 days 1 day; 14 days. 
Western Australia (3 persons)- 6 days; 24 hours; 1 month. 
Tasmania (5 persons)- 14 days; 1 month; 3 months; 2 months; 30 days. 
Australian Capital Territory (1 person)- 5 terms totalling 1 year 1 1 months 6 days. 
Northern Territory ( 1 person)- 6 months. 
I present the proposed guidelines for official witnesses appearing before parliamentary committees and seek leave to make a statement in relation to the guidelines. 
Leave granted. 
Presentation of these guidelines was foreshadowed on 8 June by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  in a statement on legislation committees, and by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  the following day in a statement on access to official information. The increasing activities of committees of the Parliament have led to growing requests for the provision of written and oral evidence by official witnesses from government sources. Potential witnesses, particularly those who have had little prior experience of appearing before Parliamentary committees, are uncertain as to their position and the procedures to follow. The Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration (RCAGA) reported in the following terms: 
Principles and procedures have previously been suggested by a former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, and a former Solicitor-General,  Sir Kenneth  Bailey, in relation to inquiries by the Joint Committee on Public Accounts and the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances respectively. These proposals have not been formally endorsed by the Houses of Parliament but appear to have been used as Guidelines, (para 5. 1 .3 1 ) 
The Royal Commission made a number of suggestions in paragraphs 5.1.27 to 5.1.39 of its report. In brief, the Royal Commission recommendations supported Government preparation, for the guidance of officials and for discussion, of a statement of the principles and procedures it would wish to be followed when evidence from official witnesses is sought, and a set of instructions for guidance of officials whose attendance before parliamentary committees might be requested or required. The Royal Commission raised the possibility that the Government, having taken this step, might think it appropriate to move for the establishment of a joint select committee of Parliament to consider and report on the desirability of dealing with the matter by statute. The Government had already asked officials to pursue their examination of this matter. The Government's views are in general agreement with the main thrust of the Royal Commission recommendations for issue of guidance to officials. 
Subsequent to the Royal Commission Report, on 25 March 1977 the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations CAGEO submitted to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  a detailed proposal on the protection of witnesses appearing before parliamentary committees. The Prime Minister advised CAGEO on 2 1 April 1977 that its views would be taken into consideration. The CAGEO submission ranged much more widely than the matters pursued in this statement, proposing legislation covering the whole area of parliamentary witnesses, including witnesses other than official witnesses, and detailed provisions concerning counsel and rules of evidence. It raised fundamental issues concerning the relationship between Parliament and the judiciary, as well as the Executive. 
The Government considers that these wider and more controversial issues should not become entangled with the narrower and less controversial issue of limited, non-legislative guidelines for appearances by official witnesses. Some of those issues will be within the terms of reference of the proposed review of parliamentary privilege arising from the report of the Privileges Committee of the House of Representatives presented on 7 April 1978. In the light of the Government's consideration of these matters, the attached proposed guidelines on what Ministers expect of their departments have been prepared. Before outlining the principles on which the guidelines are based, one particular point should be made. While referring to situations where Ministers might consider claiming privilege, this statement and the guidelines do not attempt to resolve the complex question of 'deadlocks' between the Parliament and the Executive on such claims. 
The report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System, submitted in May 1976, indicated that the Committee found itself unable to offer any clarification of the rules of Crown privilege. Its comments included: 
One of the most vexed questions of committee procedure is that of the application of the rules of crown privilege. It is all very well to say that Ministers should give evidence to committees on policy matters, that public servants should give evidence on fact and that matters which are confidential for reasons of security or because they represent the confidential advice of a public servant to his Minister should not be disclosed by public servants. But what questions should or should not be asked or answered will always be one of interpretation . . . (para 299). 
The events in the Senate in July 1975 when the Senate attempted to question public servants on certain matters have shown that neither House is likely to overcome the use of crown privilege unless the government is prepared to release the relevant information. This is obviously applicable to committees, (para 302). 
Earlier,  Senator Ivor  Greenwood- at that time the Attorney-General- and  Mr R.  J. Ellicottthen Solicitor-General- canvassed relevant complexities at some length in 'Parliamentary Committees: Powers Over and Protection Afforded to Witnesses' Parliamentary Paper No. 168 of 1972, as did the Senate Standing Committee of Privileges in its report on matters referred by Senate resolution of 17 July 1975, Parliamentary Paper No. 215 of 1975. It is not intended to canvass these issues here, other than to note the reference- in the dissenting report of Senators Greenwood, Webster and Wright to that report of the Senate Committee of Privileges- to the views of Professor Archibald Cox of Harvard University on the United States situations. It states: 
He discusses the difficulty of formulating any rule prescribing the occasions when withholding of evidence by the Executive from a demand of the Senate would be appropriate. He accepts the view that the Courts should not have jurisdiction to adjudicate in such matters. He would be content to leave questions of executive privilege vis-a-vis Congress to the ebb and flow of political power (page 1432). He pointed out that Congress has powerful political weapons ( page 47). 
The attached guidelines were developed with four major considerations in mind: 
the importance of promoting the freest flow of information through the parliamentary committees to the public consistent with the protection, in the national interest, of the necessary confidences of government and the privacy of individual citizens; 
the achievement of a proper balance between the need of governments to preserve some confidences and the need of parliamentary committees to be able to conduct thorough inquiries; 
confirmation of the line of responsibility between the Executive and Parliament, where Ministers have the central role in dealings between the Executive and parliamentary committees and should respond to Parliament, and where officials are responsible to Ministers; 
the maintaining of the traditional political impartiality of officials. 
The Government sees it as fundamental to the operation of our system of government that government and the committees approach hearings in a spirit of co-operation and with a full recognition of the function each has in that system. Claims of privilege would not, of course, be made by Ministers without substantial cause. These considerations are in harmony with the  principles of ministerial responsibility which underlies the relationships of Ministers and officials in their departments, as is the current general practice of committees addressing to Ministers their requests for nomination of official witnesses to appear and for provision of documents. The guidelines are tabled so that they may be considered by all concerned. The Government will review the guidelines in the light of comments on them and experience in their operation.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have the guidelines incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

PROPOSED GUIDELINES FOR OFFICIAL WITNESSES APPEARING BEFORE PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEES 
This statement contains general guidlines it is proposed to apply to the provision of evidence to Parliamentary Committees by officials of departments- paragraph 35 refers specifically to officials in statutory authorities and members of various Government-appointed advisory councils or committees. 
Where special provision is made by statute in relation to the giving of evidence before Parliamentary Committees, the provisions of the relevant Act prevail- see paragraphs 32-33. 
Paragraph 34 relates to committees that are concerned with administrative aspects of government. 
Preliminaries to an Inquiry 
. As a matter of practice, arrangements for an official to attend a Committee inquiry in an official capacity, or to provide material to it, are made through the relevant Minister. 
A Minister may delegate to the Permanent Head the responsibility of nominating to a Committee the official(s) most appropriate to provide the evidence sought by the Committee from the Department. 
The original official statement, and the provision or production of other documentary evidence, will be cleared with the Minister, or upon his direction, by the Permanent Head, before it is submitted. 
A request for more time to prepare evidence may be made to the Committee by the Minister (or the department acting on his behalf) if the notice is considered insufficient. 
Preparation for Hearings 
Witnesses are to prepare themselves thoroughly before hearings including, as appropriate, by consultation with the Minister (and, if required, the Minister representing him in the other House), e.g. on possible claims of privilege or requests for the hearing of evidence in camera. 
When the interests of several departments are involved, adequate consultation is to take place in preparing material and making arrangements for witnesses to attend. 
In the normal course, Committees should be provided with a written statement on which subsequent oral evidence will be based. In addition, where written questions have been forwarded by the Committee, written replies should also be provided. 
In some cases it may be desirable for there to be informal consultation between the Minister and the  Chairman  of the Committee to consider ways of making available to the 
Committee information of a confidential nature which it considers essential to its purposes, without endangering the preservation of essential confidentiality. 
Conduct during Hearings 
The Government sees the role of an official witness as being to speak to any statement provided to the Committee (see paragraphs 3 and 7) and to provide factual and background material to assist understanding of the issues involved. 
The Government does not see it being the role of the official to take policy positions or to answer questions: 
seeking his personal views on Government policy 
seeking evidence or identification of considerations leading to a Ministerial or Government decision or possible decision, unless those considerations have already been made public or the giving of evidence on them has been approved 
which would require the witnesses to advocate or defend Government policy, or canvass the merits of Government (including State or foreign Government) policy or policy options- past, present or future 
on matters which could give rise to a claim of privilege (see below). 
1. The  Chairman  can be asked to rule out of order questions falling within paragraph 10. If an official witness is directed to answer such a question, he should ask to be allowed to defer his answer until he has discussed the matter with the Minister or Permanent Head. 
As an alternative to the approach suggested in paragraph 11, it may be appropriate for the official witness to refer to the written material provided to the Committee and offer, if the Committee wishes, to seek elaboration from the Minister (this would apply to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 10), or to request that his answer to a particular question be reserved for submission in writing. 
Questions may arise which an official witness may need to answer because they are within the role of providing factual and background material but which would also have wider implications because they are within an area of public controversy. This points to the need for the witness in his preparation to give thorough consideration to any wider ramifications of the matter under inquiry. 
It is important that as questions are answered during hearings, witnesses should take care not to intrude into responsibilities of other departments and agencies (see also paragraph 6 above, which relates to preparation for hearings). Where a question falls within the administration of another department or agency an official witness may request that it be directed to that department or agency or be deferred until that department or agency is consulted. 
Claims of Privilege by Ministers 
Claims of privilege should only be made by a Minister (normally the responsible Minister), consulting the Prime Minister where necessary. 
As far as practicable, the question whether a claim of privilege should be made should be decided before a hearing, so that a certificate by the Minister can be produced. 
7. If an official witness, when giving evidence to a Committee, believes that circumstances have arisen to justify a claim of privilege he should request a postponement of his evidence, or of the relevant pan of his evidence, until the Minister can be consulted. (See also paragraph 8 above. ) 
8. It should be noted that privilege can be claimed in respect of oral evidence as well as documents. 
Documents-or oral evidence- in respect of which Ministers may wish to consider claiming privilege may include matters which fall within the following categories: 
Cabinet (and Cabinet Committee), Executive Council and Loan Council documents and proceedings 
communications between officers and Ministers and between Ministers 
material the publication of which would be injurious to the national interest, e.g. matters relating to defence, internal security, confidential communications with other countries and with the States 
opinions of the Law Officers of the Crown and legal advice to Ministers, departments and Commonwealth Government authorities 
communications between officers and between officers and third parties relating to the formulation of policy  (0  material which, by statute, is required to be kept secret, e.g. section 1 6 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
There are documents within the foregoing categories which within themselves may not appear to warrant a claim of privilege but the production of which may affect subsequent claims of privilege. There should in such cases be consultation with the Minister, and where necessary the Prime Minister, as provided in paragraphs 15-17. 
In addition to the documents mentioned in paragraph 1 9 there are other documents and there is other oral evidence in respect of which privilege might be claimed, depending on the circumstances. It is not possible to give an exhaustive list, the question in each case being whether the balance of public interest is against disclosure of the material. 
The following list will give some indication of the possible nature of the material referred to in paragraph 21, but it is important that each matter be considered in the light of the particular circumstances: 
communications between Ministers and third parties 
medical, financial and other personal information relating to private citizens and officers, e.g. medical reports, financial returns 
material obtained from individuals or corporations in confidence or in circumstances where there is a duty not to disclose it 
material which, if disclosed, might injure or substantially embarrass private citizens 
information obtained by officers relevant to possible breaches of the law. 
Documents that are given one of the usual security ratings as 'Confidential ', 'Secret', or 'Top Secret' would normally be included under one of the categories in paragraph 19 above. Before producing a document bearing such a classification, an official witness should seek instructions from the Minister. (Note: It does not follow that documents without a formal security classification may not be the subject of a claim of privilege. Nor does it follow that classified documents may not in any circumstances be produced. Each document should be considered on its own merits and, where classified, in consultation with the originator). 
In relation to oral evidence, the same considerations apply as to the contents of a classified document and as to information which, while not contained in a document, is of a Confidential, Secret or Top Secret nature. 
Evidence in Camera 
There may be occasions when a Minister would wish, on a balancing of the public interests involved, to raise with the  Chairman  the possibility of an official producing documents or giving oral evidence in camera and on the basis that the information be not disclosed or published except with the Minister's consent. 
There will be circumstances where an official witness may have to request that his evidence, or part of his evidence, be heard in camera. These circumstances might include: 
cases where, although a claim of privilege could be justified, the Minister considers that the balance of public interest lies in making information available to the Committee on the basis that it be heard in camera and not disclosed or published except with his consent 
cases where, while a claim of privilege may not be justified, there are other special considerations justifying the Committee being asked to take the evidence privately, e.g. where a private individual might unfairly be prejudiced by public disclosure, say of a conversation between him and the witness 
cases where similar or identical evidence has been previously given in camera to other hearings of the Committee or other Committees of the Parliament and has not been made public. 
If an official witness when giving evidence to a Committee believes that circumstances have arisen to justify a request that evidence be heard in camera, he should request the postponement of his evidence, or of the relevant part of his evidence, until his Minister can be consulted and approval obtained. 
In the event of an officer being asked by a Committee to give evidence 'off the record', he should request a postponement until his Minister can be consulted. 
Publication of Evidence 
After perusing the record of their evidence official witnesses should suggest any necessary corrections, for incorporation or noting in the published record. Where these affect the substance of the evidence previously given, it may be necessary to seek the agreement of the Committee on the way in which the correction should be made, e.g. by tendering a subsequent statement. 
If an official witness believes, after perusing the record, that he has omitted to give some relevant evidence, he should, after consultation with the Minister (or Permanent Head) seek leave of the Committee to lodge a further statement supplementing his earlier evidence or to give further oral evidence. 
1. An official witness has no authority to consent to the disclosure of publication of evidence given in camera. This is a matter for the Minister, or the Permanent Head acting on his behalf. 
Statutory Committees 
The Public Works Committee Act and the Public Accounts Committee Act provide for the summoning of witnesses and raise some special considerations: e.g. in section 23 of the Public Works Committee Act special provision is made in relation to the hearing of evidence in confidential matters. 
In these and similar cases the special provisions of the relevant Act take precedence. 
Committees Concerned with Administrative Aspects of Government 
Where a Parliamentary Committee is one which, by its nature, concentrates on the administrative aspects of government and the subject of the Committee's inquiry is directed towards the examination of departmental administration  and practice it is for the Permanent Head, with the general consent of the relevant Minister, to use his discretion as to the extent to which aspects of these guidelines such as the clearing of written evidence and the selection of witnesses, are to be followed. 
Non-departmental Official Witnesses 
It is difficult to generalise on the wide range of relationships between Ministers and instrumentalities, advisory councils and committees, etc. As appropriate, suitable arrangements should be made with the Minister concerned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.57 to 2.15 p.m. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith) by leave- The matter under consideration is the Government's guidelines in respect of witnesses who are to appear before parliamentary committees. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has made a statement and has tabled guidelines which are of some length and of some significance because, if we are to make Parliament effective and strong, it is important that we have strong parliamentary committees. The best way to get strong parliamentary committees is to have the best possible information made available to them, and to guarantee that no question of information being kept back by governments arises. We find it difficult enough in the everyday proceedings of this House to obtain all of the information that we think the public should have. So we welcome the statement and note that it flows from the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. As everybody would be aware, that royal commission was initiated in 1974 by the Labor Government. It was under the chairmanship of  Mr H.  C. Coombs. Its report is most important and one which needs consideration in a number of areas. 
The Minister's statement does raise some serious and, we would say, possibly contentious questions which we can enumerate as follows: Firstly, public accountability of government in all of" its areas; secondly, freedom of information; thirdly, the rights of public servants; fourthly, Crown privilege; and fifthly, parliamentary privilege. In the statement the Minister referred to the review of parliamentary privilege that is being undertaken by the Privileges Committee. We wish to remind him that parliamentary privilege and Crown privilege are two separate and different things, and that they may well represent conflicting doctrines. They are two separate matters altogether- parliamentary privilege, which basically we can control, as against Crown privilege which, of course, can be the subject of discussion both here and in any court of law. Perhaps an example of this could be provided by the events of" 16 July 1975 when, as honourable members will recall, the Senate decided to call public servants before the Bar of the Senate. I think that was the wrong thing to do from the point of view of the Senate, but in the narrow context of whether public servants should be giving evidence to members of Parliament, I see no reason why there should have been a suggestion at that time that they should be able to claim, as was done, Crown privilege. In other words, I object to what the Senate was misused for on that occasion to beat up an air of scandal and corruption and to use public servants for that purpose. Leaving that aside, I do not think that necessarily, in the normal context of what Parliament means, Crown privilege was the best way of meeting the challenge. As honourable members will recall, most of the information sought by the Senate had been tabled and disclosed in this House: 
As far as the guidelines are concerned, we make the point that claims of privilege should be made only by a Minister, or by the production of a certificate from a Minister. We regard that as sensible and to be commended. However, the range of matters which are considered to fall within the concept of privilege- they are enumerated in guideline 19- are very wide indeed, particularly in relation to the proposed freedom of information legislation. For example, it includes Cabinet decisions, any communications between officers and Ministers, legal advice to the Government, and communications between Ministers and third parties. We can well understand that at the time a matter is under consideration by the Government, for example legal advice should be the subject of privilege, but surely after the matter has been determined and the decision made public, the advice also ought to be made public. It is no longer sub judice in terms of being subject to consideration. In view of our commitment to freedom of information, it is our view that Crown privilege should be either abolished or at least seriously redefined. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Government has introduced the Freedom of Information Bill, which has been severely and properly criticised by people outside this Parliament, as well as by the Opposition within it. We hope that the Government will reconsider the whole subject of Crown privilege in terms of what may happen to the freedom of information Bill, which has now been referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. We are very hopeful that that impartial consideration by the Committee will bring forward a much stronger and better Bill, from the point of view of guaranteeing to the people of Australia that information will be made available to them. The Opposition moved an appropriate motion in the Senate and was pleased to note that the Government accepts it and is referred to that Committee. The ritual stamping of documents with such ratings as confidential, secret, and top secret also needs reconsideration. We hope that this will happen within the freedom of information context. 
There could be parliamentary committees to which public servants may wish to give evidence, no doubt in camera, about public service procedures. The Royal Commission into Government Administration was an example of such a committee, although it was not a parliamentary committee. Under the Public Service Act there are a great number of strictures which seriously confine public servants in regard to what they may say about the Government or the Public Service. If we want to improve the performance of the Public Service, as I am sure we all do, the one group to which we should listen very closely is the public servants themselves. It is all very well to invite submissions from the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, and other public service associations, but there are individual public servants who have views about specialist areas, views which are best brought out by their being able to comment reasonably, freely and openly as to what they think should be the situation. Doing that in front of parliamentarians is the best way for us to make Parliament stronger. 
There are in the guidelines certain trivial and almost patronising instructions to public servants such as that contained in guideline 5, that witnesses are to prepare themselves thoroughly. One would have thought that hardly needed to be said. The Minister makes continual reference to ministerial responsibility. This is, of course, a most important concept of parliamentary government but one that is, unfortunately, overworked in a modern context. We believe in the right of the public to be informed about government administration and ministerial responsibilities should be used as an aid to this end, not as a justification for keeping people uninformed. 
The Minister has asked for comments. Those are some of the comments that the Opposition wish to make at this stage. We note that it will be some two or three months before the Government finalises its deliberations in this matter and we are very concerned to note that at that stage, perhaps, the freedom of information legislation still will not have been released by the Senate Committee. In the context of what we hope that 
Committee will do to the freedom of information legislation, we think that it has a major influence on the guidelines for witnesses. In other words, they should be able to give as much information as possible and only in the strictest circumstances should the question of privilege be used to prevent parliamentary committees from getting information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Public Service Regulation 32 (b) provides that every officer shall behave at all times with courtesy to the public, giving prompt attention to all reasonable requirements. Section 55 ( 1 ) of the Public Service Act provides that an officer who commits any breach of the provisions of that Act or the regulations shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable to such punishment as is determined upon under the provisions of section 55. 
Public Servants: Employment after Retirement on the Ground of Invalidity (Question No. 1625) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The letter of 26 June 1978 was stamped 'Secret' in error. 
It would appear so. 
5 ) See answer to (3 ) above. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Federation was formed in 1974 to support local Aboriginal family education centres using materials and methods originally prepared in association with the Adult Education Department of the University of Sydney. 
Yes. 
Grants-in-aid will be made in 1978-79, as in previous years, for educational projects initiated and supported by Aboriginal communities. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department consulted with traditional owners on the extension to the Arnhem Highway on 20-2 1 May and between 18-21 August for the purpose of ascertaining the location of any Aboriginal sites of significance on or near the alignment of the proposed extension of the Arnhem Highway. 
The Northern Land Council was aware of the Departmental consultations and declined to co-operate in the discussions of 20-21 May but participated in the August consultations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs is available in the 1978-79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs is available in the 1978-79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs is available in the 1978- 79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs in available in the 1 978-79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs is available in the 1978-79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs is available in the 1978-79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs is available in the 1 978-79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs is available in the 1 978-79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs is available in the 1978-79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Apart from the consultations mentioned in my answer to Question No. 1815 officers of my Department have not been involved in any meetings between the Northern Land Council, local Aboriginal people and Pancontinental Mining 
Company to explain the Jabiluka Draft Environmental Impact Statement. The Northern Land Council is an autonomous Statutory Aboriginal body. (2), (3) and (4) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Northern Land Council is an autonomous statutory Aboriginal body. 
, (3) and (4) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The appointment of  Mr Ray  McEwan from Western Australia to the position of Secretary-General and  Mr Graham  Paulson of Canberra as Executive Officer of the National Aboriginal Conference Secretariat, was announced by the  Chairman  ofthe NAC,  Ms. Lois  O 'Donoghue, on 1 1 September 1978. 
The role ofthe NAC is explained in detail in a statement I made to the House of Representatives on 30 May 1 977 (see  Hansard,  pages 2 104-2 111). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) If the honourable member wishes to read the judgment referred to, I can provide a copy of it. The defendant in the case appealed to the Privy Council which reversed the decision of the Queensland Supreme Court. 
and (3) No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) I have read the report of the Queensland Parliamentary Commissioner for Administrative Investigations dated 6 April 1976. The Report includes findings that the Aurukun people were aggrieved and offended regarding the lack of promised consultations on mining, and accordingly held fears on the protection of their way of life. The Commissioner recommended further consultations. 
The Report made no mention of Church advice to Aboriginals on the question of mining or participation in negotiations. 
See answer to ( 1 ). 
Incidents associated with the Funeral of an Aboriginal at Woorabinda  (Question No. 1950) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No. These are matters for investigation by the State authorities concerned and for legal action by the Queensland Aboriginal and T.S.I. Legal Service acting on behalf of the Aboriginal people involved who may wish to seek redress.. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l) to (4) The question of financial and other support to the National Aboriginal Conference for the holding of a conference of the World Council for Indigenous Peoples in Australia in 1979 .s under examination. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) The selection of staff for the NAC secretariat is a matter for the NAC itself. 
1 understand that a letter asking  Mr Anderson  to telephone  Mr McNamara  about interview arrangements was sent to him on 2 1 July 1 978. No response was received to this letter. 
See answer to (2) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. I attended a bush meeting in August 1 976 when proposals to dam the Docker and Gregory Gorges on the Fortescue River in Western Australia were discussed with State officials. 
Since this meeting, a detailed study of the area has been made by officers attached to the Western Australian Museum. Their findings are contained in a report 'Aboriginal Sites on the Fortescue River: Portland River to Millstream', completed in March 1978. The principal recommendation is that some 38 sites be reserved and vested in the Aboriginal Lands Trust of Western Australia. The report is still under consideration by the State Government. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Kimberley Land Council has not applied for financial assistance and no grant by my Department has been approved. 
DrugB-15  (Question No. 2352) 
On 16 March 1978 the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  asked the following question without notice: 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether depositions relating to a conspiracy case in the Special Federal Court in Sydney late last year involving a  Mrs Patricia  Moylan were removed from that Court without the knowledge or approval of the presiding magistrate? Who took this action and did it occur the day after the same depositions were unsuccessfully sought by counsel representing a  Mr Frank  Christopher Lawrence in similar proceedings in another court? Further, were both cases related to the importation of cannabis into Australia? 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am informed that the events referred to by the honourable member were as follows- 
On 19 October 1977, the transcript of committal proceedings in progress against  Mrs P.  M. Moylan was re- - moved from the Office of the  Clerk  of Petty Sessions, Phillip Street, Sydney, on a written direction from the Under-Secretary of Justice of New South Wales, who is the superior officer of the  Clerk.  That direction ordered the  Clerk  to make the transcript available to a member of the staff of the New South Wales Royal Commission into Drug Trafficking and the  Clerk  duly acted in accordance with that direction. 
The direction to the  Clerk  to make the transcript available was brought to the notice of the Magistrate presiding over the committal proceedings as soon as possible on 19 October 1977. The Magistrate adjourned the court to make enquiries. 
On 20 October 1977 the Magistrate, on resumption of the proceedings, informed the court that he had been told by the Department of Justice that the transcript would be returned that same morning, together with all copies. The Magistrate also said that he had been given an undertaking that no other copies had been made, that no notes had been taken as to the identity of witnesses or the value of evidence given, and that no further attempts would be made to obtain the transcript without the consent of the Commonwealth authorities. He also stated that he had been assured that the transcript had been sought only for use of the New South Wales Royal Commission. 
The removal of the transcript did occur on the day after Counsel appearing for  Mr F.  C. Lawrence in a bail application before other sittings of the court sought access to the transcript of the proceedings against  Mrs Moylan.  That request was refused. 
The proceedings against  Mrs Moylan  and against  Mr Lawrence  both related to charges of conspiracy concerning the importation of cannabis into Australia.  Mrs Moylan  and  Mr Lawrence  were convicted on those charges. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. I am keeping in touch with the Northern Land Council to follow what is happening in carrying out the procedures of the land rights legislation with regard to the proposed Ranger agreement. The House will recall that, following litigation, it was a term of settlement that there would be consultation with various communities and with the traditional owners to determine which communities are affected and require to be consulted under the legislation. A meeting has been going on at Oenpelli in the uranium province area over the last couple of days. I expect to receive a report tonight and will be in a position to advise the House more completely tomorrow on the result of that meeting. That is not to say that there will be a final decision tomorrow or within the next few days on whether the Ranger agreement will be agreed to by the NLC. 
However, it may be of some interest to the House to know that not only have I been keeping in contact with the Northern Land Council but also that last Friday I found that a  Mr Muller  travelled to Darwin and had some discussions with the Northern Land Council. When I inquired about who  Mr Muller  was I found that he was employed as an electorate assistant by the honourable member for Reid. I found also on further investigation that  Mr Muller  is currently acting in a new position of assistant private secretary to the honourable member and that that position was approved recently by the Leader of the Opposition.  Mr Muller  is therefore entitled to travel at government expense on the business of the honourable member for Reid. Honourable members will recall that when I went to Darwin late in September at the time of the litigation I discovered that there was a web of intrigue involving the Labor Party spreading throughout Arnhem Land. Since then further evidence has been coming to hand as to just how far the Labor Party is involved in pursuing its own political interests and not the interests of the Aboriginals. 
Not only has  Mr Muller  been involved recently, but also I ought to inform the House just what he was on about. He suggested to the Northern Land Council that what it ought to do was to delay as long as possible the discussions that are now going on within Aboriginal communities.  Mr Muller  said that the Labor Party is going pretty well at the moment- in its eyes- and that there will be an election in 18 months and if negotiations can be strung out over those 18 months there will be a Labor government and, of course, it would not allow uranium mining to continue. That is blatant action of a vested nature and of a political kind by the Australian Labor Party. It is designed not only to frustrate the negotiations that have been carried out with regard to the Ranger mining but also to destroy the credibility of the Northern Land Council. We know also that the Labor Party inspired a move to bring down the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council, Galarrwuy Yunupingu. I have no hesitation in expressing my complete confidence in the capacity and the credibility of  Mr Yunupingu  in seeking to fulfil his statutory responsibilities and those of the Northern Land Council under the land rights legislation. 
But events involving the Labor Party do not stop at  Mr Muller.  I have also discovered that in the last day or so  Mr Bob  Collins, the Labor 
Party member for Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory Assembly, was instrumental in organising a charter plane to take people to Goulburn Island for a rally, so it was called, to meet  Mr Yunupingu. 
-So I think the web of intrigue is becoming more apparent. As the days go by, the honourable member for Port Adelaide might wish to know, we will gather more and more evidence of the involvement of the Labor Party, of its attempts to destroy the Northern Land Council and the credibility of its  Chairman  and hence of its attempts to frustrate the Ranger negotiations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The November 1973 statement of the Liberal and National Country Parties' Aboriginal Affairs Policy indicated that in recognising the land rights of Aboriginals in the Northern Territory, we would ensure: that mineral prospecting and mineral development should only be allowed under strict Government control and in a manner which protects sacred sites and reflects the views and needs of the traditional Aboriginal owners; that royalties from mining be used for the benefit of the Aboriginal people and that a fair proportion thereof be paid in trust on behalf of the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land on which mining is conducted '. 
and (3) Yes. See answers to questions in the House of Representatives in 1976 relating to this matter  (Hansard,  page 864). I have indicated earlier this year that I intend to have further discussions with the companies concerned and with the Aurukun community. 
As the honourable member indicates in his question, I informed the House yesterday that a meeting was proceeding at Oenpelli involving the traditional owners of the region and others. I have received a report of that meeting and it indicates that at this stage the traditional owners have not given their consent to the Northern Land Council to enter into the Ranger agreement negotiated between the Commonwealth and the Council's negotiators. That is disappointing to the Government because our policy with respect to uranium mining is quite clear. I should also make it clear to the House that the issue involved here is not whether mining will proceed but, pursuant to the terms of the land rights legislation, that the terms and conditions of mining must be agreed between the Northern Land Council and the companies involved in the mining. In this case the Commonwealth is directly involved because it is a joint venturer. 
Honourable members will recall that yesterday I indicated some of the evidence which is to hand about the web of intrigue which the Labor Party has been weaving over Arnhem Land for the sole purpose of disturbing Aboriginal interests in a way which would lead to frustrating the attempts of the Government and the Northern Land Council to reach agreement. Further evidence has come to hand, and I am sure that the Leader of the Opposition will be very interested in the document which I have in my possession. It is a letter from the Shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Dr Doug  Everingham, to the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council,  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu.  Mr Yunupingu,  in a  written advice to me, has authorised me to release the contents of this letter, because in that advice he says: 
The letter was dated 21 September, 1978 and referred to the use of Aboriginals by the ALP for ALP purposes. 
I will read what the letter says. 
In view of the continued attempts by Labor interests to interfere in the affairs of this Council and to manipulate Aboriginal people, I am prepared to authorise you to use in any way that you see fit the letter from  Mr Doug  Everingham, M.P., to myself. 
It is dated - 
-I will. I am glad that the honourable member wants me to read it all out because I will do that. It is dated 21 September 1978 and addressed to  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu of the Northern Land Council. Of course, 21 September was the time when the litigation had been commenced in the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory and discussions were going on between  Mr Yunupingu  and other Aboriginals involved in that litigation. The letter reads: 
Dear Galarrwuy, 
I can understandyour feeling that the ALP maybe using Aborigines for their own vested interests. It is true that some people, most of them on the Labor side of politics, care more about stopping uranium mining or changing the Government in Darwin or Canberra than they do about Aborigines or land rights. 
I am not one of them. I hope my speech in the House on 20 September 1978 and on TDT (southern States) will help to persuade you of this. 
I have heard that many Aborigines have a mind to remove you on 2 1 December 1 978 from your Chairman 's job. I have been thrown out of a job as Health Minister and Parliamentarian in 1975 by a Governor-General and an election and so I guess I know the sort of feeling this could bring about. So in case it happens to you I want to tell you how it affected me. 
I was depressed that I had not been able to persuade people of my hard work- the hardest I've ever done- my capacities and my good intentions. 
Slowly I came to be thankful for the rest. I took a (part time working) holiday for 6 months away from phones with my wife. Some of our (adult) children joined us for part of this time while they were on holidays. I got through half a roomful of papers I'd collected 'to look at later' for 30 years. I did a refresher course and worked for a few doctors in my old job. Finally I went back to campaigning and acting like a local representative, at the end opening an office with my local State member to help local people with Federal problems as Federal members do. 
I'm sure I'm doing better work and happier with it as a result of the break, and I believe if I'd missed on re-election I would still feel that way in some other job. I'm nearly twice your age, so you will do better than I did in adjusting to whatever you have to do. 
If you are in real trouble- I don't mean just like the drinking charge I read about a few months back, but something that your own people can't help with- something which might be helped by a white man interested in hearing blackfeller secrets if they want to tell him and willing to tell whitefeller secrets if people want to hear them-then I would like you to think of me as a former family doctor who had a large following of Aboriginal patients years ago, who took time to explain things to them and who would like to be thought of as your friend whether our politics is the same or not. 
I look forward to seeing you whenever I'm in the Territory. 
With warm regards. 
Yours sincerely. 
Let me make it quite clear - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 


 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by what was said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden). 
The AttorneryGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The following table sets out the number of private persons authorised as civil marriage celebrants by the AttorneyGeneral in each State and Territory, together with dates of appointment and the number of marriages recorded as having been solemnised by each celebrant up to 30 June 1978. The figures are based on returns supplied by the celebrants themselves. Figures for individual celebrants are not readily available from Registrar's records. I have assumed that the honourable member's question does not refer to religious celebrants or State officials. 
by leave- Before debate commences on this Bill I wish to foreshadow that it is the Government's intention vo move certain amendments to the Bill. Copies of the amendments have been circulated to honourable members. The amendments concern the two important areas of the Bill, that is, the provisions which introduce a new disciplinary code within the Australian Public Service and those which relate to the rights of officers of the Public Service who move to other areas of Commonwealth employment. The majority of the amendments are technical in nature, brought about by deficiencies that have come to light since the Bill's introduction. The remaining amendments result from representations made to the Government. The nature of the amendments will be explained more fully during the proposed Legislation Committee consideration of the Bill. 
This debate has ranged from matters directly related to the estimates of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs with a discussion of the appropriations for the current financial year to points taken by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  concerning the role of the negotiator Stephen Zorn during negotiations relating to the Ranger agreement and statements by the honourable member for 
Reid  (Mr Uren)  concerning recent events surrounding the actions of the Northern Land Council in seeking to obtain a ratification of the agreement that was negotiated between the Commonwealth and that Council. Let me therefore, within the time that is available to me, take up some of those matters. Firstly, the matter which was raised by the honourable member for Reid was picked up again today by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  I wish to refer to an article that appeared in the  Canberra Times  of 13 September 1978. It was written by Sunanda K. Datta-Ray, the  Canberra Times  Indian correspondent who visited Australia recently. The article concerns particularly the position of Aboriginals in relation to uranium mining. He made some very pertinent observations concerning the matters that I raised in this chamber at Question Time on Wednesday and Thursday last week and which were raised by the honourable member for Reid in his contribution to this debate.  Mr Datta-Ray  states: 
In a sense, I felt, that the anguished debate over uranium mining has clouded the issue and distracted attention from the crux of the matter.  Dr Joe  Camilleri,  Dr Geoffrey  Moseley, the conservationists and environmentalists, the pacifists and the anti-nuclear lobby, all those dedicated groups of progressive young people I met in Canberra under the aegis of the Labor Party's  Mr Frank  Muller, may or may not have a valid case. That is beside the point. What is definitely not is that they are pressing Aboriginal land rights only and exclusively in support of their own campaign against the mining companies and the Government's uranium export policy. 
I have no doubt but that if the Aborigines were to turn round tomorrow and announce that they welcome uranium exploration, these very champions would do a volte-face and insist with equal vehemence that the indigenous people have no prescriptive claim over unalienated Crown lands. 
That is precisely the point that I was making last week. It is precisely the point that was made by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  in the letter that he wrote to the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. I also refer honourable members of the Opposition as well as members on my side of the chamber to the second reading speech of the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Les  Johnson, on  16  October 1975 when the Whitlam Government introduced its Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill 1975. He stated: 
I hope that it will not be necessary to invoke the national interest provisions of this Bill, and that with goodwill from all parties- the Aboriginal landowners, the prospective miners, environmental interests and the Government- a reasonable and effective solution can in most cases be found to protect the Aboriginal interests and to meet desirable national development goals. 
I invite any honourable member to test what this Government did in August last year in its uranium decisions in all these areasenvironment, Aboriginal interests and development- against this statement by the then Labor Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I say without hesitation that the decisions that we have made and our efforts in seeking to balance all these interests have been made with the goodwill of all parties. The Aboriginal interests can be protected at the same dme as desirable national development goals are achieved. I invite honourable members to listen also to what was said further in that second reading speech.  Mr Les  Johnson said:   the vast substantial increase in the national welfare which could be derived from development of the Ranger project could not lightly be overlooked. Should the Government feel obliged to invoke the national interest provisions in the Bill in view of these factors, discussions would be held with those affected. These discussions would include the matter of royalties. I should add that any decision to proceed with the development of the Ranger project will depend upon the Government's consideration of the findings of the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry which is now taking place. 
They are precisely the kinds of considerations which this Government had in mind when making its decision in August 1977. 1 again ask any honourable member in this House to test what we, as a government, did in August 1977 and have done since then pursuant to the provisions of the Aboriginal land rights legislation against the second reading speech of the then Labor Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
I touch upon one other statement that was made by the honourable member for Reid. It concerns the criticism by the honourable member of  Mr Alex  Bishaw, the Manager of the Northern Land Council. The fact is that  Mr Bishaw  has had a long and respected career in Aboriginal affairs within the Northern Territory. He holds the belief that those who are employed to advise Aboriginal people have a responsibility to put a balanced presentation of the facts in respect of any issue so that the Aboriginals being advised can make an informed decision, based on objective advice. The honourable member for Reid said that  Mr Bishaw  was a member of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. He holds no such position. He in fact gave away the security of his position in the Public Service to undertake service for the Aboriginal people with the Northern Land Council. I understand that  Mr Speaker  wishes to come into the chamber before the sitting is suspended. Therefore, I think that perhaps we should report progress. 
Progress reported. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was speaking to some points made in this debate by the honourable member for Reid concerning  Mr Alex  Bishaw, the Manager of the Northern Land Council. I was pointing out that the statement made by the honourable member for Reid that  Mr Bishaw  is a public servant from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is wrong and that he had resigned from the Department some time ago when he was chosen by the NLC from a field of applicants to take on the position of Manager of the Council. In other words, he abandoned the security of the Public Service in order to serve the Aboriginal people represented by the Northern Land Council. I can only condemn the honourable member for Reid when he attacks the integrity of a man such as  Mr Bishaw,  who has been prepared to serve the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. I can only condemn the honourable member for Reid for attacking what  Mr Bishaw  attempted to do in good faith at the Red Lillies meeting between the Northern Land Council and the traditional land owners. 
As I said,  Mr Bishaw  was seeking to put a balanced presentation of the facts in relation to the ratification of the negotiated agreement between the Commonwealth and the Northern Land Council. I am informed that  Mr Bishaw  was obliged to do that because of the prior conduct of the former solicitor for the Northern Land Council,  Mr Stuart  McGill, who had so abused his responsibility as solicitor to the NLC, as a servant of the Aboriginal people, that he used his position to try to persuade the NLC to act in a particular way against its will. It was left to  Mr Bishaw  to try to provide some balance to the advice being provided to the Aboriginal people by  Mr McGill.  It is because  Mr Bishaw  is not prepared to toe the line put by any particular political party or by any particular interest group that he is now the subject of intense criticism from the Australian Labor Party in Canberra and from the Australian Labor Party in Darwin. 

 Mr Bishaw is being subjected to abuse from those people who would want to see the Northern Land Council act as a vehicle to achieve their own political ends rather than for it to act as an instrument to pursue the interests of Aboriginals.  Mr Bishaw  opposes the use of the Land Council for these purposes and believes that the Aboriginal land councils of the Northern Territory should remain apart and divorced from the fortunes of any particular political party. That is the view I hold because if ever these land councils are to perform the duty that is cast upon them by the land rights legislation they must eschew political activity so that when the time comes in the ebb and flow of politics they will be in a position to serve the Aboriginal people, whatever political party is in power in Canberra or in Darwin. 
I felt obliged to bring those matters forward in the debate because of the way in which the personal integrity of  Mr Bishaw  has been attacked by the honourable member for Reid. From the matters to which I have referred in this debate, the comments that were made by  Mr Datta-Ray  in the  Canberra Times  of 13 September 1978 which I already have read to the House, plus the information I brought to the attention of the House last Wednesday concerning  Mr Muller  of the staff of the honourable member for Reid and the letter written by the honourable member for Capricornia, we can see the attempts that have been made by the Labor Party to serve its own interests and not the interests of the Aboriginals. Finally on this point I quote again from the article written by  Mr Datta-Ray  when he wrote of  Mr Frank  Muller, the same Frank Muller who is on the staff of the honourable member for Reid.  Mr Datta-Ray  stated: 
That is beside the point. What is definitely not is that they are pressing Aboriginal land rights only and exclusively in support of their own campaign against the mining companies and the Government's uranium export policy. 

 Mr Datta Ray was writing there of  Dr Joe  Camilleri,  Dr Geoffrey  Moseley and  Mr Frank  Muller. What a trio! Their activities have been exposed to this chamber and to the people of Australia. As I have said, the Commonwealth at all times has pursued the spirit of the Woodward recommendations and has pursued the responsibilities of the Commonwealth under the land rights legislation in the negotiations that have been carried out concerning the Ranger agreement. I am quite sure that in that spirit and in the pursuit of the land rights legislation in the end a result will be reached. It will be a result which is satisfactory to the Aboriginal people, satisfactory to the Government and satisfactory to the people of Australia. In the end it will be shown to have brought together the vital interests- all of which are national interests in their own right- of those people who are concerned about the environment and the interests of the Aboriginal people and those people who are concerned to see desirable national development through the mining of uranium. 
Having said that about the matters introduced by the Opposition in the debate on these estimates, I turn to some of the particular aspects of the appropriations of my Department for this financial year. Some attempt- I must say a paltry attempt- has been made by the Opposition to attack those appropriations. I would make the point immediately that direct spending on Aboriginal programs this financial year will represent an increase of 9. 1 per cent over that for 1 977-78, which is greater than the increase of some 7.7 per cent in Government expenditure overall. Therefore, even in a time of such economic restraint, the Government has recognised the urgent need to fund Aboriginal programs adequately. By any standards, our Aboriginals are a greatly disadvantaged people and the Government has provided for an increase of 9. 1 per cent in the appropriations of my Department, as against 7.7 in the Budget overall. 
I shall now give quickly some of the figures which relate to key areas of my Department's programs. For Aboriginal health the total expenditure in 1977-78 by way of State grants and grants-in-aid was $16,289,000. For this financial year, the appropriation is to be $17,487,000, representing an increase of $1.1 98m or 7.4 per cent. Upon education, State grants and grantsinaid last year totalled $8,248,000. For this financial year the appropriation is $9,270,000, an increase of $1,022,000, or 12.4 per cent. Upon employment, the expenditure last year by way of grants-in-aid and State grants totalled $6,386,000. For this year $6.9m is to be appropriated, representing an increase of $514,000 or 8 per cent. Upon welfare programs last year expenditure by way of grants-in-aid and State grants totalled $2,994,000. For this year the appropriation is $3,435,000, an increase of $44 1 ,000, or 1 4.7 per cent. 
Upon training programs the total expenditure last year by way of State grants and grants-in,aid was $1,621,000. The appropriation fortius year is $2,503,000, an increase of $882,000, or 54.4 per cent. I emphasise the expenditure on training programs. For the first time training has been identified as a separate line item, in the appropriations of the Department. This has been done to emphasise the Government's policy of selfmanagement, through training in management and other skills. We have brought together under one heading some of the appropriations that were previously made under other headings and have added certain new programs. We are committed to our policy of self-management because we believe that through it the Aboriginal people will be given, in an economic and social sense, equality of opportunity of a kind that they have never previously enjoyed. But we recognise that if the policy of self-management is to succeed, Aboriginals must be equipped with the skills and resources to manage their own affairs. It is not enough to thrust this responsibility upon them, and to fail to recognise that they need certain skills and resources if they are to carry out that responsibility. 
I look forward to seeing in future Budgets increasing amounts allocated under this heading of training throughout Australia. We recognise that only by a greater Government effort, by marshalling all of the resources of the Comonwealth and State governments, and by injecting further funds for training, can we achieve fully our objective of bringing self-management to the Aboriginal people. It is the one program that I wish to emphasise heavily ; but if any honourable member takes the care to go through all of the programs of the Department he will note significant increases throughout; as I have indicated that the Government's priorities are squarely set so as to alleviate poverty and through selfmanagement provide greater opportunity in economic and social matters. 
This year a total of $40m is being allocated for the provision of some 887 houses, as against 557 in the last financial year. As well, 105 additional beds are to be provided through Aboriginal Hostels Ltd. A sum of $5.35m will be provided to the Aboriginal Loans Commission. This will enable the making of 195 home loans. The additional allocation for housing, which in itself reflects the priority that this Government gives to that aspect, amounts to $5. 24m more than the provision made for 1977-78. 
The Government recognises the heavy unemployment that exists in Aboriginal communities and amongst Aboriginal people throughout Australia, whether in an urban or rural situation, or in remote areas. The Government's programs are designed to overcome that problem as much as is possible- whilst recognising that we still have a long, long way to go. We do not underestimate the task that lies ahead, but approximately $7m is provided for employment. Of that sum almost one half, or $3.2m, will provide employment for an additional 650 Aboriginals through special works projects. 
The community development employment projects scheme, which is designed especially for remote communities, operates as pilot projects in 10 centres in Western Australia, South Australia and the Northern Territory. It is part of the Government's national employment strategy. The total number of persons employed under the CDEP scheme is estimated to be 776. The remarks of the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs reveal an abysmal understanding, if one might so put it, of the way in which that scheme is organised, and of what it is intended to achieve. This scheme is intended to respond to what Aboriginals want. One of the things that has struck me immensely in visiting the Aboriginal communities has been the constant theme about unemployment benefits and employment. Aboriginals say to me constantly: 'We do not want to receive sit-down money. We want to work'. 
The CDEP scheme is designed to provide work for those Aboriginals who are prepared to work. If in these remote communities work is offered to them and they decline it, naturally they disentitle themselves, under the ordinary work test, to unemployment benefit. The CDEP scheme is designed to reflect what Aboriginals want. They want to work if money is provided and work is available, rather than to receive the socially destructive unemployment benefit. It might be worth while for honourable members to recognise that in Australia there are many Aboriginal communities which flatly refuse to take unemployment benefits. In how many places in Australia can that be said of the white community. Many Aboriginal communities, of their own volition, deny themselves unemployment benefit. They have seen what sit-down money, as they call it, does to their people. 
These are only some of the things that the programs of the Department, under this year's Budget, will achieve. I could go on to illustrate just what health, education and other programs will mean to people and to communities; how we are supporting in all walks of life Aboriginals who want to help themselves, who no longer want simply to receive a Government handoutbut projects designed to support the work that they want to do within their own communities and for themselves. I can only commend Aboriginal communities throughout Australia for the way in which they are responding to our programs. As each year goes by and we tailor our programs to their needs as expressed to us through their representatives, such as the National Aboriginal Conference members, and through the programming conferences that my Department organises throughout Australia, I can see a much brighter future ahead for Aboriginal people than they have seen before. 
As all these programs of the Department develop, measured merely in money or through the activities of the National Aboriginal Conference, the Council for Aboriginal Development or the Government's land rights policies and other policies that honourable members will see in time to come, this Government will be able to look back upon its period of administration of Aboriginal affairs and say that it has given Aborigines a new look at the future- something for which they have been waiting for years and years but which has never been provided. I look forward to my continuing opportunity as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to discharge my responsibilities to the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The following table sets out the names of private persons authorised as civil marriage celebrants in the Electoral Division of Bowman, together with the number of marriages recorded as having been solemnised by each celebrant during (a) 1976, (b) 1977 and (c) the period 1 January to 30 June 1978. The figures are based on returns supplied by the celebrants themselves. Figures for individual celebrants are not readily available from Registrars ' records. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1),(2)and (3)No 
The Queensland Mining Act 1968 (as amended) makes provision for the payment of compensation to the owner or occupier of private land where the owner or occupier suffers damage by reason of the actions of persons lawfully associated with mining under the provision of the Act. It also makes provision for the payment of compensation to the lessee of Crown land or the owner of improvements on that land for damage to improvements on Crown land by mining or associated activity lawfully carried out under the Act. 
See reply to question No. 1935. 
This matter concerns the responsibilities of the Northern Land Council under the Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. I am fully confident that the  Chairman  and the officers of the Northern Land Council are fully aware of their responsibilities under that Act and that they will carry them out. 
Pursuant to section 5 of the Parliament Act 1974 1 present proposals for the erection of a cooling tower at the rear of Parliament House, Canberra, and police guard boxes within the Parliamentary Zone. I intend to give notice of a motion seeking the approval of the House to the proposals under the terms of the Act. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-Minister for Aboriginal Affairs) (11.1 )- The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  raised in the adjournment debate tonight the matter of staffing the National Aboriginal Conference secretariat position of Secretary-General. The same matter was raised by  Senator Missen  in the adjournment debate last night in the Senate. I would like to take this opportunity to present to this House the background to that appointment. I have asked  Senator Guilfoyle  to make the same information available to the Senate. The NAC interview panel for the NAC secretariat consisted of the following persons:  Mr Jim  Hagen, the  Deputy Chairman  of the NAC and  chairman  of the interview panel;  Mr Lyall  Munro, a member of the NAC;  Mr Bill  Bird, a member of the NAC; and 

 Mr Greg McNamara, a senior officer of the Public Service who was to act as adviser and secretary to the interview panel in a non-voting capacity. I emphasise that he was to act in a non-voting capacity. All the other members of the panel, Messrs Hagen, Munro and Bird, being members of the NAC, are Aboriginals. 
The interview panel met in Canberra on 19 July 1978 to short-list candidates for all positions within the secretariat from all applications received.  Mr D.  Anderson, of 53 Eliza Street, Black Rock, Victoria was included in the short list of candidates for the Secretary-General and Executive Officer positions. Information concerning  Mr Anderson's  availability was required by the interview panel whose NAC members- I emphasise the point that they were NAC members- volunteered the additional information that they thought he was going overseas on a study tour. Despite this information the panel decided to include  Mr Anderson  on the short list for both positions for which he applied, to write to him and ask him about his availability and to arrange, if possible, an interview. A letter was sent to  Mr Anderson  on 21 July 1978 by  Mr McNamara,  acting on instructions from the interview panel. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the letter sent to  Mr Anderson  by  Mr McNamara. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

No reply was received by  Mr McNamara  or the NAC regarding  Mr Anderson's  availability for an interview. The interview panel, which followed similar action for all candidates, did not interview  Mr Anderson  as no reply had been received. The findings of the NAC interview panel were presented to the Executive of the NAC in Adelaide on 9 August 1978 for consideration at an in-camera session.  Mr McNamara,  acting in his capacity as secretary, was asked to present the interview panel 's findings to the Executive. Each NAC member of the interview panel added his own comments to McNamara 's summation. It is important for the honourable member for Lalor to appreciate the significance of the two meetings that I have mentioned and that at the second meeting, on 9 August 1978,  Mr McNamara  reported events which had taken place at the first meeting on 2 1 July. 

 Mr Anderson has been sent a photocopy of the letter sent to him by the interview panel on 21 July 1978. The clerical error associated with the letters sent to  Mr Anderson  informing him that he had not received an appointment to either of the positions he applied for is regretted. The date the letters were dispatched was 6 September 1978, not 6 August 1978 as indicated.  Mr Anderson  stated that he did not receive these letters until 13 September.  Ms Lois  O'Donoghue,  Chairman  of the National Aboriginal Conference, states that the NAC wanted the most suitable person for all the secretariat's positions. The interview panel was looking for the best applicant regardless of whether or not that applicant was an Aboriginal. The appointment of a man of  Mr McE  wen's calibre to the Secretary-General's position was evidence of the importance placed on the secretariat by the NAC executive. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information concerning appropriation and expenditure on Aboriginal programs is available in the 1978-79 Budget Papers Nos 2 and 3. 
Average Weekly Earnings: Effect on Revenue Collections  (Question No. 1888) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
There is no 'destruction of self-help Aboriginal housing programs'. Additional moneys are being provided for support of Aboriginal housing associations. 
The guidelines are set down in Appendix 1 of my recent Ministerial Directive as follows: 
Objective- To ensure the provision of accommodation in accordance with expressed Aboriginal wishes, in a form, manner and location which enhances their ability to pursue a lifestyle of their choice. (The form of accommodation, in accordance with expressed Aboriginal wishes, may range from rudimentary shelters to conventional housing, including prefabricated types). 
Guidelines- It is essential that the objective of any proposed housing project be set by the Aboriginal community and that its terms be discussed and agreed with the community concerned. In particular, the community should control decisions on the planning and design of houses and in the implementation and management of the project. 
Grants to Aboriginal Committee at Aurukun and Mornington Island  (Question No. 2136) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
Grants to Aboriginal communities by my Department are paid direct to these communities. Grants are also made to the States for the provision of health, education and other services and for the provision of housing. 
My Department will continue to pay grants direct to community organisations at Aurukun and Mornington Island. The provision of funds to the Councils for local government purposes is a State Government responsibility. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Consultations have already commenced between the Northern Land Council on behalf of the Borroloola people and other interested parties, including the Commonwealth and Northern Territory Governments and Mount Isa Mines. Both my Department and the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission have had talks with Mount Isa Mines regarding Bing Bong Station. 
Yes. 
I am informed that the Northern Land Council held a meeting with the Borroloola community at Borroloola on 7 August 1978 but that the matter of allowing Mount Isa Mines pipeline and port access was not discussed at that meeting. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
) to ( 7) Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3 ) No computers are owned or operated by my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Mornington Island Canteen reopened on 6 September 1978. 
The reopening followed consultation between the Administrator and the former Councillors. 
I am not able to provide the information sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I indicated in my media release of 19 May I received a telegram on Wednesday 17 May from Aurukun and Mornington Island councillors indicating that whilst still extremely unhappy' with the Local Government legislation they were prepared to 'work under legislation subject to review in six months' by me. 
) I am not aware of any such statement. 
I am not aware of the public animosity of which the honourable member spoke, although I am aware that from time to time people do attempt to make comparisons between the benefits that public servants have against those available in the private sector. The honourable member will recall that about three years ago this Parliament approved a new superannuation scheme in arrangements for the Public Service. Of course, the level of benefits was very closely examined by the Parliament of the day, including the Opposition of the day. If there are any particular aspects of the Public Service superannuation scheme that the honourable member is concerned about and if he would like to give me those particulars, I will certainly obtain details for him from the Public Service. Perhaps that will remove his concern and answer any queries that come to him from the public. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act to give effect to previously announced changes which are designed to reduce the possibility of exploitation and also the overall cost to the Australian taxpayer. Honourable members may recall that a provision for maternity leave and paid benefits for public servants was introduced by a Liberal government in 1966. When the current Maternity Leave Act was introduced by the Labor Government in 1973, members of this Government- then in Opposition- nonetheless gave notice that the provisions of the Act would require careful examination on the basis of experience gained in its administration. This examination has now been undertaken and has also taken account of the relevant International Labour Organisation convention, community practice, particularly the situation in State Public Services, and the application of the present provisions to the particular circumstances of individual employees- for example, persons on leave without pay. The provisions of this Bill reflect the conclusions of this examination. 
Before outlining the changes made by the Bill, I should make it clear that the provision of appropriate maternity leave benefits is seen by the Government as an integral part of the equal employment opportunity policy it follows in relation to its own employees. Without such provisions, a number of women with needed skills and experiences would be lost to the public sector. Proper maternity leave provisions ensure that women, in whom the Government has made a considerable investment in terms of training and development of expertise, are afforded employment protection by being able to continue in Commonwealth employment while also raising a family. 
With the removal of the excesses of the present provisions, the Government believes the revised maternity leave scheme implemented by this Bill to be fair and reasonable, balancing the interests of the Government as an employer against its duty to the Australian taxpayer for restraint. In this respect, I should mention that the provisions of the revised scheme will be kept continually under review to ensure that the benefits are availed of in a proper manner and that the possibility of exploitation is reduced to a minimum. 
The major changes made by the Bill may be summarised as follows: Deletion of paternity leave; introduction of a qualifying period of one year before paid maternity leave is availablehowever, leave provisions, without pay, will continue to apply in the first year of service; removal of automatic access to sick leave, but sick leave to be available under normal conditions; and standardisation of the amount of payment for leave for maternity purposes at twelve weeks pay. 
I now turn to these major changes. Clause 10 abolishes paternity leave. The Government considers that the provision of paternity leave benefits for Commonwealth employees is unnecessary. It is, furthermore, ahead of community standards. Staff who wish to take leave around the time of the birth of the child will still have available to them other forms of leave. These include access to recreation leave credits, flex-time credits and leave without pay. In clause 7, provision is made for the introduction of a 12-month qualifying period in Commonwealth employment before paid maternity leave is available. The introduction of a qualifying period is consistent with the approach taken by State Public Services and with certain other conditions of employment in the Australian Public Service. The main purpose of the qualifying period is to deny the benefits of paid leave to anyone who might seek to enter Commonwealth employment for the primary purpose of availing herself of those benefits. 
Cost savings are expected from the provision in clause 7 which removes automatic access by employees on maternity leave to their sick leave credits. The change proposed by the Government will bring the use of sick leave during a maternity leave absence into line with normal sick leave conditions. For women who do not resume duty following maternity leave, the sick leave entitlement under the existing provisions becomes a 'retirement benefit' not available to other employees on resignation or retirement. Although access to sick leave will become dependent on the production of a medical certificate, women on maternity leave will still be able to draw on their accrued recreation and long service leave credits during the unpaid period of their maternity leave. 
Provision is also made in clause 7 to standardise the amount of payment for maternity leave at twelve weeks pay. Under the present provisions, staff can receive more than 12 weeks pay if the actual date of birth of the child is later than the expected date of birth. The proposed change will ensure that all staff, provided that they have served for 12 months, will receive a common standard of 12 weeks with pay around the time of confinement. This will remove any possibility of staff notifying an early expected date of confinement to maximise their entitlement to paid leave. I should point out that while the amount of paid leave will be standardised at 12 weeks, staff will be able to elect for an additional period of leave without pay to give a total absence of up to 52 weeks. 
Consistent with the amendments I have just outlined, the Bill also makes the following changes. Maternity leave may now begin not earlier than 6 weeks before the expected date of binh. The existing provision enables maternity leave to commence up to 20 weeks before the expected date of confinement; this provision was included in the 1973 Act as an extension of the provision contained in the old section 54B of the Public Service Act and is no longer considered appropriate. Sick leave will be available should there be medical complications prior to six weeks before the expected date of birth. 
Any period of maternity leave that is without pay- that is, any period of leave after the first twelve weeks paid leave- will not count as service for any purpose although it will not break continuity of employment. Under the present provision, unpaid maternity leave counts as service for all purposes. The change proposed will bring maternity leave into alignment with leave without pay for other private purposes. Provision is made in clause 7 so that employees on extended leave without pay will not be entitled to paid maternity benefits for any period during which the employee has been granted leave without pay. Clause 7 also provides that maternity leave benefits will not be available to employees who are on unauthorised absence from duty, unless the Public Service Board otherwise determines in extenuating circumstances. 
In addition, the opportunity has been taken to make the present provisions more flexible by the inclusion of various other amendments. The most important of these concern, firstly, the new section 7- inserted by clause 8 of the Bill- which will enable an employee to continue to work closer than 6 weeks before the expected date of confinement provided the leave officer agrees and a medical certificate is provided; a similar provision will enable an employee to resume duty earlier than 6 weeks after the birth of the child. Secondly, provision is made so that maternity leave may be taken in broken periods, that is, maternity leave may now be interspersed with periods of duty. This change will, for example, enable a mother whose child is hospitalised after premature birth to return to work should she so desire. 
I conclude with an outline of the transitional provisions included in clause 1 1 of the Bill. The amendments made by the Bill will come into operation from the date of royal assent and will apply immediately to new employees who commence duty after that date. Existing employees who have been granted maternity or paternity leave before the commencing day of the amendments, or who are absent on such leave on that day, will not be affected by the amendments. In addition, staff who are eligible for the grant of maternity or paternity leave under the existing provisions and who make application to the leave officer before 1 January 1979 will retain their eligibility for such leave. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by Mr  Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the Superannuation Act 1976 consequential upon the amendments made to the maternity leave provisions by the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1978. Provision is made in clause 7 of the Maternity Leave Amendment Bill so that only the first 12 weeks of maternity leave will be with pay. Any period of maternity leave taken after the first 12 weeks will be without pay and, by virtue of a new section 7b in clause 8 of the Maternity Leave Amendment Bill, periods of unpaid maternity leave will not count as service for any purpose. Consistent with the provisions of the Maternity Leave Amendment Bill, this Bill deals with the situation of contributors under the Superannuation Act and provides the superannuation arrangements that are to apply to contributors on unpaid maternity leave. The arrangements are similar to those that already apply under the Superannuation Act to contributors on other forms of leave without pay which do not count as service for superannuation purposes. 
Clauses 3 and 7 are the key provisions of this Bill. Clause 3 has the effect that any period of unpaid maternity leave will not be included as part of the period of contributory service for superannuation purposes. Clause 7 inserts a new section 51a in the Superannuation Act which provides that where a contribution day occurs during a period of unpaid maternity leave no contributions are to be payable by the female employee on that contribution day. The new section will also enable regulations to be made so that the Superannuation Act may be modified to deal with the various situations that may arise under the new maternity leave provisions. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by Mr  Willis)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That, in accordance with section 5 of the Parliament Act 1974, the House of Representatives approves the following proposals: Erection of a cooling tower at the rear of Parliament House, Canberra. Erection of police guard boxes within the parliamentary zone. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the motion I have just moved is required in accordance with the provisions of the Parliament Act 1974 to permit the construction of a cooling tower at the rear of Parliament House and the construction of two police guard boxes to the rear of the House but within the parliamentary zone. The proposed works will also require the approval of the Senate. As the proposals which I have tabled indicate, the existing cooling towers are approaching the end of their economic life. The capacity of the existing plant will be increased by the erection of a new cooling tower, which it is proposed to locate in a new site to enable it to operate at maximum efficiency. The erection of two guard boxes to the rear of the House will enable better surveillance of the parking area on Camp Hill as well as of the building itself. I commend the motion to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for showing his interest in this subject, as has his colleague  Senator John  Knight.  Senator Knight  introduced  Mr McGuire  of the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded Incorporated to me as a prelude to the annual conference of that Association. I was able to tell  Mr McGuire  of the Government's real concern to see that avenues were open for mentally and physically handicapped people to have more opportunity for employment in the Australian Public Service. I might indicate to the House some of the things that are already being done in this regard. 
The Public Service Board has nominated in each State or Territory a member of its regional office staff to be a special placement officer, obviously to assist prospective employees to find an appropriate kind of employment to meet their handicapped situation. Where an aptitude test is part of the selection procedure for a job the special placement officer is able to arrange special testing of handicapped applicants, where that  is  necessary. An example of this being done is in relation to the blind where some audio tests have been prepared to aid the selection. 
A pilot work experience project was conducted by the Board in 1977 in which 12 handicapped school leavers, including eight who were mildly mentally retarded worked in departments for two days per week and on the remaining days attended school. As the House will be aware, medical standards are a matter of concern to handicapped people. Medical standards for permanent appointment have been modified to facilitate the employment of those persons who may be handicapped but who otherwise would be satisfactory for particular kinds of work. The Public Service Board has also collaborated with other departments in preparing a new code of practices for office accommodation. This would affect both the physically and mentally handicapped. 
Finally, I inform the honourable gentleman that the Board is reviewing its selection process and is considering further changes which may be required to ensure that handicapped applicants are given every opportunity of obtaining employment within the Australian Public Service. The honourable member for Canberra and his colleague,  Senator Knight,  can be well satisfied that the Government takes this area of employment very seriously and is acting upon the representations made to me by the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded Incorporated. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has provided the information in the following table. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Act currently permits a number of courses to be followed in cases where alcohol consumption outside working hours adversely affects work performance or brings the Service into disrepute. Decisions relating to appropriate action (disciplinary, counselling, et cetera) will depend on the individual circumstances of each case. The honourable member will be aware that the present disciplinary provisions of the Act will be replaced on the passage of the Public Service Amendment Bill 1978, currently before the House. 
The question of alcohol misuse is currently receiving close attention within the Service and the Joint Council of the Australian Public Service recently endorsed an approach to the matter which emphasises preventive and rehabilitative aspects (see pages 60 and 71 of the 1978 Annual Report of the Public Service Board ). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is possible that a public servant convicted of a criminal offence might be permitted to remain in the Public Service. At present section 62 (2) of the Public Service Act outlines action which the Public Service Board may take when an officer is convicted of a criminal offence. I would also invite the honourable member's attention to my second reading speech on the Public Service Amendment Bill 1978  (Hansard,  6 June 1978, page 3095). 
As to the Public Service Board's policy on homosexual acts, I refer the honourable member to page 76 of the Board 's Annual Report for 1 978. 
Selling Data-Bank Material Outside the Public Service (Question No. 1627) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Public Service Regulation 34 and section 70 of the Crimes Act 1914 both prohibit the unauthorised or unlawful disclosure of information. 
If proceedings are instituted under section 70 of the Crimes Act an officer may be liable, on conviction, to a maximum penalty of imprisonment for two years. In addition action could be taken under section 62 of the Public Service Act 1 922 resulting in the officer's dismissal from the Service or such lesser punishment as the case requires. 
A breach of Public Service Regulation 34 is a matter which could lead to disciplinary action under section 55 of the Public Service Act. The actions available under that section range from a caution or reprimand to dismissal. 
I am not aware of the particular allegations made by the honourable member. I will refer them to the Attorney-General and provide an answer to the honourable member as soon as I am able to do so. 
The honourable gentleman, as shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, again shows his ignorance of just what kind of a body the Northern Land Council is. It is an independent autonomous statutory body created by the 
Government's land rights legislation. It is therefore in a position - 
I will answer that question. I can assure the honourable member that discussions are going on right now between the Public Service Board and Public Service unions- the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, amongst others- to see that the redeployment of Medibank staff is done fairly and equitably and that those who can be placed in employment in the Public Service will find positions. In fact, I was involved with my colleague the Minister for Health in discussions with union representatives and Public Service Board officers the other night on this subject. I expect that, with the further talks that will proceed- I think there are to be talks tomorrow- in the end a satisfactory solution will be reached. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim annual reports of the Australian Institute of Criminology and the Criminology Research Council for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
by leave- I wish to inform honourable members that the Government has decided to legislate for the creation of an Aboriginal Development Agency which will embrace the present functions of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the Aboriginal Loans Commission, and take over from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs the administration of its Enterprise program. In addition, the Government will be looking to the Agency to put forward new kinds of programs designed to contribute to the self-sufficiency of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island communities. 
In company with the decision to create a new Agency, the Government has also, in accordance with the joint parties' policy statement of 1975, decided to establish an Aboriginals Entitlement Capital Account. This decision flows from the 1975 policy statement of the Liberal and National Country parties which recognised 'the problems flowing from the past dispossession and dispersal of the Aboriginal people and the community's resulting responsibility'. The new Account will be used to fund the operation of the statutory authority. It would receive all the funds currently available to the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission, the Aboriginal Loans Commission and the Enterprise vote of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Additional funding will be considered in the 1 979 budgetary context. 
The creation of this Agency and the establishment of the Entitlement Account represents a significant initiative in Aboriginal affairs and will result in a major new statutory authority. The excellent work of the Land Fund Commission and the Loans Commission will be carried forward and could well be extended into new fields. In addition to funding from Government sources, the Agency will be in a position to develop projects through co-financing arrangements with bodies such as the Aboriginal Benefits Trust Account of the Northern Territory and by the underwriting of normal commercial loans. In accordance with the Government's commitment to the policy of self-management, the Agency will be expected to develop into a wholly Aboriginalrun and staffed body. It will create opportunities for the development of Aboriginal staff training programs which are not feasible under present arrangements. 
The Government has been conscious for some time of the benefits of bringing the developmental activities now conducted separately by the Land Fund Commission, the Loans Commission and by the Department together under the administration of a single agency separate from the Department. Co-ordination of all activities designed to assist in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander economic development, which are at present conducted by three separate entities, will greatly improve their effectiveness. The Agency will assist in the development of land that has already been acquired for Aboriginals, the development of land granted under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act of the Northern Territory, and the stimulation of Aboriginal business enterprises throughout Australia. 
The Agency will be specially designed to assist in programs leading to self-sufficiency. It will, for example, have the flexibility to provide a combination of grant-loan funding in those situations when neither a loan nor a grant is in itself appropriate. In establishing the Agency, the Government will be in a position to learn from the experience gained by the operations of the Papua New Guinea Development Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Whilst these banks would not provide an exact model for the new authority, their experience and method of operation will be closely examined so that the very best features of their operations can be utilised in the new arrangements. 
It has been pointed out to me on a number of occasions by Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders that economic projects need not only financial assistance from Government sources but also technical assistance in the implementation of projects. This point has also been forcefully made by members of the Government parties and the Opposition. It is not sufficient simply to provide Aboriginals with money and then leave them without expert assistance. The new authority will be geared to provide such assistance. It will work through existing functional authorities and may employ its own expert staff. 
It is the Government's intention to involve Aboriginals in the planning of the Agency. The Government will seek comment from Aboriginal bodies such as the National Aboriginal Conference as well as from the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the Aboriginal Loans Commission before the legislation is prepared for consideration by Parliament. I will formally consult the Council for Aboriginal Development on the principles to be embodied in the legislation. 
The decisions which I have announced constitute a break through of substantial significance for the Aboriginal people and will greatly assist in their drive towards self-sufficiency. The new agency will provide a means through which Aboriginals may determine their own needs and priorities and participate in decision making affecting their economic, and thus social place in the community at large. I look forward to the support of honourable members on both sides of the House in developing this new agency. I present the following paper: 
Australian Aboriginal Development Agency- Ministerial Statement, 26 October 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Groom)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
by leave- For some time the Government has been concerned that the operation of the means and needs guidelines of the Australian Legal Aid Office, which were fixed in 1976, has become increasingly severe. This has been because there have been rises in wages and in pension rates without changes in the guidelines. The result of this has been that many persons who would have been eligible for legal aid in 1976 are not now eligible, and legal aid is being refused to persons in real need. 
The Government has given this matter close consideration, as a result of which I now announce certain changes. These changes will apply to all decisions to grant legal aid made by the ALAO on and after 30 October 1978. Some of the changes will effect savings which will allow the guidelines to be significantly liberalised in relation to the permissible disposable income. For the information of honourable members, I table two papers: One titled 'Means and Needs Test and Contributions Guidelines' and the other titled 'Solicitors' fees in Matters under the Family Law Act 1975'. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I now outline the changes. The first change relates to eligibility for aid in dissolution cases. At present a sum in excess of $2m is being spent each year on dissolution cases referred by the Australian Legal Aid Office to private solicitors. The need for legal aid is not as urgent in dissolution cases as in many other family law proceedings, such as custody, access, maintenance, property settlement and injunction matters. The funds that are at present being provided for dissolution cases can be put to better use in these other areas. In future, therefore, aid will not be granted for dissolution of marriage proceedings unless circumstances exist which, in the opinion of the Australian Legal Aid Office, render it imperative that the marriage be dissolved and the applicant is in a position of special hardship. It is envisaged that those special circumstances would arise only on very rare occasions. The procedure to dissolve a marriage is now very simple and it is believed that most people will be able to handle the work themselves, with assistance where necessary from the Family Court staff. In addition to that assistance, lawyers of the Australian Legal Aid Office will be available to advise and assist. 
Another change relates to the contributions payable by assisted persons. At present the ALAO requires contributions to be paid in only about one-third of the cases. This is because the guidelines at present provide that a contribution of less than $25 will not be required. The Government believes that all assisted persons should contribute, except where it can be demonstrated that payment of a contribution would impose a real financial hardship. Accordingly, a minimum contribution of $20 will be imposed in all cases, subject to such demonstrated hardship. 
A court fee of $ 100 is payable to the Family Court in respect of proceedings for dissolution of marriage, but where the applicant has been granted legal aid for those proceedings the applicant is exempt from payment of the fee. As legal aid will no longer be generally available in dissolution proceedings most persons instituting proceedings will in future be required to pay the court fee. This change will not, however, operate where it would impose a substantial hardship on persons instituting dissolution proceedings. The Family Law Regulations at present provide for the fee to be not payable where the Registrar of the Family Court is satisfied that payment of the fee would impose substantial hardship on the applicant, and that provision will remain. 
Solicitors who act for clients who are in receipt of legal aid from the Australian Legal Aid Office are paid 90 per cent of the fees payable under the Family Law (Costs) Regulations. In future those Regulations will not apply to matters receiving assistance from the ALAO. Payment to solicitors in such cases will instead be on the basis of a special legal aid scale which I shall now describe. Under the new scale a fee will not ordinarily be allowed for time spent by a solicitor in court waiting for a hearing to commence or resume or time taken in travelling to and from the court. This is expected to result in an annual saving of $500,000 to the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
The basic composite amount in the new scale will now cover all necessary steps in the action, including, among other things, all conferences, preparation of affidavits, attendances at courts on mentions, adjournments and attending at court on the hearing of the matter for one hour. It is recognised that in some matters the work done by the solicitor, if costed on the present basis, would attract fees in excess of those payable under the new scale. But many matters are settled or otherwise concluded quickly and easily and the real value of the solicitor's work does not justify full payment on the present basis. Under the new scale cases where solicitors are underpaid will be counterbalanced by cases where payment of the basic composite amount is more than generous recompense for the work involved. In these matters solicitors are to 'take the rough with the smooth '. 
Where the hearing of a matter goes beyond one hour, the present hourly rate of $36 paid by the Australian Legal Aid Office will continue to be paid. However, if the hearing lasts a day or more some reduction in the flat hourly rate should be made. Therefore for a hearing lasting one day of an additional four hours the maximum extra payment will be $132. For additional hearing days the payment will be $36 per hour with a maximum of $90 for a half day of three hours and $ 140 for a full day. 
Generally speaking, the conduct of proceedings in courts of summary jurisdiction should be well within the competence of solicitors and it should not ordinarily be necessary to brief counsel in these proceedings. Also, in the Family Court and other superior courts much of the work can properly be handled by solicitors. Therefore, in future, aid will not be provided to brief counsel unless approval has been given by the Australian Legal Aid Office. Approval to brief counsel will not ordinarily be given, except for contested hearings in superior courts. 
Where counsel is briefed in a matter in a court of summary jurisdiction it should not ordinarily be necessary for the instructing solicitor to attend court. The new scale accordingly provides that fees will not be allowed to solicitors for attending courts of summary jurisdiction to instruct counsel. In other courts a solicitor who instructs counsel in court will receive a fee of $30 per hour, with a maximum of $75 for a half day of three hours and $120 for a full day. But only half of these fees will be payable if an unqualified clerk instructs counsel. 
It is realised that in some cases, for example, long defended actions, fees calculated on the basis of the new scale may not provide adequate remuneration for a solicitor. If a solicitor considers that substantially more than the usual amount of work was involved in a particular matter, the Australian Legal Aid Office will give consideration to payment of additional fees if full details of the additional work are submitted. 
The savings which will result from the changes that have been announced will enable the permissible disposable weekly income to be significantly increased. The present guidelines permit a disposable weekly income of $40 for a person without dependants, with additional allowances for dependants. With the savings resulting from the changes it has been possible for the Government to raise the amount of the permissible disposable weekly income by $12. This brings the permissible disposable income for a person without dependants to $52. The adjustment of $12 will flow through to persons with dependants, but there will be no change in the allowances for dependants. 
It is desired to encourage as far as possible the settlement of ancillary matters under the Family 
Law Act, that is, custody, access, injunction and property settlement matters. By this means not only will legal aid funds be saved but also the burden on the courts will be reduced. It is proposed therefore that legal aid for custody, access and injunction proceedings will initially be granted by the Australian Legal Aid Office only up to the filing of a defence. Further aid will be considered on submission of copies of pleadings and any other relevant material so that the merits of the matter can be assessed as far as possible. Aid for property applications will initially be granted up to the stage of a conference under regulation 96 of the Family Law Regulations. Further aid will depend upon the outcome of the conference. 
The Law Council has offered assistance and co-operation in regard to the implementation of these new guidelines. Arrangements are being made for officers of the Australian Legal Aid Office to meet with representatives of the law societies in each State, except Western Australia where legal aid is now administered through a statutory commission. These joint on-the-job committees will have the task of keeping under review these new provisions and considering whether further changes can or should be made to them from time to time. I present the following paper: 
Legal Aid: Revised Australian Legal Aid Office Guidelines and New Scale of Solicitors' Fees- Ministerial Statement, 26 October 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Groom)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
I wish to reply only briefly. I must thank honourable members on the Government side of the chamber for their contribution because I think that when people read  Hansard  tomorrow or in following days, they will see the quality of the contribution from government supporters in contrast to what is really a stereotyped and rather hysterical, but not unexpected, reaction by the members of the Opposition to the statement on legal aid presented to the Senate yesterday by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and by me, on his behalf, in this chamber today. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  quite properly pointed out that within the guidelines announced in the statement an additional $lm will become available to pensioners. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Neil Brown),  quite properly took the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  to task for not quoting in full from the AttorneyGeneral's statement with regard to the contribution of $20 to be made by applicants for legal aid. As the honourable member for Diamond 
Valley quite properly pointed out, the full quotation referred to the fact that the $20 contribution would not be required in cases of real financial hardship. In other words, an important element of discretion is available to the Australian Legal Aid office in those cases where it is established to its satisfaction that the applicant cannot make the contribution by reason of real financial, hardship. I conclude my remarks by referring to a Press release issued this evening by the Attorney-General in answer to allegations raised by the shadow Attorney-General during Question Time today and again tonight by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  concerning an alleged backlog of cases in Victoria. In the Press release the AttorneyGeneral has shown emphatically that the allegations are incorrect. I refer honourable members to that part of the Press release which indicates that the legal aid backlog will be eliminated. It states: 
The Attorney-General,  Senator Peter  Durack, Q.C., said today he had taken steps to eliminate a backlog in legal aid cases, which had accumulated in recent months. 
The Attorney-General said that as of yesterday (25 October) the total backlog of 1,259 cases- which had been approved but which had not been able to be committed to the legal profession for attention- had an estimated value of $333,684. 
Figures for each State were- 
Victoria- 755 cases at an estimated value of $2 1 3,630; 
I seem to recall that this morning the shadow Attorney-General referred to a backlog of 2,000 to 2,500 cases. The Attorney-General has given the true position that 755 cases are involved. The Press release continues: 
New South Wales-95 cases valued at $2 1 ,4 1 2; 
Queensland- 245 cases valued at $66,892; 
South Australia- 60 cases valued at $ 1 0,020; 
Tasmania- 1 04 cases valued at $2 1 ,730; 
Northern Territory- Nil. 
Honourable members will be pleased to note the figure for the Northern Territory. The Press release states further: 

 Senator Durack said he had now directed that commitment funds be made available to each State to completely offset this backlog. 
I believe that following the comments that have been made by Government supporters and the statement put out tonight by the AttorneyGeneral the public will be aware that the accusations and allegations made by the Opposition are completely unfounded, that the AttorneyGeneral, in the new guidelines, has proposed a continuation of the legal aid scheme that will meet the needs of all genuine cases where legal aid assistance is required. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
in reply- In the adjournment debate on 24 October, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  read to the House a letter which was sent to him from  Mr A.  C. Morris of the Aurukun Aboriginal community. I wish to address some remarks both to the comments of the honourable member and to some of the contents of the letter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 
-I require that the debate be extended. 
-In his letter  Mr Morris  stated that he is expected to continue the administration of Aurukun but that the Queensland Government has not reimbursed the Church and has refused to contribute to his salary. Whether the Queensland Government will reimburse the Church for its expenditure and whether the Queensland Government will contribute to  Mr Morris's  salary is, of course, entirely a matter for the Queensland Government and not for the Commonwealth Government. From the beginning  Mr Morris  has been employed by the 
Church. I would point out, however, that the Commonwealth, by an arrangement made earlier this year with the Uniting Church in Australia. has paid to that Church the sum of $240,000 to allow it to continue its work within both the Aurukun and the Mornington Island communities. That money was provided on the basis that if and when the Queensland Government reimbursed the Church for its expenditure in administering the needs of the community, the Church would reimburse the Commonwealth the $240,000 it had provided. That was the clear basis of understanding between the Commonwealth and the Church and it is known to the Queensland Government. 
The Uniting Church no doubt is financing salaries and other expenses from other funds at its disposal while it continues in an administrative capacity. I point out that the Church has not requested any more money from the Commonwealth than the $240,000 already provided. I understand that the Church is in the process of preparing its accounts so that it may submit them to the Queensland Government to seek the reimbursement it understands it will receive. I would go further and say, in response to some of  Mr Morris's  comments, that I am not aware of any decision by the Queensland Government not to reimburse the Church when it submits its accounts in due course.  Mr Morris  makes a comment about the Queensland Department of Health taking over responsibility for the health centre at Aurukun. I understand from the Queensland Minister that his Department will be taking over that responsibility, with the agreement of the community and the community council, but that as yet no date has been fixed for the handover. 

 Mr Morris says that the Commonwealth Government is sitting back and forgetting about Aurukun and starving the local community company of funds. That company is an incorporated body which the Commonwealth has been funding for a number of years in order to support a policy of Aboriginal self-sufficiency in a number of projects within the community. I point out to the House that my Department has programmed a total expenditure of $355,652 for Aurukun, which is additional to the payments the Queensland Government will be making through the Department of Local Government for the ordinary administration. The bulk of my Department's grants are being paid to the Aurukun community company. In addition there is provision totalling $81,400 for grants to the several decentralised or outstation groups. An amount of $85,000 has been provided for work on the airstrip, representing half the cost of the work, which is being carried out under the supervision of the Department of Transport. Quite obviously this work will provide substantial employment opportunities for the Aurukun people, as will the housing and other projects supported through the community company. 
The House will see that funding for the Aurukun community is provided through two avenues; firstly, through the Community Council or the Uniting Church, as I have indicated and, secondly, through the Aboriginal people's own company. To date some $220,000 has been paid this financial year for Aurukun projects, including $75,000 to the Department of Transport for the work on the airstrip which I mentioned previously. I do not know that money is not being provided for wages for the people. Indeed from the figures that I have indicated, quite obviously money is being provided for wages. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The Minister's time has expired. If no other Minister is seeking the call, the Minister may speak for the remainder of the time until 11.10 p.m. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I would add, in response to  Mr Morris's  letter, that a submission along the lines which he sets out in his letter has been made to my Department seeking additional money for the company. It was handed to one of my departmental officers earlier this month. Not unnaturally, since then my Department has been examining the proposal. It came to my Brisbane office on 11 October. There has been no delay in the consideration of that submission but it will be considered in the same manner as any other submission sent to my Department. Provision has been made already for the Aurukun company to review its organisation and operations in view of its increased responsibilities. Furthermore, my Department's Queensland Regional Director has made arrangements with the Department of Social Security for regular visits to be made to Aurukun and Mornington Island to ensure that those people entitled to social security benefits, including unemployment benefits, are able to apply for and receive their entitlements. It is certainly not true to say that the Aurukun community is being starved of funds by the Commonwealth, as the figures I have mentioned to the House clearly indicate; or is it true to say that there is no allocation for Aboriginal wages in the grants to the company. 

 Mr Morris said that I had promised the people that a Council election would be held before the end of this year. When I met with councillors in Canberra- it would be a couple of months ago now or thereabouts- I explained to them the statutory timetable which would have to be followed by the Administrator in order to enable an election to be held. There is a 30-day period within which the rolls are open. There is another 30-day period within which nominations can be received. Following those two periods the election is held. I said to them that quite obviously those statutory procedures had to be followed before the election could be held. Honourable members would be interested to know that it is intended to amend the Act to allow for an election before the statutory date for local government elections in Queensland; that is, before March 1979. I know from my own discussions with the Administrator and from advice given to me by my Department that the Administrator, together with the Community Council, is actively having the rolls completed to enable the election to be held as early as possible. 

 Mr Morris makes a comment on mining. I must say to him and to the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  that it is misconceived. If they read the special local government Act for these two communities they will see that it contains a most important provision which gives to the community shire councils the power which was previously vested in the Queensland Director of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement, as trustee, to deal with mining within that community. Thus, for the first time in Queensland, Aboriginal communities will be able to deal with mining companies which wish to explore or develop their land. On the other hand, I point out that the agreement with the Aurukun Mining Associates, ratified by the Queensland Parliament and challenged before the Queensland Supreme Court and the Privy Council, has been held to be valid and naturally must stand. 
I can inform the honourable gentleman that since the agreement of 1 1 April the Commonwealth has pursued steadfastly, in its dealings with the Queensland Government, the implementation of that agreement. Whilst there have been some difficulties along the waywhich I freely acknowledge- I can inform the honourable gentleman that as of this moment very good progress indeed has been made. 
-In fact, I might tell the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that within the last week shire clerks have been appointed to both Mornington Island and Aurukun Shires. 
The facts upon which the honourable gentleman predicates his question are wrong. The Northern Land Council acted completely in accordance with its statutory responsibilities. The decision that was reached by it after the consent of the traditional owners was received was made in complete accordance with the requirements of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. 
For the information of honourable members I present an agreement under section 44 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 between the Commonwealth of Australia and the Northern Land Council. I seek leave to make a statement regarding that agreement. 
Leave granted. 
-I table, for the information of honourable members, the agreement which includes details of the environmental conditions between the Northern Land Council and the Commonwealth which has been negotiated under section 44 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act in respect of the Ranger uranium deposit and which was executed by the Northern Land Council and myself on behalf of the Government on Friday, 3 November. Annexed to the agreement are the proposed authority to mine under section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act and the determination of payments under section 63 sub-section (5) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. 
In accordance wtih its policy of protecting existing interests in Aboriginal land or land that might become Aboriginal land, the Government in 1976, through section 41 sub-section (2) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, provided that Aboriginal consent was not a prerequisite to the development of Ranger. Nevertheless, section 44 of the Act required an agreement on terms and conditions relating to the development. As honourable members will be aware, an inquiry under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 was established on 16 July 1975 to inquire into the development by the Atomic Energy Commission in association with Ranger uranium mines of uranium deposits in the Northern Territory. 
In addition to the inquiry under the Environment Protection Act the present Government, during consideration of the Aboriginal Land Rights Bill in 1976, introduced an amendment expressly authorising the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry to investigate and make a finding in relation to an Aboriginal land claim in the Alligator Rivers Region. The second and final report, in which the claim to the Ranger area was recommended, was presented to the Government on 17 May 1977. On 25 August 1977 the Government announced that it had accepted almost all of the Inquiry's principal recommendations. I also draw the attention of honourable members to one of the important statements made in the second report and would like to quote directly from it. The Commission stated, at page 9 of the second report, in respect of Aboriginal views that uranium mining should not proceed:   . . we have given careful attention to all that has been put before us by them or on their behalf. In the end, we formed the conclusion that their opposition should not be allowed to prevail. 
The Commission went on to say: 
After consideration of all factors, we propose a solution which, if a decision is made that uranium mining is to proceed, provides a reasonably satisfactory accommodation between competing interests and the conflicting uses to which land in the Region can be put. This is subject to one qualification. The principal threat to the welfare of the Aboriginal people, and the one they most fear, is constituted by the large numbers of people who can be expected to enter the area. We make a number of recommendations designed to minimise this risk. 
In following the solution proposed by the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, the Government announced that it had accepted all of the principal recommendations in respect of Aboriginals. I refer honourable members to the statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  other Ministers and myself in August 1 977 which clearly set out the history of the Ranger project and the decisions of the Government in respect of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. The Aboriginal Land Rights Act has been of direct benefit to Aboriginals in a number of ways. If the Act had not been passed, then there would have been no mechanism allowing Aboriginals to impose special conditions on the development of the Ranger project or to receive any benefits from it. The land upon which the Ranger deposit is located is not land that was historically set aside for the use and benefit of Aboriginals. The good faith of the Government was demonstrated by firstly allowing a claim to the land to be determined by the Ranger Inquiry and secondly by granting title to the land which was recommended. 
At Yirrkala on 6 September of this year, I delivered the title deed to the land which includes the Ranger project area but the negotiations which have now been completed actually commenced in October 1977 as if the land had already been granted to Aboriginals. In accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding concerning Ranger entered into by the previous Government, the deposit will be mined under the Atomic Energy Act and by the Commonwealth in partnership with Peko-EZ. Thus it has been the Commonwealth which has been obliged to negotiate with the Northern Land Council. The agreement that I have just tabled has been the result of a lengthy negotiating process with the Commonwealth within the terms of section 44 sub-section (2) of the Land Rights Act. Six major negotiating sessions were held between the Northern Land Council and the Commonwealth negotiators culminating in the initialling, on 25 August 1978, of the agreement known as the Ranger agreement, which I have tabled. 
The Northern Land Council has, at all times, acted on the instructions of the traditional owners. Three major meetings of traditional owners were held- at Mudginberri in March 1978, at Murganella in July 1978, and Red Lillies in September 1978. There were, furthermore, during this period four meetings of the full 
Northern Land Council and five meetings of the executive. During the course of the negotiations sessions were attended by members of the Northern Land Council, apart from the  Chairman, Mr Yunupingu,  and the  Deputy Chairman, Mr Blitner,  and at least two important traditional owners. At the same time as the negotiations on the Ranger mining agreement were proceeding, detailed negotiations to settle the terms of the agreement associated with the lease of the National Park were being pursued. The Commonwealth advanced funds to the Council to cover the costs associated with the negotiations and consultation process, with no strings attached as to whom the Council might consult. Thus,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  honourable members will see that negotiations have been carried out exhaustively and completely with the direct involvement of Northern Land Council members and traditional owners. 
I must pay tribute to the work done by the Northern Land Council in what was a completely new experience for that body. Since 25 August, the Northern Land Council has had a number of further meetings and discussions which have been widely reported. It is sufficient for me to say that the end result of these discussions and actions was a request from the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council for me to attend a meeting at Bamyili on 2 November to speak on behalf of the Government. I explained to the Council that the Commonwealth was ready to sign the agreement as providing fair and reasonable terms for both parties. There was no talk of arbitration or of any other action by the Government. After a full day's discussion, the full meeting of the Northern Land Council agreed to accept the Ranger agreement, and in the event that the traditional owners gave their consent then the documents would be signed. 
Members of the Northern Land Council were conscious in making this decision that they were making a decision not only for themselves but for the whole of Australia. They also felt that the time for decision-making had come and that the conclusion of the Ranger agreement would be a foundation for the future upon which they could build. The next day I travelled with the executive to Oenpelli to meet with the traditional owners. At the meeting there, the traditional owners gave their consent and, thereupon, the Ranger Uranium Mining Agreement and the lease of the Kakadu National Park were signed. In fulfilment of its statutory responsibilities, the Ranger Uranium Mining Agreement was signed on behalf of the Northern Land Council by the  Chairman, Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu,  Mr Dick 
Malwagu from Croker Island and  Mr John  Gwadbu from Goulburn Island. The agreement for the lease of the Kakadu National Park was also signed and the  Chairman  and members of the Kakadu Land Trust executed the lease documents. The signatures on the lease included Toby Ganggali, a senior traditional owner for the Ranger project area and a member of the Mirrarr Gudjeimbi clan. 
This short undramatised outline of events cannot portray the personal effort of so many people within the Northern Land Council over many months in most difficult circumstances in dealing with negotiations and decisions representing a new experience in Aboriginal affairs. In the course of time, the real story will become known and the distortions, both deliberate and out of ignorance, will be put to rest. 
I would now like to focus attention upon a number of significant actions taken by the Government which enhance the position of Aboriginals in relation to uranium mining. On 9 February 1978, the Prime Minister announced that the Aboriginal people who had submitted land claims over the Stage II area of the Kakadu National Park had been assured that mining interests would not be granted in the area without prior consultation and agreement. Similarly, assurances were given to the Northern Land Council two months ago that, unless the Council agrees, no construction on the extension of the Arnhem Highway would be permitted before a final decision is made by the Government on the development of the Pancontinental project at Jabiluka. Through an amendment to the Aboriginal Land Rights Act, the Northern Land Council has been given standing in the Northern Territory Supreme Court to seek an injunction against the mining operators should it feel that environmental conditions are not being observed. It has been given rights of inspection of operations and documents and is entitled to information so that it may assess whether environmental conditions are being rigidly enforced. This is very important and a major concession to Aboriginal interests as they themselves will have the means to be satisfied that the environment protection measures are being observed. 
The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry highlighted the deleterious effects upon Aboriginal society caused by alcohol in the region and specifically pointed to the Border Store on the East Alligator River as a major factor in this process. The Government recognised the problems being created by the operation of this local outlet and has assisted the Gunbalanya Council at Oenpelli to purchase the store and thus cease the sale of alcohol from this source. As announced on 20 July 1978, the Government has decided that, from 1 July 1979, revenues received by Aboriginal groups from mining operations anywhere in Australia will be taxed on the basis of the standard rate of personal income tax- 32 per centapplied to 20 per cent of gross revenues. The tax will be collected by the withholding system, that is, it will be deducted before payments are made. This decision removes the uncertainty of the tax law in its application to revenues received by Aboriginal bodies from mining operations on Aboriginal land and applies a reasonable rate in light of the community and social purposes to which the revenue will be applied. 
The Commonwealth is presently completing arrangements with the Ranger joint venturers on the terms of the agreement to implement the Memorandum of Understanding signed with the companies by the Whitlam Government in October 1975. That agreement will, in addition, need to take into account the obligations entered into by the Commonwealth in the agreement signed by the Northern Land Council and the Commonwealth last Friday. I expect that these negotiations with the companies will be concluded at an early date when the authority to mine under the Atomic Energy Act will issue. The Government expects that commercial production will be able to start in 1981-82. I now turn to some of the specific aspects of the agreement which will be of direct benefit to the Aboriginal population. 
As the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has pointed out, this matter was raised before the Legislation Committee and was answered by me there. The honourable member's proposition was considered and debated but not accepted by the Legislation Committee; so he has moved this amendment tonight. I will not take up too much of the time of the House on either this amendment or the one which he proposes to move later, but let me restate briefly the position because I feel, with the greatest of respect to the honourable gentleman, that he has rather exaggerated the intention and the implications behind these proposed provisions. As to this amendment, the present provisions in section 55 sub-section (1) paragraph (e) enable disciplinary action to be taken where an officer 'is guilty of any disgraceful or improper conduct, either in his official capacity or otherwise'. On the recommendation of Joint Council- a statutory body on which both staff and management are represented, so it does not have a one-sided attitude- the words 'or otherwise ' have been recast so that in proposed new section 56 paragraph (e) improper conduct is restricted to conduct which has a direct bearing on an officer's ability to continue or to perform his duty satisfactorily or the ability of the Service generally to conduct public business satisfactorily and in a politically impartial manner. I think all honourable members would appreciate the importance of that. In other words, the present open-endedness of the words 'or otherwise' is replaced by a statutory requirement to show relevance to the employment situation before disciplinary action can be taken. 
As I pointed out to the honourable gentleman in the Committee, the words he has objected to, namely, 'bringing the Service into disrepute', are not unknown. In fact, they are fairly common in situations of this kind. I referred to the example in the armed services legislation. Disciplinary provisions there refer to conduct prejudicial to good order and discipline. In other words, it is left to the judgment of the Service, according to its standards. Under the Public Service Act, when a charge is disputed it goes to a board of inquiry, so it is not a matter which can be dealt with simply on the whim of a Minister. In discussing this amendment the honourable gentleman has referred to matters related to his second amendment. For the sake of clarity 1 will leave my comments on the second amendment until it has been moved. 
I thank the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  for his contribution because he has succinctly and ably answered the propositions put by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  The fears of the honourable member for Denison that frivolous and vexatious charges and suspension of officers may occur are no greater under the proposed provisions of this amending Bill than they are under the existing sections of the Public Service Act. In other words if one were of a mind to do so one could make the same kind of statements about the present Act as about the Bill. 
The explanatory memorandum circulated with the amending Bill points out that it was the view of the Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration that 'it should still be open to any person to lodge complaints about an alleged misconduct and that there ought to be administrative procedures to ensure that such complaints are recorded and investigated'. The Bill vests the charging power with the responsible Minister whilst still recognising the right of anyone to bring a matter forward. This applies where the Minister has at any time whether by reason of an allegation made to him or otherwise reason to believe that an offence has been committed. I also point out to the honourable member for Denison that the existing Act provides for the Minister to suspend a First Division officer in the event that a charge has been made by any person. Likewise, the Bill provides for the Minister to suspend a person upon a charge being laid. 
As the honourable member for Casey has rightly pointed out, the Minister by way of the amending Bill will be put in the position of a complainant. Any person can come forward with an allegation and if the Minister thinks that a charge is warranted he may lay the charge. If no person comes forward but circumstances are brought to the attention of the Minister which justify his view that an offence has been committed, the Minister may lay the charges and thereupon suspend. If the charge is not admitted a board of inquiry will hear the charge. I think that this is in complete accord with the principles of justice for criminal offences or quasi-criminal offences as learned by first-year law students. It seems to me that this is the judgment of the peak councils and the joint council. They are quite satisfied that the rights of the individual are fully protected under these provisions. I close by simply pointing out that the amendment can operate as a protection to a permanent head, to a First Division officer, against vexatious or frivolous complaints or charges by a subordinate who may be merely displeased with a decision of his permanent head and therefore wishing to take it out upon him by laying a complaint. With those comments I indicate to the House that the Government is not prepared to accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison. 
I can assure the honourable gentleman that absolutely no preference has been given to Stawell Timber Industries in its dealings with Aboriginal housing associations. The meeting that the honourable gentleman referred to was arranged, as I recall, directly by a member of the company. He made a request to my office and I agreed to see him, as I see many people in the course of my ministerial duties. The information that was given to the company was a list of all the Aboriginal housing associations. I inform the honourable gentleman that that list is in his possession, as it is in the possession of every member and senator. Each year, after the Budget is brought down I provide to all honourable members a complete list of all allocations of funds to housing associations and a variety of other Aboriginal organisations. There was nothing untoward whatsoever in my authorisation of the information to be given to this company and there has been nothing untoward in that company's dealings with Aboriginal housing associations. 
All the contracts entered into by Stawell Timber Industries with Aboriginal housing associations have been entered into in accordance with the financial directives issued by my Department and within the ministerial guidelines issued by me. I know of no circumstance in which the financial situation of Stawell Timber Industries has put any Aboriginal housing association at a disadvantage. I am aware that the Department of Construction being involved as technical consultants to my Department in advising Aboriginal housing associations, has had cause to discuss with the company upgrading the quality of its housing and otherwise improving the services that it delivers to housing associations. I am advised that those discussions with the Department of Construction have been very useful and to the advantage of Aboriginal communities. 
It is entirely a matter for the open commercial market whether Stawell Timber Industries is able to sell its product to housing associations. That company competes with other groups, whether for industrialised housing or for ordinarily constructed housing for those communities. So no preferential treatment is given to this company. It is in the housing business, the same as any other company. It must meet competition as it comes and it must meet the financial directions and the ministerial guidelines issued under my authority. 
Pursuant to section 46 of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Early in July 1978. The advice was provided on 17 October 1978. 
The answers that I gave yesterday to questions are plain enough. If the honourable gentleman has any specific instances that he wishes to bring to my attention I will have them examined and will give him a complete answer to them. 
I indicate by way of preface to the answer that my friend the Minister for Defence, sitting next to me on the front bench, said that he would be pleased to take the brief on behalf of the Commonwealth. Of course, the constitutional position of the Commonwealth here is that only in certain specified areas within the Constitution has the Commonwealth power to make laws which by virtue of section 109 of the Constitution prevail over any competing State laws. Generally speaking, the Commonwealth does not have constitutional power in the area of freedom of speech or freedom of assembly over any such laws that are passed by the States. So it is for each State to pass its own laws either to preserve freedom of speech or freedom of assembly or to detract from them. The Commonwealth does not have any direct power to overrule laws of that kind. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Depending on the circumstances of particular cases it may be that disciplinary proceedings would be instituted. The severest action that can be taken under the disciplinary provisions of the Public Service Act is dismissal from the Public Service. 
If there were a serious case, it is also possible that sanctions of the criminal law could be attracted. For example, an officer who makes a false document, knowing it to be false, with intent that the false document be acted upon to the prejudice of the Commonwealth, could be liable under the Crimes Act 1 9 1 4 to a penalty of imprisonment for ten years. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
1 have seen the article referred to and I have been provided with a copy of the transcript of the proceedings of the case in question. On 9 August 1978,  Mr Andy  Mamarika of Groote Eylandt in the Northern Territory pleaded guilty before  Mr Justice  Gallop in the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory to a charge of manslaughter. Mamarika was sentenced to a term of 3 years' imprisonment which was suspended upon him entering into a recognisance in the sum of $500 to be of good behaviour for a period of 3 years.  His  Honour imposed that sentence after hearing submissions by the prosecutor and the defence counsel concerning the circumstances in which the offence was committed and expert testimony concerning tribal punishment inflicted upon the members of Mamarika 's clan by members of the deceased 's clan while Mamarika was in custody before the committal proceedings in this case. 
The Government is conscious of the difficulties that have, at times, emerged in the application of the existing criminal justice system to members of the Aboriginal race or the other problems that flow from decisions of the kind made by  Mr Justice  Gallop. With a view to finding a solution to those difficulties and to ensuring equitable treatment under our criminal justice system to all members of the Australian community, the Australian Law Reform Commission has been asked to examine the whole question of the recognition and application of Aboriginal customary law. In view of the complexity of the issues involved I shall await the Commission's report before recommending any action in this matter. 
and (4) See ( 1 ) and (2) above. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2090  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2107) 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
1 was explaining the agreement reached at the Premiers' Conference on 22 June that the powers of the States should be extended to the territorial sea and I was making the point that for the purpose of that agreement the existing limit of 3 miles had been accepted. That is to say, that agreement would not apply to the additional territorial sea that would accrue to Australia if it were subsequently to claim a wider territorial sea. 
I assume that the honourable member is referring to the 1958 Geneva Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone. The width of the territorial sea is not defined in that Convention. 
According to the latest information available to my Department, the position is as follows: 
Three miles: Australia*; The Bahamas; Bahrain; Barbados; Belgium*; Bermuda; Chile; Denmark*; German Democratic Republic*; Federal Republic of 
Germany; Ireland; Jordan; Netherlands*; Philippines; Qatar; Singapore; Solomon Islands; Tuvalu; United Arab Emirates; United Kingdom*; United States*. 
More than three miles but less than twelve miles: Finland* (4 miles); Greece (6 miles); Iceland (4 miles); Israel* (6 miles); Ivory Coast (6 miles); Norway (4 miles); Sao Tome (6 miles); Sweden (4 miles); Turkey (6 miles and 12 miles in Black Sea); Yugoslavia * ( 1 0 miles). 
Twelve miles: Algeria; Bangladesh; Bulgaria*; Burma; Canada; China; Colombia; Comoro; Cook Islands; Costa Rica; Cuba; Cyprus; Dominican Republic*; Egypt; Equatorial Guinea; Ethiopia; Fiji*; France; Grenada; Guatemala; Guyana; Haiti*; Honduras; India; Indonesia; Iran; Iraq; Italy*; Jamaica*; Japan*; Kampuchea*; Kenya*; Democratic Republic of Korea; Republic of Korea; Kuwait; Libya; Malaysia*; Maldives; Malta*; Mauritius'; Mexico*; Monaco; Morocco; Mozambique; Nauru; New Zealand; Oman; Pakistan; Papua New Guinea; Poland; Portugal*; Romania*; Saudi Arabia; Seychelles; South Africa*; Spain*; Sri Lanka; Sudan; Surinam; Syria; Thailand*; Togo; Tonga*; Trinidad and Tobago*; Tunisia; Ukrainian SSR*; USSR*; Venezuela*; Vietnam; Western Samoa; Yemen Arab Republic; People's Democratic Republic of Yemen; Zaire. 
More than twelve miles: Albania (15 miles); Angola (20 miles); Argentina (200 miles); Benin (200 miles); Brazil (200 miles); Cameroon (50 miles); Cape Verde (100 miles); Congo (200 miles); Ecuador (200 miles); El Salvador (200 miles); Gabon ( 100 miles); Gambia (50 miles); Ghana (200 miles); Guinea (200 miles); Guinea-Bissau (150 miles); Liberia (200 miles); Malagasy Republic* (50 miles); Mauritania (30 miles); Nigeria* (30 miles); Panama (200 miles); Peru (200 miles); Senegal (150 miles); Sierra Leone* (200 miles); Democratic Republic of Somali (200 miles); Tanzania (50 miles); Uruguay (200 miles). (An asterisk against the name of a country indicates that that country is a party to the Geneva Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone). 
The Government will give consideration to the matter in the light of the outcome of the current United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) As specified in chapter 3 of the Protective Security Handbook issued in June 1 978. 
It has not been possible to ascertain which officer made the error. 
None, other than under the general disciplinary provisions of the Public Service Act. 
(a) None. 
Staff in the relevant areas have been suitably instructed. 
Radiation in the Environment  (Question No. 2633) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are occasions where use of official facilities for nonofficial purposes might properly be authorised by a Permanent Head, particularly where the activity concerned is important for staff relations and morale or is significantly related to Public Service functions. Obvious examples are staff social clubs, staff associations and union meetings, and the Royal Institute of Public Administration. 
In deciding whether to approve the use of official facilities for such purposes Permanent Heads would be expected to take carefully into account the likelihood that any additional costs that might be incurred would be outweighed by the prospect of broader benefits to their Departments or the Service generally. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes.On22 May 1978. 
Yes. On 22 August 1978. 
No. The Chairman's letter to me was marked 'Personal and Confidential ' and I intend to respect his expressed wishes in this matter. 
No. 
In order to preserve the confidentiality of the Commission's negotiations, I will not identify properties which the Commission is considering purchasing. 
I, or my Department, received preliminary advice of the Commission's intention to investigate possible purchases and/or to make initial approaches to vendors of properties on the following dates. The date on which advice of my response was given to the Commission is shown in parentheses. 1 May 1978- (3 May 1978)-two properties 2Mayl978-(12Junel978) 14July 1978- (21 August 1978) 14July 1978- (24 August 1978) 20 July 1978-(24 August 1978) 10 August 1978- (24 August 1978) 10August 1978-(1 September 1978) 10 August 1978- (5 September)- two properties 17 August 1978- (5 September 1978)  14 July 1978-I have this under consideration and will  advise the Commission shortly. 
I received final statements outlining the reasons for proposed purchases, and the financial implications of them, on the following dates. The date on which advice of my response was given to the Commission is shown in parentheses. 14 July 1978- (21 August 1978) 4September 1978- (3 October 1978) 4September 1978- (3 October 1978). 
None. 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No.  2102) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2090  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. I did explain at a meeting on 2 1 August that the Queensland Local Government Act required that a roll of electors should be compiled and that this might take at least a month. The roll must be closed a month before elections. I indicated it might be possible to hold elections in about 2 to 3 months. 
I have no knowledge of such a statement by the Administrator. 
I shall inform the House when a date has been fixed for fresh elections at Aurukun. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that, following an order made by the Queensland Governor in Council on15 August 1 978 dissolving each Council and appointing  Mr K.  P. H. Brown Administrator of each Shire, an interim injunction was obtained on 16 August which restrained the defendants (the Queensland Attorney-General, the Minister for Local Government and  Mr Brown)  from exercising any power to dissolve the Councils except after consultation with me, until midnight on 1 8 
August. On 1 8 August the Court discharged the interim injunction and an order was made for a speedy trial. To the best of my knowledge the matter has not progressed further. 
My Department is meeting the costs of legal services provided for the two Councils and communities since March 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that the North Queensland Land Council was formed following a Land Rights Conference called by the North Queensland Land Rights Committee in January 1977. 1 am not aware of the precise number of delegates to the Council, which is an independently run aboriginal body. 
No. The Council was advised that funds would not be available because of financial restraints. 
The Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1976 commenced to operate on 14 July 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
1 have read the statement. 
I have noted all the views expressed in the statement and will keep them in mind in continuing to implement the Government's policies in Aboriginal affairs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. I understand that the matter was discussed at a public meeting on 24 May 1978. The meeting resolved that the Council should ask the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs,  Mr Porter,  to explain the State Government's stand, that I or my delegate should explain the Commonwealth Self-management legislation at a meeting held 2 1 days after  Mr Porter's  explanation and that, 2 1 days later, a referendum organised by the State or Commonwealth Electoral Office should be held to allow residents to vote on whether or not they wanted the self-management legislation to apply at Yarrabah. To the best of my knowledge, the proposed meeting with  Mr Porter  has not yet taken place. 
2 ) and ( 3 ) See answer to ( 1 ). 
by leave-  Mr Speaker,  on 25 May this year, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced a new Government initiative with regard to parliamentary committee reports. Following the Prime Minister's statement, all committee reports will receive a Government response, to be made by a Minister in Parliament within six months of the presentation of the report. I have the honour to make the first such response, on behalf of the Prime Minister. I would like to inform honourable members of action the Government has taken in response to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment report on annual reports referred to the Committee dated 1 March 1978. In preparing its report, the Committee examined 13 annual reports of government departments and authorities which come within its terms of reference, and commented on the Government's performance as revealed in the annual reports. There were numerous matters raised in the Committee 's report, and I do not propose to respond to every detail in this statement. I can assure honourable members that all the matters raised have been brought to the attention of the departments and authorities concerned, who have given assurances that the matters will be borne in mind during the preparation of future annual reports. 
One matter upon which the Committee commented at some length was the need for government bodies to report promptly to the Parliament, to facilitate parliamentary scrutiny of the Government's activities. The Government shares the Committee's concern, and continual efforts are being made to ensure that government departments and statutory authorities submit reports to Parliament with the minimum of delay. There are of course instances where reports are delayed through no fault of the author, but means of circumventing such delays are being examined. The Committee referred in particular to three annual reports which were over a year overdue when presented. These three reports were exceptional cases. For example, the Cities Commission Report fell due at a time when the department concerned, now the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, was undergoing extensive reorganisation; and the preparation of the report was overshadowed by tasks of greater priority. In cases where annual reports cannot be finalised, for example, where there is a delay due to a statutory requirement for the Auditor-General's certification to appear in the report, it is sometimes possible to submit interim reports which provide the Parliament with much of the information contained in the final report and lacking only the official certification. Standing instructions require this course to be followed. 
Under the heading 'General Comments', the Committee also made suggestions relating to the format and content of annual reports. Points raised included the desirability of appendices which could supply detailed background information about the work of the reporting body. The Committee also suggested that reports could examine the extent to which government bodies are able to fulfil their objectives, and means of improving their performance in this area. The 
Government appreciates the trouble the Committee has taken to remind departments of ways in which annual reports could better fulfil the function of reporting to the Parliament, and the relevant departments will bear these suggestions in mind in the preparation of future reports. The third major point raised by the Committee concerned the effects of staff ceilings. The Government's policy is to maintain the utmost restraint on the levels of public service staffing. During 1978-79 departments and authorities will be expected to absorb new functions and workload increases within existing ceilings unless it is quite unreasonable to do so. The achievement of the ceilings will require permanent heads and Ministers to explore exhaustively the possibility of redeploying staff between functions, deferring programs or reducing the level of staff activity in some areas. I present the following paper: 
Report of Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment- Ministerial Statement, 14 November 1978 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-The Attorney-General has provided, the following answer to the honourable member's question: were circulated: 
1 ) The name of each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking for which the Attorney-General has responsibility is: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Public Service regulation 7 requires all officers ofthe Public Service to acquaint themselves with the Public Service Act and regulations. Regulation 8 provides that supervisors shall ensure that sufficient copies of the Act and regulations are available in work areas to enable officers under their direction to have ready access to them. 
Relevant Public Service regulations include regulation 37, which prohibits the solicitation or acceptance of gifts connected with the duties of an officer, and regulation 34 (a), which provides that an officer shall not use information obtained in the course of his duties for other than official purposes. The honourable member has himself mentioned section 73 of the Crimes Act, which refers to the taking of bribes. 
As the honourable member is aware, the Public Service Board is preparing guidelines on official conduct of Commonwealth Public Servants. The original draft is currently being reviewed in the light of comments received on the Board's discussion paper on the subject. The draft includes paragraphs dealing with the acceptance of gifts and the use of official information other than for official purposes. 
The purpose of the guidelines is to draw attention to the law which governs the conduct of Public Servants in these circumstances as well as to provide practical guidance on how potential problems might be approached. 
Following completion of necessary consultation and review work the Board proposes to circulate the guidelines widely. All Public Servants will have access to a copy. 
-No, the Prime Minister did not discuss those matters with me. 
-Might I inform the honourable gentleman that the Government has absolutely nothing to do with negotiations that are going on between the Northern Land Council and Queensland Mines with respect to the Nabarlek deposits. The Northern Land Council, as I have informed the honourable gentlemen before, is a statutory body having statutory responsibilities. As I understand it, the meeting to be held at Croker Island has been arranged between the two communities concerned- that is, the Croker Island community and the Oenpelli community- and the Northern Land Council is involved because it is the authority which must enter into an agreement with Queensland Mines concerning the terms and conditions for rnining at Nabarlek. I repeat that the Government has absolutely nothing to do with it. It is a matter exclusively for the Northern Land Council in discharge of its statutory responsibilities. 
I do not believe that I have ever seen the letter. I do not believe that I had any knowledge of its contents until the honourable gentleman read them to me. As has been said, the list was supplied to this company on request because it had supplied industrial houses to certain Aboriginal housing associations and it was interested in approaching other housing associations to seek to sell its product. We all know that various things are said by way of sales pitch. It may well be that this is what the company was indulging in. As I explained to the House previously, the fact of the matter is that the Department of Construction, being the technical consultant to my Department, had cause in a number of instances to examine the quality of the work of this company and in so doing it decided that the company needed to improve the quality of its work in certain respects. That advice was given to my Department and to the company. So far as I am aware, the company has improved the quality of its performance. 
-I have not received any representations from any Aboriginal community in New South Wales concerning the matter the honourable gentleman has raised. I do not know whether any such matters have been raised with departmental officers at the area level, but I will check it. With regard to the particular instances to which the honourable gentleman has referred, I will make inquiries within my Department and provide him with an answer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
1974-75-$6,000; 1 975-76-$50,054; 1976-77-$77,450; 1977-78- $163,761; 1978-79-$24,273 (to 25. 10.78). 
To the best of my knowledge, no other Commonwealth Government funds have been provided to either body. 
Postage Stamps: Portrait of Queen Elizabeth II  (Question No.1960) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
(a) Grants to the Aboriginal Lands Trust of NSW will be reduced this year because several communities on reserves have chosen to manage their own affairs and are receiving direct grants for the purpose, instead of having services provided by the Lands Trust. 
Grants to the Lands Trust for new capital items can be made available, in accordance with the normal practice, only after the Budget has been passed. 
I am not aware of any 'false accusations' against the Trust by an officer of my Department nor of any promise to make a public apology. 
See answer to (2). The total amount available through the Trust and by direct grants to reserve communities for essential services, maintenance and housing in 1978-79 is greater than the amount available in 1 977-78. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Full information in relation to the questions raised was provided in a statement which I made on 18 October 1978,  Hansard,  pages 2057, 2058. 
Responsibility for staffing of positions in the National Aboriginal Conference Secretariat rests with the NAC and not the Government. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1 964 1 present the report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
Pursuant to section 43 of the Criminology Research Act 1 97 1 1 present the report of the Criminology Research Council for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the second report by  Mr Shann  Turnbull on economic development of Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory entitled 'Self-Sufficiency (with Land Rights)'. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report of the Australian Science and Technology Council on the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics dated October 1978. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a supplementary report by the Australian Science and Technology Council on the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics dated November 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No Aboriginal workers were sacked from the piggery project at Wee Waa, N.S.W. 
Aboriginal workers at the piggery project are employed by Wee Waa Aboriginal Advancement Association operating as Comserv (No. 36 1 ) Pty Ltd. 
) The Aboriginal Land Fund Commission in trust on behalf of the Wee Waa Aboriginal Advancement Association. 
Comserv (No. 36 1 ) Pty Ltd: Directors controlling piggery funds are  Mr Keith  Morris  (Chairman of the Wee Waa Aboriginal Advancement Association)  and  Mr Robert  Hudson, Pastoral Consultant, North Western Consultants Pty Ltd, Quirindi. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The submission from  Mr Tutt  was made in response to a call for public comment on the draft environmental impact Statement (EIS) in accordance with the Administrative Procedures under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. There is no requirement in the Procedures that such submissions be acknowledged. However, comments on the draft impact statement, including those of  Mr Tutt,  were taken into account in the course of preparing recommendations arising from consideration of the impact statement. 
No. 
The responsibility for the identification and protection of Aboriginal sites in Queensland rests with the State Minister administering the Queensland Aboriginal Relics Preservation Act. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Bill would provide for the Minister for Mines to have authority to consent or withhold consent from mining activity taking place on Aboriginal reserves after consideration of a recommendation from the Minister for Community Welfare. 
The Western Australian Government has indicated its intention to amend the AAPA Act to give the Minister for Community Welfare final authority on the issue of reserve entry permits. In respect of mining activities, it appears that the Mining Bill will give authority to the Minister for Mines. 
It is the policy of the Federal Government that there should be full consultation with Aboriginal communities in respect of activities which are likely to affect their well being. This has been given particular application with regard to mining in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. 1 understand that it is also the policy of the Western Australian Government to take into account the wishes of the Aboriginal people in these matters. 
1 have advised the Western Austraiian Government of my concern about certain aspects of the Mining Bill. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
The Government is providing $60,000 in the calendar years 1978 and 1979 for a two-year pilot nutrition program operated by the Aboriginal Medical Service in Sydney. I am also advised that the Freedom From Hunger Campaign is providing $ 1 12,000 over three years to the Aboriginal Medical Service for nutrition services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The information sought is contained in the following tables: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows- 
The current salaries of Third Division clerical/administrative officers and of Second Division officers are- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is assumed that the honourable member is referring to Public Service Regulation 38 which reads: 
An officer shall not demand, or, except with the approval of the Board, receive for his own use any fee, reward, gratuity, or remuneration of any kind whatsoever, other than his official salary and allowances, for services performed by him either in or out of office hours, in connection with the Service.' 
I am informed by the Public Service Board that a central record of submissions made to the Board under this Regulation is not maintained and any such cases would be processed on separate case files. However, a search of the Board's records has been made and no approval during the past five years could be found. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Service-wide statistics for staff on long-term sick leave are not currently recorded on a divisional basis. Separate figures for the Second and Third Divisions are thus not available. 
Full-time staff employed under the Public Service Act (excluding staff of the Departments of the Parliament) on longterm sick leave numbered (a) 769 at 31 December 1975, (b) 1 189 at 31 December 1976, (c) 151 1 at 31 December 1977 and (d) 1232 at 30 September 1978. 
Pursuant to section 61 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 1 present the report by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prime Minister stated on 9 February this year that the Government will not permit the granting of mining interests over land claimed by Aboriginals in stage two of the Kakadu National Park- and this includes the Jabiluka project areauntil the land claims have been determined. 
The Prime Minister has reiterated to the Northern Land Council that the Government has not made a decision to allow Pancontinental to mine and the Government will not be making a decision until the required processes of the law regarding the environment and Aboriginal land claims have been completed. 
It is therefore premature at this time to speak of an agreement between the Northern Land Council and the company in respect of the Jabiluka project. 
The Government has advised the Northern Land Council that no construction on the Arnhem Highway beyond the existing bitumen will take place, except with the agreement of the Northern Land Council, before a final decision is made by the Government on whether or not the Jabiluka deposit can be mined. 
In the event that the Jabiluka area becomes Aboriginal land, the Northern Land Council will negotiate with Pancontinental Mining Ltd pursuant to its powers and duties under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) Group therapy is regarded as a very useful option in the treatment of alcoholism. Visits by groups of recovered alcoholics can be useful in initiating and in maintaining recovery of local persons with alcohol problems, and even in changing community attitudes to alcohol. It could not be said, however, that they are essential to success in treating these problems, nor that other approaches cannot be equally successful. 
Statistics provided to the Department by Benelong's Haven to date are not sufficiently detailed to allow conclusions to be drawn about the effectiveness of particular approaches. There would be few, if any, rehabilitation programs which depend entirely on one-to-one relationships. Almost all programs utilise group process and recognise the need to go beyond the patient to involve his family and attend to community factors. 
Health Departments have co-operated with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in encouraging the development of the most appropriate program for given settings. An example of this co-operation is the appointment of individual community health workers- Aboriginal Alcohol Counsellors- located in western New South Wales towns. 
The information is not available. Details of grants to Benelong's Haven can be supplied but reliable statistics indicating success rates cannot. Nor can any program be identified as 'the most successful alternative' : there is a variety of other promising programs, including a number similar to the Benelong's Haven program. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to ( 1 ). 
I am pleased to receive the question from the honourable member. I know his interest in the position of school leavers coming onto the job market as well as the position of public servants. He has spoken to me before concerning the intentions of the Government with regard to the voluntary early retirement and redeployment Bill which was introduced into the House in 1976. 
The Government has considered this matter in the light of discussions that have been held between the Public Service Board and the staff organisations. It has decided to proceed with the legislation which was introduced in 1 976. It is the Government's intention to introduce that legislation again in the early part of the autumn session. The Government will be taking into account the discussions that have taken place, as I have said, between the Board and staff organisations. Amendments will be made to the Bill which was introduced in 1 976. 
I remind the House that the legislation is aimed to do two things. Firstly, it will provide an option to employees of voluntary early retirement from the age of 55 with accordingly reduced superannuation benefits. Secondly, it will also provide for the Board or management to initiate early retirement in situations where redeployment is impracticable. But I do emphasise that specific appeal rights will be provided to individuals so that they cannot be adversely affected. The honourable gentleman particularly made mention of the prospect of school leavers being provided with job opportunities as a result of this action. I am sure that there will be increased job opportunities as the vacancies flow down the line from early retirement in particular. It is well known that many long-serving public servants desire to take advantage of legislation of this kind. They feel that they have served the country well and they want to make way for younger people. 
Pursuant to section 5 of the Parliament Act 1974 1 present a proposal for the erection of a viewing platform on Capital Hill. I intend to give notice of a motion seeking the approval of the House to the proposal under the terms of the Act. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Act 1977 I present the report of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission for the period 22 March 1978 to 30 June 1978, together with the text of a statement by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack). 
For the information of honourable members I present the 1978 annual report of Aboriginal Hostels Ltd incorporating the audited accounts for the period ending 24 June 1 978. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 I present the report of the Law Reform Commisson for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 115 of the Family Law Act 1975 I present the report of the Family Law Council for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
by leave- I present the annual report of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the year ended 30 June 1978.  Mr Speaker,  in tabling the annual report of my Department for 1977-78, I wish to inform the House that the Government has recently completed a review of certain basic policies in Aboriginal affairs. This review is part of a continuing process of review and assessment in which increasingly Aboriginals themselves will be involved through institutions such as the Council for Aboriginal Development established by the Government for this purpose. 
The recent negotiations of the Northern Land Council on the terms and conditions for mining of uranium at Ranger and Nabarlek, and the leasing of land for the Kakadu National Park, are only the first of many occasions when Aboriginals, with their own expert advisers, will deal with governments and corporations on a basis of equality to negotiate the conditions on which their lands can be used by others. The new political strength of the Aboriginal voice has also been reflected in the attention given to Aboriginal affairs in this Parliament in recent years. It is reflected in the new significance of the Aboriginal vote in elections. Gone is the indifference of political aspirants towards Aboriginals as voters. The Government welcomes these developments and, to ensure that this political involvement is available to aU Aboriginals no matter what life- style they choose to live, has approved a comprehensive program of electoral education for Aboriginal people living in non-urban areas. This program will commence in March next year and is planned to run on a national basis for at least three years. 
Today, Australians generally recognise the value of the Aboriginal cultural heritage and the contribution Aboriginals are making to our multi-cultural society. They themselves are very conscious now of their cultural identity and of the extent to which it is everywhere threatened and has in many parts suffered loss through the destructive effects of contact. The Government has been helping Aboriginals throughout Australia to maintain, develop and restore and rebuild their cultural identity through the programs of the Aboriginal Arts Board of the Australia Council and through bi-cultural and bilingual education programs. In this context I mention that, in response to requests from several communities, we have been working on proposals for the development of local communitybased broadcasting services for Aboriginals in their own languages. The Postal and Telecommunications Department is currently developing proposals for public broadcasting stations to be operated by certain Aboriginal communities. These will soon be finalised and applications will be invited, these applications to be considered by the Australia Broadcasting Tribunal. In addition, several Aboriginal groups are already making use of the new public radio stations. 
In this modern age, radio and television services are very powerful and influential tools of knowledge and understanding. I have taken steps to ensure that Aboriginals are not deprived of this by directing the Government's working party on Aboriginal broadcasting to give first consideration to remote communities. Accordingly, the major Aboriginal languages which could be serviced have already been identified. I shall be reporting in due course on the outcome of these new initiatives and on other steps to extend broadcasting services, both radio and television, to remote communities in the north. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and. except for the Public Service Board, the statutory authorities within the Prime Minister's portfolio do not own, operate or rent, and are not in the process of purchasing computers. 
The Public Service Board has supplied the following information in relation to the Board's M AND ATA project, which services the whole of the Public Service, and the Burroughs Data Centre, Fyshwick, A.C.T. which provides services to the Departments of Administrative Services, AttorneyGeneral and Trade and Resources, co-ordinated by the Board. 
MANDATA Project (l)(a) One Burroughs 7700 System Thirty-four NCR 8200's. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
Burroughs 7700 System-purchase cost $3,621,865. NCR 8200's-purchase cost $1,694,530. 
Burroughs 7700- Maintenance of personnel records; provision of management information to departments; 
Processing or work on behalf of Departments of the Capital Territory and Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and some limited work for severalother departments. 
NCR 8200- Data entry, data validation, distribution of MANDATA information and software development. 
Burroughs 7700- Personnel and establishments records for the Public Service as a whole; Accounts records for Department of the Capital Territory 
Register of arrivals and departures for Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
Data is entered through visual display units located in departmental offices. These units are connected by Telecom lines to NCR 8200 mini-computers located in capital cities. These mini-computers are in turn connected by Telecom lines to the Burroughs 7700 computer in Canberra. 
Authorised personnel within the Public Service Board and the MANDATA Program Office for official purposes. 
Authorised personnel within departments whose records are maintained by the MANDATA System. Their access is limited to their own department 's records. 
The Departments of the Capital Territory and Immigration and Ethnic Affairs have access to their own records and once again this is restricted to authorised personnel. 
The main impact of the MANDATA System will be in reducing work loads in departmental Personnel and Establishment areas. Direct savings of 10 per cent of staff dedicated to clerical type duties are projected involving a potential saving of some 700 staff spread throughout the Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and, except for the Public Service Board, the statutory authorities within the Prime Minister's portfolio do not own, operate or rent, and are not in the process of purchasing computers. 
The Public Service Board has supplied the following information in relation to the Board 's MANDATA project, which services the whole of the Public Service, and the Burroughs Data Centre, Fyshwick, A.C.T. which provides services to the Departments of Administrative Services, AttorneyGeneral and Trade and Resources, co-ordinated by the Board. 
MANDATA Project 
None of the information stored on the B7700 or NCR 8200 's is intended to be sold, hired, lent or given to other than the authorised users described in part 6 of Question No. 2204. 
Staff associations have been assured that statistical data based on the stored records will be made available to them under the same terms and conditions applied to information currently supplied. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Public servants exercising discretionary powers are, of course, bound to exercise those powers in accordance with any applicable statutory and common law rules, including principles of natural justice. Where a member of the public is dissatisfied with the action taken by a public servant including a decision made by him procedures are available for the independent review of that action- see, for example, section 1 5 of the Ombudsman Act 1 976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 9(2) of the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975 provides a basis for any Aboriginal or Islander convicted of an offence by an Aboriginal or Island court to seek through the Courts to have his conviction set aside. The Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service is able to advise Aboriginals and Islanders wishing to appeal against convictions. The Service has advised that to date no action has been instituted on the basis of the provisions of Section 9 (2) of the Act. 
As a matter of law, courts in Queensland must apply the provisions of the Act coming before them. 
The desirability of separately identifying Aboriginals in criminal justice statistics has been raised by the AttorneyGeneral with State Attorneys-General. The matter is being kept under review. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to Public Service Regulation 11 relating to the recording of attendance by officers and employees. 
Where an officer or an employee seeks and is granted permission to work under a flexible working hours system, the standard flexible hours attendance record form used in the department should be maintained by the officer or employee. 
The Public Service Board has advised that it is the responsibility of individual departmental managements to ensure that the operation of flexible working hours does not impair efficiency and standards of service. 
It is a prior condition for the approval of flexible working hours schemes that operational efficiency is maintained. Once introduced, schemes require continued careful attention by departmental managements. 
I might add that the Public Service Board is currently undertaking a detailed review of departmental practices associated with the administration of flextime. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (3) See my answers to questions without notice in the Senate from  Senator Missen  on 10 April and IS November 1978  (Hansard,  pages 103 1 and 20 12). 
In a letter dated 21 September 1977 to the SecretaryGeneral of the Law Council of Australia, who forwarded it to me for my information, the Queensland Law Society indicated that it was the view of the Council of the Society- 
that it was desirable to request the States to refer constitutional power to the Commonwealth to deal with those matters presently outside of the ambit of the Family Law Act; and 
that it was not desirable for the control of Family Courts to pass from the Commonwealth to the States. 
Mining Applications in the Northern Territory  (Question No. 2138) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the following applications for rnining interests involving vacant Crown land in the Northem Territory were granted between 1 July and 30 September 1978: 242 mining leases; 1 mineral claim; 17 exploration licences. 
The Northern Land Council was informed by the Chief Minister in a letter dated 24 August 1978 that the freeze had been lifted. 
No. The issue of an exploration licence or rnining interest has no effect on the lodgement of land claims as, under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, the issue of such a licence or interest does not constitute an alienation of the land. 
I have not had such notification from Land Councils. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) It is the responsibility of permanent heads and supervisors at all levels of the Service to see that while on duty staff attend properly and conscientiously to the tasks they are employed to perform. The Public Service Act and Regulations set out and reinforce these responsibilities. I would expect that, where staff, for whatever reason, become less than diligent in attending to their duties, supervisors and managers in the Service would take appropriate action to correct the situation. As part of its detailed review of flextime and its spot checks in various departments, the Public Service Board is giving attention to the management aspects to see that abuses of the system do not occur. 
I am advised by the Public Service Board that the possible use of mechanical devices for recording attendance is among the matters to be considered in the course of the Board's current detailed review of departmental practices associated with administration of flextime. The Board will be reporting on the outcome of that review. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 contains the following definition: traditional Aboriginal owners', in relation to land, means a local descent group of Aboriginals who- 
common spiritual affiliations to a site on the land, being affiliations that place the group under a primary spiritual responsibility for that site and for the land; and 
are entitled by Aboriginal tradition to forage as of right over that land. 
Under the Land Rights Act, a Land Council is required, in carrying out its functions in relation to a particular area of land, to have regard to the interests of, and to consult with,  inter aiia,  the traditional Aboriginal owners (if any) of the land, and in particular not to take any action unless the Land Council is satisfied that the traditional owners of the land understand the nature and purpose of the proposed action and as a group consent to it (see section 23(3)). 
Specific provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act provides that a Land Council shall not: 
give a direction for the grant, transfer or surrender of an estate or interest in land, 
give consent to the grant of a rnining interest, or 
give consent to the construction of a road, unless it is satisfied,  inter alia,  that the traditional owners (if any) of the land concerned understand the nature and purpose of the proposed action and consent to it (see Sections 19 (5), 48 (a) and 68 (2)). In addition, Land Councils are required to pay to the traditional owners concerned amounts equal to any payments in the nature of rents received in respect of particular areas of land (not including amounts received by Land Councils from Consolidated Revenue Fund equivalent to royalties received by the Crown in respect of rnining on Aboriginal land ). 
There is no definition of, or other reference to, a 'custodian' in the Aboriginal Land Rights Act The term has sometimes been used in various ways referring both to the traditional Aboriginal owners of sites and to other persons who have some traditional responsibilities in relation to sites. 
(a) and (b) The Second Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry indicated that evidence presented to the Inquiry showed that the Ranger rnining area and the Jabiluka mine sites were located within the boundary of the local descent group identified as the Mirarr Gundjeibmi and 24 persons were identified as members of this group. Their names are listed at page 28 1 of the Report 
I am informed by the Northern Land Council that four principal adult members of the local descent group in whose area the Nabarlek mine site lies have been identified for the purposes of consultation of rnining agreements. I do not have details of the total number of persons, including children, who are members of this group, but I am seeking the information and will inform the honourable member when I have it. 
I am advised that no traditional owners live in the Ranger or Pancontinental mining areas, and that approximately 14 traditional owners are living in the Nabarlek area. 
No share of royalties is payable to the traditional owners. The Aboriginal Land Rights Act requires, however, that the equivalent of 30 per cent of royalties be paid to Aboriginal Councils and to any incorporated Aboriginal communities or groups living in the area affected by the particular rnining operations (see Section 35 (2)). As indicated in the Second Report of the RUEI, there are some 800 Aboriginals resident in the Alligator Rivers Region, some 600 of whom live at or near Oenpelli 
, (7) and (8) It will be for the groups and communities concerned, in consultation with the Northern Land Council, to work out arrangements for handling any share of royalty income that may become payable in this way. Similarly, the use of the income payable to Councils, groups and communities is a matter for decision by the people concerned and no restrictions are imposed by the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. The Act does prescribe that 40 per cent of royalties are to be applied by Land Councils to meet their administrative costs (with any surplus being available for distribution to Aboriginal communities in their areas), and 30 per cent is available in the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account to be applied as the Minister directs for the benefit of Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory as a whole and to meet the expenses of administering the Fund itself. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Northern Land Council provided the Government with a first draft of the agreement on 13 October 1977. Detailed negotiations commenced on 8 May 1 978. 
8-11 May 1978-Darwin; 16-17 May 1978-Darwin; 12-16 June 1978-Darwin; 3-5 July 1978-Brisbane; 31 July-4 August 1978-Darwin; 10-11 August 1978- Canberra; 24-25 August 1978-Darwin. 
(i) At each of the above rounds of negotiations  Mr B.  O "Donovan participated for the Commonwealth. Observers for the Commonwealth were as follows: 8-1 1 May-Mr I. Messner,  Mr W.  Gray,  Dr J.  Brooks,  Mr C.  Hill,  Mr H.  Jacka,  Mr M.  Farrell,  Mr F.  Dwyer,  Mr K.  Thompson,  Mr R.  Fry,  Mr T.  Richmond,  Mr R.  de Ferranti. 16-17 May- Prof. D. Ovington. 12-16 June-Mr I. Messner,  Mr W.  Gray,  Dr J.  Brooks,  Mr H.  Jacka,  Mr J.  Tysoe,  Mr F.  Dwyer,  Mr R.  de Ferranti, Prof. D. Ovington,  Mr T.  Richmond,  Mr V.  Kane,  Mr F.  Gibbons,  Mr J.  Carroll,  Mr W.  R. Watson. 3-5 July-Mr I. Messner,  Mr W.  Gray,  Dr J.  Brooks,  Mr H.  Jacka,  Mr J.  Tysoe,  Mr F.  Dwyer,  Mr V.  Kane,  Mr T.  Richmond,  Mr J.  Carroll,  Mr R.  Fry,  Mr R.  de Ferranti. 31 July-4 August-Mr I. Messner,  Mr W.  Gray,  Dr J.  Brooks,  Mr H.  Jacka,  Mr F.  Dwyer,  Mr V.  Kane,  Mr R.  Fry, Prof. D. Ovington,  Mr J.  Carroll. 10-1 1 August-Mr I. Messner,  Mr W.  Gray,  Dr. J.  Brooks,  Mr H.  Jacka,  Mr F.  Dwyer,  Mr V.  Kane,  Mr J.  Carroll,  Mr F.  Gibbons. 25-25 August-Mr I. Messner,  Mr W.  Gray,  Dr J.  Brooks,  Mr H.  Jacka,  Mr F.  Dwyer,  Mr A.  Harris. 
The Northern Land Council had no observers at the negotiations. On 24 and 25 August it was represented by the following: 

 Mr S. Zorn,  Mr G.  Yunupingu,  Mr G.  Blitner,  Mr A.  Bishaw,  Mr S.  McGill,  Mr J.  Cotton,  Mr R.  Fordimail,  Mr L.  Finlay,  Mr L.  Joshua,  Mr R.  Marika,  Mr H.  Wilson. 
I do not have details of the people who represented the NLC at the earlier rounds of negotiations but the following persons attended all or some of the earlier rounds: 

 Mr S. Zorn,  Mr G.  Yunupingu,  Mr G.  Blitner,  Mr A.  Bishaw,  Mr S.  McGill,  Mr J.  Mowandjil,  Mr D.  Mulwagu,  Mr T.  Gangale,  Mr M.  Alderson,  Mr J.  Garadbul,  Mr D.  Arriu,  Mr P.  Parmbuk,  Mr T.  Nandjuk. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In relation to Yarrabah see my answer to Question No. 2455. The Mossman Gorge community has submitted a petition which  inter alia  requests me to make a declaration under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Act 1978. The request for declaration is receiving consideration. 
No.  Senator Keeffe  has sent me a copy of a letter of 29 August from the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs,  Mr Charles  Porter, who provided the following information on his Departmental policies in relation to the Gorge Reserve: 
The Gorge Reserve was established in the first instance as a transitional situation for Aborigines wishing to eventually settle in either Mossman or the Cairns and Hinterland areas. Over a period, families who have displayed a wish and ability to cope with suburban responsibilities, have been provided with dwellings, as far as possible, in areas of their choice. 
It is not the intention of my Department to expend vast sums of money on a re-housing program at the Gorge Reserve in view of the more advantageous alternatives available in the areas mentioned above. My Department will, however, maintain the Gorge Reserve to a reasonable standard with a view to phasing it out consistent with a respect for the wishes of those who elect to continue to occupy the premises they now have. ' 
There are no proposals before the Commonwealth Government at the present time to establish land councils in Queensland and Western Australia. 
East Timor: 'D' Notice  (Question No. 2690) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have not issued any authorisations for Departmental or personal staff to travel on Concorde aircraft between US and UK. 
I am not aware of the present cost per journey. 
(a) None, (b) None, (c) None. 
None. 
-On 26 October 1978, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  asked me the following question, without notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the funds for legal aid in Victoria are no longer available for any cases at all and that there is a backlog of some 2,400 cases awaiting assistance? Is the Minister also aware that there will be no legal aid for criminal representation in Victoria? In view of the parlous situation in which the people of Victoria find themselves, what does the Government propose to do about the matter? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw the attention of the honourable member to my statement in the House on 26 October 1978  (Hansard,  page 2413) concerning the steps that had been taken by the Attorney-General to eliminate the backlog of legal aid cases which had been approved by the Australian Legal Aid Office in Victoria and in the other States as of 25 October 1978, but which had not been able to be committed to the legal profession for attention. 
I am informed by the Attorney-General that the November 1978 commitment allocation of $205,000 made to the Australian Legal Aid Office in Victoria will be sufficient to meet all applications for legal aid approved by the Office during that month. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
From the beginning of 1979 my Department will provide the Parliamentary Library at fortnightly intervals with short summaries of the more important judgments of the High Court and also of the Federal Court of Australia, the Territory Supreme Courts and the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It is proposed that copies of the summaries will be available on request to members of the Parliament With this assistance members will be able to identify the judgments in which they are interested and to study particular judgments if they so wish; five copies of all judgments of the High Court are held in the Library. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See the reply given by the Minister for Productivity to Question 1794 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  23 November 1 978, page 335 1 ). 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Question number 1677 has now been answered. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Similar questions have been asked in respect of each Department The Attorney-General has informed me that his Department has no computers and has asked me to refer the honourable member to the replies of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Similar questions have been asked in respect of each Department The Attorney-General has informed me that his Department has no computers and has asked me to refer the honourable member to the replies of the Prime Minister and of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Question number 207 1 has now been answered. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I am informed that the  Chairman  of Ocean Resources NL and a solicitor spoke to the Council in August 1978 and that the Rammanginning Council declined to sign any agreement without consultation with the traditional owners of the area concerned. 
No. 
I am informed that the French Atomic Energy Commission is not a party to the venture. Any proposal for direct investment in Australia by a foreign government or its agencies would be examinable under the Government's foreign investment policy. 
Australia/United States of America Air Transport Agreement  (Question No. 2890) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Yes. (b) Yes. (c) Yes 
The condition of the houses does not necessarily reflect inadequate care on the part of the tenants, but rather inadequate maintenance by the State Government prior to the transfer of the dwellings to the Lands Trust However, my Department's State Grant program includes funds for the New South Wales Health Commission and the Department of Youth and Community Services to employ 2 Aboriginal health workers and 1 Aboriginal caseworker at Walgett, to provide counselling and guidance on domestic management. 
It was a condition of my Department's funding for upgrading the houses that the Aboriginal Lands Trust make them available for sale to their tenants. The tenants may seek loans from private sources or the Aboriginal Loans Commission to purchase the houses. 
The Aboriginal Lands Trust operates a rental rebate system based on my Department's guidelines of rents not exceeding an economic level or fifteen percent of household income, whichever is less. 
The wishes of Aboriginal people concerned are a prime consideration in the development of housing projects. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Section 23 (3) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act provides that the Northern Land Council shall not take any action in respect of Aboriginal land unless it is satisfied that: 
the traditional Aboriginal owners (if any) of that land understand the nature and purpose of the proposed action and, as a group, consent to it; and 
any Aboriginal community or group that may be affected by the proposed action nas Deen consulted and has had adequate opportunity to express its view to the Land Council. 
I am advised by the Northern Land Council that the following documents were sent to all communities on 4 October 1978: 
A general explanation of the Jabiru and Nabarlek agreements, including comments on associated documents and relevant legislation; 
The agreement with the Commonwealth (re Jabiru) under Section 44 (2) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976-1978; 
The Commonwealth's authority under Section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act; 
The National Park agreement with the Commonwealth; 
The National Park Conveyancing document; 
Relevant parts of the proposed National Park Plan; 
The agreement between the Northern Land Council and Queensland Mines Limited under Section 43 (2) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1 976-1 978 together with a general explanation of the same. 
Each community was asked to decide for itself: 
whether the explanation etc. should be translated from English to language; 
how it should conduct any meeting thought necessary to consider the matter. 
I am also advised by the Northern Land Council that a second and simpler explanation of the Ranger agreement was sent to all communities on 20 October 1978. On the same date the Northern Land Council advised all communities that the expenses of translation by community linguists would be met by the Council should any community wish it to be translated into language. A synopsis of the Ranger agreement prepated by  Dr Zorn  was also sent out on that day. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In the Kimberley Region of Western Australia my Department supports the following programs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Selection of persons to fill positions on the staff of the National Aboriginal Conference is entirely a matter for the Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference. In a statement on 18 October 1978  (Hansard  pages 2057, 2058) I indicated that the information concerning  Mr David  Anderson's availability was provided by the National Aboriginal Conference members on the selection sub-committee. Particular information concerning the considerations of the interviewing sub-committee is confidential to the National Aboriginal Conference and an approach will be made to the Executive to ascertain to what extent they are prepared to release the information sought. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In October 1978 the Family Court of Australia in Melbourne heard 954 applications for dissolution of marriage, and made final orders in 96 1 applications for ancillary relief including 86 defended applications. 
As at 3 1 October 1978, the following defended matters were awaiting hearing: 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There is no evidence that suggests that the requirement for a minimum contribution of $20 in all cases has had a significant effect on the readiness of people to approach the Australian Legal Aid Office for assistance. The rninimum contribution is not imposed where it is demonstrated that payment of the contribution would impose a real financial hardship. 
Yes. 
and (4) The definition attributed to a spokesman of the Australian Legal Aid Office in New South Wales in the Sydney  Sun  of 20 November 1978 is an illustration of a person who would have no difficulty in demonstrating real financial hardship. It is the policy of the Australian Legal Aid Office to consider each case on its own merits and to deal with each case sympathetically. 
The Australian Legal Aid Office will not require additional staff to assist people in matters of Family Law as this assistance will be part of its general problem service of legal advice that has been given to all persons with an element of financial need since the inception of the Office in 1973. The Attorney-General has asked his Department to let him know urgently whether any increase in staff for the Family Court is necessary so that the staff of the Court can advise and assist people in matters of Family Law. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) At present, 10 officers. 
7 officers. 
As indicated in paragraph 1.60 of the Commission's report, legal work arising under the Trade Practices Act is performed in the Trade Practices Sub-office of the Crown Solicitor and also in the offices of the various Deputy Crown Solicitors. The staff of the sub-office has been working under considerable pressure. This was particularly so during a recent period of about 2 months when the officer-in-charge of the Sub-office was detached for other duties. Two officers ( 1 legally qualified) are in the course of being recruited to fill existing vacancies. At present, the staff of the Sub-office is coping with its work. The long-term staffing requirements of the Sub-office are being assessed as part of a review of the Crown Solicitor's Division of the Attorney-General's Department 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act 1960 provides that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is the only Government body that the AttorneyGeneral may authorise to intercept telephone calls and enumerates the circumstances in which interception of telephone calls can be authorised. Section 6 of that Act empowers the Attorney-General, at the request of the Director-General of Security, to authorise the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to intercept calls: over a telephone service used, or reasonably suspected of being used, in activities prejudicial to the security of the Commonwealth. if the interception is likely to assist the Organisation in its function of obtaining intelligence relevant to the security of the Commonwealth. 
In an emergency the Director-General can issue a warrant for the same purposes but the warrant can only remain in force for 48 hours at most. 
In accordance with the general practice of successive Governments I do not propose to provide information concerning the operations of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Public Service Board has advised me that the monetary and percentage increases that have occurred in the pay rates of Second Division levels in the Australian Public Service and in selected Metal Trades Award classifications over the period 30 June 1970 to 30 June 1978 are as set out in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is provided in the following table. There have been considerable changes to the functions of all the departments over the period concerned. For this reason the table gives separate figures for former departments with functions most closely related to those of the departments listed in the question. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have not received any applications for legal or financial assistance under section 170 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 from farmers in Queensland in respect of proceedings under section 50 of that Act If an application is received by me it will be considered when all the necessary information is before me. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In August 1 977 the question whether the Crown Solicitor should be requested pursuant to section 55 (E) of the Judiciary Act 1903 to act for consumers who considered that they had suffered loss or damage by reason of a breach or breaches of the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act 1974 was raised with my predecessor. The question was raised in relation to the case of Wise v. CLM (Holdings) Pty Ltd and others, a case that concerned an auction sale of antiques and objet d'art held at Toowoomba in 1975 and the contents of an advertising brochure mailed to persons thought to be interested in the sale. 
The matter was considered at the request of the  Chairman  of the Trade Practices Commission. No request was made by any purchaser of the items sold at the auction that the Crown Solicitor should act on his behalf. 
The view was taken that, as any proceedings to recover the loss or damage suffered by a purchaser would be proceedings by a private individual asserting a private right to recover damages, it would not be appropriate for the Crown 
Solicitor to act as solicitor for the individual or individuals concerned. 
A total of 124 requests for legal or financial assistance in bringing proceedings before the court, under the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act, were received by the Attorney-General in 1977-78. 
3 ) Of the requests so received- 
52 were granted in whole; and 
2 were granted in part 
Ten requests for legal or financial assistance were still to be determined. One request was withdrawn. 
-The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2 ) The report of the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission is, I am informed, not yet generally available. My Department has, however, made arrangements for a copy of the report to be obtained as soon as possible. A study can then be made of the State's approach and an assessment of the Government 's role facilitated. 
I am advised that two instances of computer-related crime have been investigated by the Commonwealth Police Force. Both cases involved the insertion of false particulars into a computer program. In one case unemployment benefit cheques, amounting to $4,794.60, were paid to four persons who were not entitled to them. In the other case a series of cheques, amounting to approximately $130,000, in false names were paid out of the Special Re-adjustment Scheme. In both cases the offenders were convicted and sentenced. 
Criminal law in Australia is primarily the responsibility of the State Governments, but the Commonwealth  Government  has long been concerned in the national aspects of the subject and has contributed substantially to a number of major initiatives. One such measure was the establishment of the Australian Institute of Criminology, which facilitates the co-operation and the exchange of information between the Commonwealth and the States and provides machinery whereby problems and trends in the criminal law, including those related to computer crime, can be studied and discussed. In addition, my Department keeps an overview of developments concerning crime. I am also informed the Commonwealth Police Force has for some time been conducting regular courses on commercial crime. Officers of State and Territory Forces participate in those courses. Further officers of the Auditor-General's Department receive training with respect to modern concepts of computer control. It is, I understand, proposed to extend that training to internal auditors in relevant Departments. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. Each of the proposals to which the honourable member refers has been brought to my attention by the Association of Civil Marriage Celebrants of Australia. 
1 have asked my Department to conduct a comprehensive review of the administration of the civil marriage celebrants program. Each of the matters raised will be examined in the course of that review. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no such plans before the Government. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is for Permanent Heads of Departments, as part of their responsibilities for the efficient management of their departments, to ensure that all staff are aware of the need to use telephones effectively and economically in the course of their duties. 
In 1970 a model set of administrative instructions on the use of telephones was issued for the guidance of Permanent Heads. The general practice is that departmental internal directories contain instructions on telephone use for observance by all staff. 
Action has also been taken to ensure strict control of the use of STD calls, including the barring of STD access to the extent consistent with departmental efficiency, where practical and economical. 
I am advised by the Public Service Board that while there are no specific guidelines relating to the logging of telephone calls by public servants in the course of their public duties, most departments have their switchboard telephonists log all trunk calls which they connect for staff, both via STD and those booked through the Telecom Truck Line operator. 
The latter calls are also listed on departmental telephone accounts. There is no requirement to keep records of local calls beyond that appropriate to the relevant action file. 
The telephone system is a major aid to efficiency in public service administration as it enables officers and others to communicate effectively. Officers are encouraged to use the telephone where it helps in the speedy and more effective transaction of official business. To place too stringent controls on its use would therefore be likely to be counterproductive. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I would be most concerned if there were situations of the sort suggested. But I am not aware of any such complaints and the Public Service Board advises me that no such complaints have been received by it It is the responsibility of departmental managers to ensure that operational effectiveness is maintained including in areas where flexible working hours arrangements have been introduced. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The details requested by the honourable member are contained in the following tables supplied by the Public Service Board. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Foreign Tribunals Evidence Act empowers, inter alia, a State or Territory Supreme Court to order the examination of a witness in respect of proceedings before a court or tribunal in a foreign country. It is thus an enabling measure. Insofar as the jurisdiction of State Supreme Courts is concerned, the question whether the Act should continue to apply in a State is a matter for that State. Insofar as the Australian Capital Territory is concerned, the procedure for exercising the authority conferred by that Act on the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court is set out in Order 39 Rule 38 of the Rules of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. I am not aware of any difficulties having arisen from the operation of the Act in the Territory and consequently of any need to consider whether it should continue to apply in the Territory. The question whether the Act needs to be altered or repealed having regard to the Hague Convention on the Taking of Evidence Abroad in Civil or Commercial Matters 1968 has not arisen since Australia is not a party to the Convention. 
, (4) and (5) Answers to these questions would, in part, involve the provision of a legal opinion. As to the effect of the Colonial Laws Validity Act 1865 on State Parliaments and their competence to amend or repeal Imperial Acts, the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General has under consideration ways and means of enabling States to exercise legislative powers inconsistent with Imperial Acts notwithstanding the provisions of the Colonial Laws Validity Act. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Aboriginal Land Fund Act 1974 I present the annual report of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. This report was distributed to honourable members during the adjournment. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd for the year ended 30 June 1978. This report also was distributed to honourable members during the adjournment. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act 1976 I present the report of the Aboriginal Loans Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. This report was distributed to honourable members during the adjournment. 
It is disappointing to have started this parliamentary session with the kind of speech that we have heard from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr 
Young). There was nothing constructive at all in what he said. He made disparaging comments about individuals and did not offer any concrete suggestions as to how the Government of Australia should cope with the legacy left to it by the Whitlam Government. He said nothing constructive to reinforce the improvement in the employment outlook which has just started to emerge. Even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is prepared to acknowledge that improvement. Instead of offering constructive help honourable members had to listen to hypocritical comments from a member of a team which will just not face up to reality. It has not faced up to reality in Opposition and it did not face up to reality when it was in government. Its refusal to face the realities is understandable. The realities are that the actions of members opposite, when in government, produced a legacy of employment decline and consequential increases in unemployment the like of which this country had not seen previously in the post- War period. 
Let me just quote a few figures for the honourable member for Port Adelaide. He may not have been in the Parliament at the time but he was helping to bring the Labor Government into being. In June 1974, registered unemployment stood at less than 80,000. Twelve months later, registered unemployment had reached a quarter of a million. Let me narrow this period to levels of registered unemployed. In August 1974, the level of registered unemployed was 107,000; in September it was 121,000; in October it was 150,000; in November it was 191,000; in December it was 267,000; and in January 1975 it was 312,000. There was a rise of 200,000 in the number of unemployed between June 1974 and January 1975. Let me remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide what was being said within the councils of the Labor Government at the time. I draw my remarks from the transcript of proceedings in the Sankey case. 
These remarks were given in public evidence. A witness revealed in court that the then Attorney-General justified the Khemlani loan by saying: 
My solution goes to the reality and truth of what we are doing, basically the problem is that we are facing a crisis. 
The witness giving evidence said: 
. unemployment he thought was likely to be 400,000 to half a million within a few months. 
He then said that in his view a temporary purpose was to avert the crisis and the disaster that the Labor Attorney-General of the day thought on indications at that time would have arrived by 
April-May 1975. What did the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  say? According to the evidence, his first reaction was that the then AttorneyGeneral's concern about unemployment was a little high flown. The then Prime Minister thought that the unemployment figure might reach something like 350,000, but not half a million. Did we in Australia either in this House or outside it ever hear the Prime Minister of the day or the Labor Treasurer of the day tell the people about the disaster that was to befall Australia under a Labor government and that the Attorney-General believed that half a million Australians would be unemployed? Another 200,000 people became unemployed between June 1974 and January 1975. Who created unemployment in this country? The answer to that question must be sheeted home to the Labor Government of the day. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I ask honourable members on my left to refrain from interjecting. The honourable member for Port Adelaide was heard in silence and the Minister has an equal entitlement. 
-Let me just take the matter a little further,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because this matter of public importance refers to the creation of unemployment. I think the statistics to which I have referred and the evidence given in the Sankey case adequately demonstrate that unemployment was created by the Whitlam Government. The reasons for this rapid deterioration in unemployment are well known. They are the excesses of the Whitlam Government's economic policy, excessive government expenditure by the Labor Government which in one year increased by 46 per cent and pace setting in the wages area. These factors contributed substantially to costpush inflation and acted as a direct disincentive to employment. We know that as a result of the Labor Government policies of the day that employers shed labour like peas out of a pod. This Government which has been in office since the end of 1975 believes that the only way to correct the severe disruptions to the Australian economy which occurred as a result of those events in 1973-74 is by way of a prudent, non-inflationary managed recovery. A too rapid increase in demand would only lead to short term employment gains since the resulting inflation would soon touch off a new recession and lead to increased rather than decreased unemployment. 
The honourable gentleman referred to the United States of America. Let me point out to him the current lesson from what America has done in the employment and inflation field because it is interesting to note that the United States present Administration initially started on a strategy which saw the growth of employment as a linchpin to recovery. Certainly the Administration obtained record employment growth but it found that it could not sustain that strategy without risking renewed inflation. Renewed inflation has come about in the United States and it is what the Administration is battling with at present. We are still suffering the hangover of the events of 1973-74 when tariffs were indiscriminately cut across the board by 25 per cent. Government expenditure got out of control. You will remember that the then Treasurer,  Dr Cairns,  got the printing presses to work. Profits were squeezed by the introduction of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Wages exploded and Australia suffered the repercussions of deteriorating world trade and international inflation as a result of the huge oil price increase. The result for the labour market has been negative employment growth rates, a mammoth loss of jobs in manufacturing and, to a lesser extent, in building and construction. Between November 1974 and November 1978 there were declines in employment in manufacturing of 134,000, a decrease of 1 1 per cent. In construction there was a decline of 5 1 ,000, a decrease of 1 3 per cent. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide will remember what happened in the textile and clothing industries of the day. The Government's economic strategy is directed to correcting the 1973-74 disruptions and to restoring sustained economic and employment growth. If there is one thing the Government recognises that the Opposition always fails to recognise it is that you must get employment growth in the private sector. It is what the Government is aiming to do and is achieving under its policies. Unfortunately there are no shortcuts to employment recovery, as the United States has recently discovered. The shortcuts which are advocated today by the Opposition are shortcuts back to the chaos of 1973-74. There are no realistic alternatives to pursuing steadily and determinedly the reestablishment of the fundamental pre-conditions of economic growth. If we are to restore healthy employment growth we must beat back inflation. I do not think even the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  would deny that. We must restore profitability of new investments, and I do not think even the honourable member would deny that. We must keep Government expenditure and the money supply under firm control. Again, I do not believe even he would deny that. We must increase business and consumer confidence, improve our balance of trade and maintain firm and predictable management of the economy. In that way and that way alone will we improve capacity utilisation, increase investment and see firm and strong growth in employment opportunities. The Government's economic strategy is showing ever increasing signs that it is correcting the past mistakes that I have mentioned. There has been a cost in terms of the loss of more rapid employment recovery. There has been a human cost in terms of the people who are presently unemployed, but I lay that cost very clearly and very deliberately at the feet of the Whitiam Labor years- a cost for the past errors in economic management. 
We all know that to heal a wound without some hurt and some loss of blood is impossible. There is the tempting path of increasing activity levels through increased Government spending, but on closer examination that can be seen to be an irresponsible way which no Government concerned for the medium and the long term welfare of the community would follow. There would be short term gains but these would be only short term. There would be a worsening of our situation in the labour market in the medium term. It is true that unemployment has increased since 1975. The figures show it. Nobody can deny it. Clearly this situation has its origins in the mismanagement of 1974. It is the extent of this mismanagement and the extreme inflationary pressures which were established by the previous Labor Government which have taken time to rectify. The most difficult part of the task is behind us. In the last three years the decline in the economy was first arrested and then the conditions for recovery established. There are now a number of firm indications that the recovery is under way. 
I do not think the honourable gentleman who proposed this matter of public importance would disagree with his leader that the economy is recovering. Would you? I do not think you would. Farm income is well up flowing from excellent seasonal conditions throughout Australia and generally favourable overseas markets; it could be 80 per cent higher this financial year than it was last financial year. The benefits will have a positive impact on the economy during the months ahead and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has estimated that farm income could contribute nearly two per cent to gross national product in 1978-79. The ANZ Bank's index of factory production has also grown in the last quarter to November. Manufacturing industry employment in November has grown by 4,700 persons, the largest increase since December 1973. Civilian employment has risen in seasonally adjusted terms in each of the five months to November 1978. It is also heartening to see that a major part of the growth came from private employment, 14,900 jobs in the three months to the end of November compared with 9,200 jobs in the public sector. Again, if there is one thing which the Opposition needs to learnwhich we in Government acknowledge- it is that employment growth must come from the private sector. We have this clear sign that civilian employment is rising, and in such a significant area as manufacturing industry for the first time since December 1973. 
I could also mention other encouraging indicators such as a seasonally adjusted increase in retail sales of 4.4 per cent in December. New dwelling construction has also been buoyant over the last few months with approvals growing by 10.8 per cent during the December quarter compared with the September quarter. I am also encouraged by the considerably more optimistic view being taken by businessmen of economic prospects for 1979. From my conversations with businessmen I find a much more optimistic note throughout the business sector. Indeed, the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey of investment intentions suggests that investments by business could be almost a third larger in the December quarter 1978 when compared with the previous year. There are also signs within the Commonwealth Employment Service vacancy figures that there has been a change in trend. The January figures indicate a more favourable trend on the vacancy side. The increase in January 1 979 is the largest increase in January of recent years; the stock of unfilled vacancies was marginally higher than in January 1978 whereas in the three preceding years there had been substantial falls each January. Similarly, the trend for new vacancies notified to the CES shows a more heartening picture. In January 1979 the total was significantly above the level of January 1978 and was the highest for any January since 1974. 
These are all signs of economic growth and of growth of production. They are all signs of an improvement in the labour market. In other words, that constantly depressing trend that we saw throughout the Labor years, continuing after this Government came to office, has all the appearance of having been arrested and turning in the direction to which the Government's economic strategy was aiming. This does not mean that unemployment will be dealt with overnight. It means that our long hard haul will continue through 1979. It means that this year is a critical year and it means also that unions must act with the kind of restraint and responsibility which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has asked for. Employers must take the opportunity which 1979 will give them. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Generally speaking, there is no law that entitles a person to be informed what records are held by a department on him or her or the purpose for which such records are kept, or which entitles a person to any right of access to or amendment of those records. 
The question of access to personal records, including the question whether and by what means a person should be entitled to have information in those records corrected or brought up to date, is under study by the Australian Law Reform Commission as part of its examination of the question of privacy. Aspects of access to information are, of course, covered by the Freedom of Information legislation now before Parliament. 
In regard to personnel records within the Australian Public Service, the Joint Council is currently examining the conditions under which access should be given. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Industrial Court has held, in a number of cases, that rules of organizations which permit penalties to be imposed on members in relation to certain acts or omissions must describe the acts or omissions in precise terms; and that offences which are described in the rules in vague and uncertain terms contravene section 140 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
It is recognised that there are difficulties inherent in the fact that the term 'improper conduct' is not clearly defined. Some action has already been taken to clarify this situation. 
For example, the Draft Guidelines for Commonwealth Public Servants on Official Conduct, circulated by the Public 
Service Board in March 1978, provide guidelines on appropriate conduct by officials in specified situations. The Guidelines raise, inter alia, the issue of public comment by public servants and refer to General Order 14/M which provides considerable guidance on this matter. 
In addition, the Public Service Amendment Bill 1978, recently passed by the Parliament, aims to tighten the disciplinary provisions of the Public Service Act. The new provisions specify misconduct which can lead to disciplinary action under the Act and, in particular, restrict the definition of 'improper conduct otherwise than as an officer' to conduct that 'affects adversely the performance of his duties or brings the Service into disrepute'. 
Nevertheless, it would be impossible to delineate precisely all conduct which would warrant action under the disciplinary provisions of the Public Service Act. For this reason, the retention of a general provision relating to 'improper conduct ' is considered j justified 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Productivity to Question No. 1794  (Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 335 1). 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question:  (1)and(2)- 
-The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
I am advised that no information is available that might confirm the assertion made in the honourable member's question. A medical practitioner's advice to his or her patients is, of course, a matter of confidence between them. 
It is reasonable that a public servant whose medical condition may be such as to make him eligible for retirement on invalidity grounds should be aware of that possibility. 
The Public Service Board has advised me that it is at present engaged in an appraisal of flextime schemes in operation throughout the service. 
The Board has also advised that the pattern of usage of sick leave in the service was examined and reported upon as part of a Joint Council review of sick leave in 1972; the evidence gathered by the Council did not support the view that there was widespread abuse of the system. Usage of sick leave in the public sector appeared to be slightly lower than in the private sector at comparable periods. There is no evidence available to the Board to suggest that the situation has changed significantly since the survey was undertaken. 
I am informed that the only paid leave available to public servants specifically for compassionate purposes is bereavement leave of up to 3 days which may be granted on the death of a specified family member. Before leave is granted, evidence of relationship to the officer and of the relative's death are required. A Chief Officer may, upon sufficient cause being shown, grant an officer special leave with pay not exceeding 3 days in any 12 months. From time to time circumstances may arise where grant of leave under this provision is appropriate for compassionate purposes. There is no evidence available to the Board to suggest that there is any abuse of leave available for compassionate purposes. 
The retirement of an officer on invalidity grounds is a matter for decision by the Public Service Board or its delegate. Each case is considered on its merits having regard to the recommendation of the Commonwealth Medical Officer, the report of the Chief Officer and any other information pertaining to the officer's fitness for employment. As noted by the Board in its Annual Report for 1978 (pages 6/7), invalidity retirements have increased both in total numbers and as a proportion of all retirements. A recent study conducted by the Board suggests that the increase is related to a number of factors. The Board is presently considering the implications of the findings of this study in conjunction with other relevant bodies. 
In these circumstances, I do not see a need to take the action suggested by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the following information includes statutory authorities staffed under the Public Service Act but excludes the former PostmasterGeneral's Department. 
The statistical records held by the Public Service Board show the ages of recruits but not the numbers who attended school immediately before joining the Service. Table One provides numbers of people 18 years and under appointed to the Australian Public Service in each year for the period 1970-77. 
-The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) See the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2903,  Hansard,  page 3577 (24 November 1 978). 
None. 
None. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information given in my reply to question No. 1610 was provided by the Public Service Board. I therefore requested the Board's comments on this further question also and the Board has advised me that the reply given was and is correct. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the answers provided by the Prime Minister to question No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156) and to question No. 3065. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Freedom of Information Bill 1978 is currently being examined by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. With regard to the undertaking by departments and statutory authorities of preparatory work pending decisions on the final form of the freedom of information legislation, I refer to the comments made by Senate Estimates Committee A in paragraph 4 of its report dated 7 November 1978 in relation to action taken in antici- pation of the passage by the Parliament of proposed legislation. It is not possible to predict the number and type of requests for documents which will be received when the legislation is enacted. The number and complexity of requests will vary from department to department as well as within particular departments and statutory authorities over a period of time. 
Nevertheless, certain work has been undertaken in preparation for fulfilling the obligations that the proposed legislation places on departments and statutory authorities to publish details of their organisation and functions and to publish their manuals and other documents used by their officers in making decisions affecting members of the public. I understand that several departments are preparing their documents for publication as required by the legislation. 
In addition, preparatory work of a general training kind has been undertaken. The Attorney-General's Department in collaboration with the Public Service Board is arranging a number of training activities based on the Freedom of Information and Archives Bills as currently drafted. These activities include Second and Third Division Seminars, management conferences and the preparation of an information handbook. The Board has introduced an administrative law module in its Personnel Management Scheme. Officers of the Attorney- General's Department have also taken part in training programs and seminars conducted by other departments for their own officers. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Data on officers on long term sick leave is not available before 1975. However there has been an increase in the number of officers on long term sick leave in the last three years, from 769 in December 1975 to 1,264 in November 1978. A large proportion of officers on long term sick leave are awaiting invalidity retirement The Public Service Board has indicated that the increase in officers taking long term sick leave is related to the increase in invalidity retirements from the Service. 
There does not appear to have been a sudden and widespread breakdown in the health of public servants. In its 1978 Annual Report the Public Service Board said that the increase in invalidity retirements (and hence the use of long term sick leave prior to retirement) was related to a number of factors. These include the changing age structure of the Service, the number of ex-servicemen approaching retirement, changing community attitudes towards health and arrangements for age and invalidity retirement. There is also today greater community awareness of the importance of early diagnosis of disease. I am informed that this, together with increased sophistication of diagnostic techniques, has resulted in earlier recognition of potentially serious conditions such as psychiatric disorders, heart disease and hypertension. Such conditions can have fatal consequences if allowed to progress untreated. It is generally considered by medical experts that these types of illness may be aggravated by stress, particularly stress in the work situation. Modern treatment of these conditions requires not only therapeutic measures such as appropriate drugs but also reduction or elimination of stress. In some cases the latter can only be achieved by granting long term sick leave. 
(a) I am informed that the Department of Health has no evidence of any collusion between medical practitioners and public servants. 
Medical officers employed by the Australian Public Service do not encourage public servants to abuse sick leave entitlements. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)No 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his question because I know of his personal keen interest in the success of Job Search. From the figures that he has given to the House in his question, undoubtedly Job Search has been successful in helping the young unemployed in particular and in increasing the number of vacancies which the Commonwealth Employment Service has available to it. I can tell the honourable gentleman that what has been done in Tasmania has also been done in other States by the Commonwealth Employment Service. For example, Jobuary is a campaign in which the honourable member for Kingston has played such a notable part. I visited the bus being used in his electorate for this scheme and I visited the headquarters of Job Search in the electorate of Denison. 
In other places in Australia similar kinds of campaigns have been undertaken. In my own state of Western Australia a special youth vacancy drive has been undertaken. In Melbourne, in combination with the Melbourne  Herald  the Commonwealth Employment Service has been conducting the Yes campaign quite successfully. The Rotary Club of Sydney mounted a special campaign of its own called Target 300, aimed at achieving an additional 300 jobs from amongst its own members and when I was in Sydney about a week ago I spoke to the leader of that campaign, and it has undoubtedly been successful. In Brisbane also a similar campaign is going on in conjunction with the media. I want to pay tribute to the community effort that underlies all these campaigns in which employers have come in on side, as has the staff of my own Department and the Commonwealth Employment Service, and which the media have so readily been prepared to back at little or no cost to themselves. I might also say that the unions have also come into these campaigns. It has been a total community effort directed at obtaining increased vacancies, which of course are the lifeblood of the Commonwealth Employment Service. As I have said, the Service has the people. What we need are the vacancies to give people a job. 
If I can unravel some of the more unintelligent parts of the question I will endeavour to give the honourable member an intelligent answer. As to the last part of the question regarding insurance cover for CYSS workers, this is a matter of concern and is being studied at the present time to see whether some kind of blanket insurance might be available for the CYSS officers in the different regions. 
This matter was brought to my attention when I had a discussion with CYSS officers in Perth about a week ago and it is being looked at. 
As to the allegations about discriminatory remarks on cards in the Commonwealth Employment Service offices and lack of training of CES officers, let me immediately direct the attention of the House to a bulletin issued by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association when the honourable gentleman made an earlier attack upon the CES. The Association immediately rejected the criticism which the honourable member made of staff members of the CES, and I support the ACOA in rejecting that criticism. I think that the honourable member has done a great disservice to members of the CES. I have been to each of the capital cities. I have spoken to officers in the regional offices of the CES and have been to youth job centres, and I must say that I am very impressed with the quality of those officers and the way in which they approach their task. The Norgard report on the review of the Commonwealth Employment Service recommended that greater training be undertaken by officers in the CES. That recommendation was actively pursued by my colleague, the former Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, and I am advised that this year the training program will be accelerated. 
As to the alleged discrimination on cards, I point up my criticism of the honourable member's allegations by indicating that there are 3,600 staff in 218 offices of the CES. In 1977-78 the CES registered 1.9 million people and there were 477,385 job placements made as against 670,893 vacancies registered. In its examination of a random sample made at my request to deal with these allegations, the Service has found that only a minute number of cards could be regarded as expressing some discriminatory remarks. So when one appreciates the volume of business done by the CES I think one can judge the validity of the allegations made by the honourable member. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1 975 I present the annual report of the Administrative Review Council for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Criminology Research Act 1971 1 present the annual report of the Australian Institute of Criminology for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Fifth International Trade Law Seminar held in Canberra during June 1978. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the remarks just made by the honourable member for Melbourne (MrInnes). 
Yes. 

 Mr SPEAKERHe may proceed. 
I referred to a statement of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. It was, in fact, an ACOA bulletin issued on 30 January 1979 by Gerard Butler, Industrial Officer of the organisation. It is addressed to all CES members and reads: 
As you would be aware, there has been some criticism of the CES in the Press lately. The criticism has included charges of bias and discrimination towards the unemployed by CES officers. 
ACOA 's Acting Federal Secretary, Stan Imer, released the following media release on Friday, 26 January: 
CES Criticism Rejected 
Charges of bias and prejudice by CES staff made by two ALP parliamentarians were rejected today by the Administrative and Clerical Officers ' Association. 

 Mr Stan Imer, Acting Federal Secretary of ACOA, said today that the examples given to the media yesterday were obviously stolen by a disenchanted former employee and did not fairly illustrate the care and devotion exercised by most CES officers to alleviate unemployment and distress. 
That is all I will quote from what is a more lengthy statement. I believe, therefore, that against the background of the statistics which I gave to the House, concerning the volume of activity in the Commonwealth Employment Service - 
MrSPEAKER-The honourable gentleman is now arguing the issue. 
I close on the note that the statements made by  Mr Imer,  and by me in this House, were well founded. 

 Mr INNES (Melbourne)-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has advised that the circumstances under which certain Third Division officers who are normally eligible for overtime payment may receive instead compensation by way of an allowance additional to salary for overtime worked are where the nature and location of the work make it impracticable for the normal requirements of certification, direction, supervision and control of the overtime to be satisfied. 
Apart from these general circumstances, where Third Division Officers are normally ineligible for payment of overtime (because their salary is above Class 8), quite exceptional circumstances need to exist before an allowance is paid. The overtime required to be worked must be substantial in period and consistent in duration. The main example being referred to in the answer given to the honourable member's earlier question was the basic Ministerial Staff Allowance (presently $4,673 per annum) payable to senior Ministerial staff in recognition of the long and irregular hours of duty involved and the special and total nature of their job commitment. 
The Board has also advised that apart from several senior Ministerial staff whose salaries are within the range of salaries of Second Division officers, no Second Division officers receive compensation for overtime by way of an allowance additional to salary. 
I regret to inform the honourable gentleman that I do not have the figures at my fingertips, but I will ascertain the information from the Attorney-General and let the honourable member have the details. Of course it was up to the royal commission itself whether the Prime Minister would be called as a witness. 
When I announced the Government's decision in principle to introduce a voluntary youth community service scheme, I pointed out that consultation would continue on as wide a spectrum as possible throughout the community with all the organisations that we would expect to sponsor vacancies for voluntary work by the young unemployed, as well as State governments and local government. A special task force under the chairmanship of my Department has been very active since that announcement and particularly over the last month in that consultative process. I expect a report to come to me in about the middle of March. I will then decide whether further consultation is required or whether I can put the matter straight to the Government. That is the stage which the examination of the voluntary scheme has reached. 
I inform the honourable gentleman that the proposal to provide work experience training for 1,000 young people within the Commonwealth Public Service is being examined now by officers of my Department and the Public Service. We see no difficulty in making those thousand vacancies available. I also inform the honourable gentleman that the proposal with respect to the Australian Public Service is no different to what is being done, for example, by the Wran Government in New South Wales. We have made the Special Youth Employment Training Program available to State governments with the very favourable result that the New South Wales Government will be providing vacancies for 1,500 young people to be trained within the New South Wales Public Service from Commonwealth funds. 
I inform the House that the Victorian Government has likewise taken advantage of the Commonwealth's initiative. Only recently I gave approval to the Victorian Premier for 500 training positions to be financed by the Commonwealth in addition to the 1,000 positions that the Victorian Government has already been provided funds for. I can only applaud  Mr Hamer  and  Mr Wran  for taking up the opportunity which the Commonwealth has provided. I regret to inform my colleagues from Tasmania that the Tasmanian Premier,  Mr Lowe,  for some reason unknown to me refuses to take advantage of the Commonwealth's offer in the same way as  Mr Wran  and  Mr Hamer  have done. I implore my Tasmanian colleagues to impress upon  Mr Lowe  the availability of this ready finance from the Commonwealth for the young unemployed of Tasmania 
For the information of honourable members I present the Ord River Irrigation Area Review: 1978- A joint Commonwealth and Western Australian review. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The desirability of reviewing the existing law relating to offences at sea was referred to by the Chief Justice of the High Court,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, in 1974 in the case of The Queen v. Bull reported in Volume 131 of the Commonwealth Law Reports, at page 203. He observed at page 235 that it is inappropriate today that the power of a court in Australia to try extra-territorial offences should be derived from and be limited by Imperial legislation. In 1977 in the subsequent case of Oteri v. The Queen, reported in Volume 51 of the Australian Law Journal Reports, at page 122, the Privy Council drew attention to a feature of the existing law in the following terms: 
It may at first sight seem surprising that despite the passing of the Statute of Westminster, 1931, and the creation of separate Australian citizenship by the British Nationality Act 1948 (Imperial) and the Australian Citizenship Act 1948-1973 (Commonwealth) . . . Parliament in the United Kingdom when it passes a statute which creates a new criminal offence in English law is also legislating for those Australian passengers who cross the Bass Strait by ship from Melbourne to Launceston. 
The present Bill will correct that position, in situations coming within the Commonwealth's constitutional powers. Its purpose is to apply Australian criminal laws in those situations, the laws applied being those of a relevant State or Territory. To avoid misunderstanding, I should add that the extra-territorial application of specific federal criminal laws, such as those relating to customs offences, will continue to be dealt with as now under the specific Commonwealth legislation in question, for example, the Customs Act, and are not embraced by the present proposal. 
The objective of the Bill deserves, and, I believe, will receive, wide support. There is, however, an additional important reason why this legislation should go forward and to which I should draw attention. 
The Bill now before the House represents the first fruits of the consultations and agreements between the Commonwealth and the States initiated by this Government to deal with the situation it faced following upon the decision of the High Court in the Seas and Submerged Lands Case in late 1975, 135 CLR 337. Certain agreements in principle were reached at the Premiers' Conference of 21 October 1977. At the Premiers' Conference on 22 June 1978 a major step forward was taken to implement the principles agreed upon. In particular, it was agreed that the powers of the States should be extended to the territorial sea including the seabed. Other matters dealt with included the establishment of joint Commonwealth-State authorities for offshore mining and fishing in which the Commonwealth has a proper role perhaps not fully recognised under existing arrangements. 
In the Seas and Submerged Lands Case, the complete sovereign power and rights of the Commonwealth Parliament over off-shore areas of Australia, that is from low water mark outwards, was affirmed. The result of that was that the Commonwealth Parliament has the power to over-ride all State legislation in the area. The object of the exercise which we have been engaged in since 1977 has been to endeavour, on the basis of federalism, to restore to the States powers, many of which were thrown in great doubt as a result of the High Court decision. What the States have been seeking is some permanent solution of the problem so that they will not be concerned all the time that- ' 
their own laws will not be effective if they are applying off-shore, and 
probably more importantly, that the Commonwealth will not come in above them and exercise its power to pass laws which would as a result of section 109 of the Constitution over-ride the exercise of State laws. 
Legislation to implement these other decisions is being prepared. The Government believes that it is very important that the Bill now before the House, which represents the first item of the package, should be supported and passed as soon as possible. 
It has been prepared in close consultation with the States and the Northern Territory, in the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and 
State Attorneys-General, as part of a complementary scheme of Commonwealth and State legislation on offences at sea. A model complementary State Bill has also been prepared for introduction into State parliaments. Legislation based on this model Bill has already been passed by the Victorian Parliament. For the purpose of the complementary scheme, the Northern Territory, which of course now has self-government, has been treated as a State and the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory has passed legislation based on the model Bill. 
I turn now to the Bill itself. Very briefly, its effect is to apply the criminal laws of an appropriate State or Territory to offences on or from Australian ships on overseas, interstate and Territory voyages, and in certain carefully circumscribed cases to offences on or from foreign ships beyond the territorial sea. Also, the Commonwealth Bill will apply the criminal laws of the adjacent State or Territory to offences in offshore areas beyond the territorial sea that come under Australian jurisdiction, for example, on off-shore installations. The complementary State Bill deals with offences on intra-State voyages and offences within the territorial sea. 
For these purposes, sub-clause 3(1) of the Commonwealth Bill defines 'criminal laws' so as to include all laws that make provision for or in relation to offences. However, there are important qualifications to this general application of criminal laws. Clause 12 excludes from the criminal laws applied by the Bill laws incapable of applying at sea or laws expressely worded so as not to extend or apply at sea. Nevertheless, this may leave some offences applicable which, it would be readily agreed, should not be so applied. It is proposed therefore by sub-clause 1 8 (2) that the regulation-making power in the Bill should authorise regulations providing that provisions or classes of provissions of the criminal laws in force in a State or Territory are not to apply by virtue of the Bill. A precedent for such an excepting power is contained in sub-section 4(6) of the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act 1970. 
Honourable members will appreciate that, by reason of the requirements of international law, it is necessary, outside the territorial sea in particular, to observe a distinction between Australian ships and ships coming within the jurisdiction of other countries. For this purpose, a definition included in sub-clause 3(1) refers to ships registered in Australia or an external Territory under the Imperial Merchant Shipping Act or under any Commonwealth Act replacing that Act. Paragraph (b) of the definition refers to any other ship that is Australia-based or owned or Territory-based or owned, not being a ship registered in a foreign country. The definition of ' foreign country ' in sub-clause 3(1) therefore refers to any country other than Australia or an external territory. The distinction made in the Bill is, as mentioned, between Australian ships and other ships and so no special reference is needed to ships of other Commonwealth countries. 
A particular provision that may intrigue honourable members is sub-clause 3 (4), which defines when a person ceases to be a survivor for purposes of the application of criminal laws under the Bill under paragraphs 6(1) (b), 7(1) (b) and 8(1) (b). A feature of the Bill is that it expressly covers the situation of shipwreck survivors. Those honourable members who are lawyers may remember the case of Dudley and Stephens 1884 14 QBD 253, the harrowing facts of which related to the killing and eating of a cabin boy by the survivors of a wreck in order to survive. Whilst such cases are thankfully very exceptional, the point is that situations of enormous stress can occur following on a shipwreck and there should be no room for doubt about the applicability of criminal law in such situations. 
Clause 4, which follows in part section 6 of the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act 1970, authorises an arrangement with a State or the Northern Territory for the exercise or performance of a power, duty or function by an authority of the State under the provisions of the criminal laws in force in any State or Territory as applying by virtue of the Bill. This provision, along with clauses 5, 13 and 14, is designed to facilitate to the maximum the implementation of the Bill by the law enforcement authorities of the States and the Northern Territory. 
The main substantive provisions of the Bill are to be found in clauses 6 to 11. Clauses 6 to 8 relate to offences on or from ships, including in particular, Australian ships wherever they might be at the time, even in a foreign port, while clauses 9 to 1 1 deal with offences in the off-shore area and are directed to offences in which ships need not be involved, for example, offences on offshore installations. In view of the current trend in the law of the sea pointing to an increase in offshore jurisdiction both in area and content, particular care has been taken to prepare legislation that will be adequate to meet future developments when they occur. 
I shall deal first with offences on or from ships. Clause 6 applies State or Territorial criminal laws to acts committed by a person on or from an Australian ship in the course of a 'prescribed voyage' and to acts committed on or from Australian ships in foreign ports. 
The criminal laws so applied are those of a State or Territory with which the ship is connected by registration. If the ship is not so registered, other kinds of connection with a State or Territory are to be recognised under sub-clause 6 (2). A 'prescribed voyage' is defined in subclause 6 (3) so as to include- (a) a voyage from a State to a place in a foreign country, in another State, or in a Territory; (b) a voyage from the Northern Territory to a place in a foreign country, in a State, or in another Territory; and (c) any voyage from a Territory other than the Northern Territory or from a foreign country. 
Clauses 7 and 8 deal with foreign ships. It is convenient to refer to clause 8 first. It applies State or Territory criminal laws to acts on or from foreign ships beyond the territorial sea of Australia or an external Territory by an Australian citizen who was not a member of the crew of the ship. The criminal laws applied are those of the State or Territory in which the person was domiciled at the time or he had his last place of residence in Australia or the external Territories. Section 381 of the Navigation Act 1912 already claims jurisdiction in such cases, and the Bill in this regard is therefore following a well-worn path. 
Clause 7 is not limited to Australian citizens and applies in relation to acts committed on the high seas on or from a foreign ship in the course of a voyage to a place in Australia or an external Territory, or which is fishing or is licensed to fish in the Australian fishing zone. As will appear, the jurisdiction is carefully circumscribed and, I should add, is likely to be seldom used. 
Thus, the effect of sub-clause 7 (2) is that only the last leg of a voyage from overseas to Australia is included for purposes of the clausefor example in a voyage Tokyo-Manila-Sydney, only the Manila-Sydney leg would be includedplus any leg of the voyage around Australia, for example, Sydney-Melbourne. While sub-clause 7 (3) has the effect of applying to such acts the criminal laws of the State or Territory which the offender enters or to which he is brought, subclause 7 (4) makes it a defence that the act constituting the offence would not have constituted an offence under the law of the country of which the offender is a national. 
In addition, the consent of the AttorneyGeneral is required by sub-clause 7(5), and under sub-clause 7 (6) this is to be given only if he is satisfied that the government of the foreign country under whose jurisdiction the ship comes- the flag State- has given its consent. However, the requirement of consent does not apply to piratical acts, since all countries have jurisdiction to try piratical acts on any ship. 
The Government regards the carefully confined jurisdiction conferred by clause 7 as reasonable. It views it as a subordinate and seldom needed means of ensuring, as far as practicable, that crimes do not remain unpunished. The ability to extend local criminal laws to offences on foreign ships arriving in Australia follows a precedent set by New Zealand in 1961 and is justified by the need, having regard to the remoteness of Australia from other places, to be able to deal with situations of acute distress that can occur and that do, I might add, occur from time to time. The jurisdiction would only apply, as I have already indicated, if the offender enters or is brought into a State or Territory. 
As I have mentioned, clauses 9, 10 and 1 1 of the Bill constitute a second group of provisions dealing with offences outside the territorial sea in offshore areas that are within Australian jurisdiction or may come within Australian jurisdiction in the future. They cover acts arising out of the exploration or exploitation of the resources of the Australian continental shelf and, looking to the future, arising out of other activities coming under Australian jurisdiction in any 200-mile economic zone that may be proclaimed by Australia. Clause 1 1 enables the application of criminal laws to other acts by Australian citizens or residents in offshore areas outside the territorial sea, for example, within the 200-mile zone. In all cases the criminal laws of the adjacent State or Territory are to be applied. 
Clause 12 has already been mentioned. Clauses 13 to 16 deal with certain procedural and technical matters. Clause 17 provides in effect for a change in venue if the Judge of a Supreme Court of the State or Territory in question is satisfied that other proceedings have been instituted or are proposed, and that it is expedient that the proceedings be stayed. Matters to be taken into account include whether the continuation of the proceedings would impose any special hardship on the accused. 
May I say in conclusion that there is obviously a need to re-order the position on offences at sea as soon as possible, and in that regard for this Parliament to deal with those cases that come under the Commonwealth's constitutional powers. I therefore commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bo wen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Legislation enacted in 1976 to establish the Federal Court of Australia and to restructure the appellate jurisdiction of the High Court left a number of loose ends to be tidied up at a later date. This Bill will make a number of detailed changes to Commonwealth law to complete the scheme contained in the 1976 legislation. The 1976 legislation to which I refer comprised the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 and nine other Acts. These had the following purposes: 
the reorganisation of the federal judiciary by the creation of a new federal court to replace the Federal Court of Bankruptcy and the Australian Industrial Court; 
the relief of the workload on the High Court of both appellate and original jurisdiction; 
a more significant role for the State Supreme Courts in the administration of the federal judicial power; and 
the creation of a federal appellate jurisdiction in significant areas of federal law and the provision of a court of appeal from Territory Supreme Courts. 
The 1976 legislation removed from the High Court the original jurisdiction that it had under Commonwealth law in the areas of greatest workload. In accordance with the policy then set out, most of this original jurisdiction was vested in State supreme courts. Some of it was vested in the Federal Court of Australia. In a few cases, where the jurisdiction consisted of reviewing administrative decisions having little legal content, the review jurisdiction was vested in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
The policy, then as now, is that the Federal Court of Australia will have jurisdiction only in those matters where, for historical or special policy reasons, it is desirable that jurisdiction be exercised by a federal court. This applies to both original and appellate jurisdiction in matters of federal jurisdiction. The State and Territory courts, being courts of general jurisdiction, should be primarily the trial courts, in federal as well as in State matters. The High Court should be free to concentrate on its role as a constitutional and appellate court in matters of general importance. 
The experience since these changes outlined above were made has more than proved their value. The Federal Court of Australia which has, amongst other matters, original jurisdiction in bankruptcy and trade practices matters and also hears appeals from State and Territory courts in matters of special federal concern, has proved to be a forum of great judicial eminance and expertise. The Court has also replaced the High Court as the court of appeal from Territory supreme courts. The purposes of this Bill are: 
to divest the High Court of original juris diction vested in it by statute, other than original jurisdiction as a court of disputed returns under the Commonwealth Electoral Act; 
b ) to confer taxation and industrial property jurisdiction on State and Territory supreme courts in those tax and industrial property matters in which these courts do not now have jurisdiction, and to provide for appeals in these matters to lie to the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia; 
to confer jurisdiction on Territory supreme courts, within appropriate limitations, in matters in which jurisdiction is now vested in State supreme courts, but not Territory supreme courts; and 
to make amendments consequential upon the enactment of the Judiciary Amendment Act 1976 and the Federal Court of Australia Act 1 976. 
In removing the original statutory jurisdiction of the High Court, the Bill does not, of course, purport to limit the jurisdiction conferred directly on the High Court by the Constitution. Thus in some cases where a statute now confers a right to proceed against the Commonwealth in the High Court, repeal of the statutory provision would still leave intact the constitutional jurisdiction of the High Court in matters in which the Commonwealth is suing or being sued. Where the statutory right to proceed against the Commonwealth is moved to State or Territory courts, those courts would have a jurisdiction in those matters concurrent with the jurisdiction vested in the High Court by the Constitution. It may be expected that most litigants will prefer to initiate proceedings in these cases in the appropriate State or Territory court. If such an action is commenced in the High Court, that court is empowered under the Judiciary Act to remit the proceedings to the appropriate State or Territory court. 
I now turn in detail to the provisions of the Jurisdiction of Courts (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill. Part II and Part III of the Bill complete the new arrangements for the exercise of federal jurisdiction in industrial property matters which were initiated by the Patents Amendment Act 1976 and the Trade Marks Amendment Act 1976. The amendments made by this Bill to the Copyright Act 1968 and the Designs Act 1906 provide for the jurisdiction of State and Territory supreme courts under the respective Acts to be exercised by a single judge. An appeal from a decision of a State or Territory court, including a decision in an action for an infringement of copyright or design, is to lie only to the Federal Court of Australia or, by special leave of the High Court, to that court. 
Amendments made by the Bill will remove the original jurisdiction conferred on the High Court under the Copyright Act 1968 and the Designs Act 1906. A reference of question of law by the Copyright Tribunal will now be dealt with by the Federal Court of Australia. The jurisdiction of the High Court under section 28 of the Designs Act to cancel the registration of a design or to grant a compulsory licence for the manufacture of articles to which the design is applied is transferred to State and Territory supreme courts. 
The Bill provides for the amendment of eight taxation Acts, namely the Estate Duty Assessment Act 1914, the Loan (Drought Bonds) Act 1969, Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act 1971, the Sales Tax Assessment Act (No. 1) 1930, the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Act 1970, the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act 1947, the Taxation Administration Act 1953, and the Wool Tax (Administration) Act 1964. Similar amendments are made to the Export Incentive Grants Act 1971. The amendments will bring the provisions for appeals to the courts from decisions of the Commissioner of Taxation or a Board of Review under these Acts into line with the provisions for appeal in the Income Tax Assessment Act enacted in 1973 and 1976, subject to one qualification. 
There will now be a uniform pattern of appeals in taxation legislation. The appeal from the Commissioner or a board of Review, as the case may be, will lie in the first instance to a State or Territory supreme court constituted by a single judge. From that court, an appeal will lie to the Federal Court of Australia, sitting as a full court. Where the taxpayer has chosen to appeal from the Commissioner to a board of review, the appeal from the State supreme court to the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia will lie only by leave. An appeal from the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia to the High Court of Australia will lie only by special leave of the High Court. An appeal may be taken directly from the State or Territory supreme court to the High Court by special leave of the High Court. 
In this regard, one change is made to the existing law regarding appeals under the Income Tax Assessment Act. Because, under the Federal Court of Australia Act, an appeal lies as of right from the Full Court of the Federal Court to the High Court when a sum of $20,000 or more is in issue, many income tax appeals may lie as of right from the Federal Court to the High Court. This was not intended in the 1976 legislation. It had been intended that an appeal would lie to the High Court in income tax matters only by special leave of the High Court. In the legislation as introduced into the Parliament in 1976, this result was achieved because the Federal Court of Australia Bill provided that an appeal might be taken to the High Court from the Federal Court only by special leave of the High Court. That Bill was amended during the course of debate to provide that an appeal would lie as of right from the Federal Court to the High Court in the same circumstances as an appeal would lie as of right from the Full Court of a State supreme court to the High Court under the amendments to the Judiciary Act then introduced. When the change was made to the Federal Court of Australia Bill, it was overlooked that this would have the effect of giving a right of appeal in many income tax cases. This oversight has now been remedied in the present Bill. 
Where the High Court still has, under taxation legislation, original jurisdiction in taxation prosecutions, that jurisdiction is to be removed. The Bill will provide a uniform pattern of jurisdiction in taxation prosecutions, the jurisdiction to be vested in State and Territory courts. Part VIII of th Bill provides for the amendment of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955 so as to remove the jurisdiction conferred by that Act on the High Court. Under the Act, the High Court has conferred on it jurisdiction concurrent with State and Territory courts. 
The Bill makes appropriate provisions preserving existing rights to appeal to the High Court under the taxation legislation and to preserve the jurisdiction of the High Court in respect of proceedings instituted in the High Court at the date on which the relevant provisions of the Bill are brought into operation. Clauses 125 to 128 of the Bill provide for the High Court to remit pending proceedings or proceedings arising out of rights of appeal accrued at the date the Bill comes into operation to a State or Territory supreme court having jurisdiction in that proceeding. It may be recalled that the Judiciary Act was amended in 1976 to give the High Court a general power to remit proceedings brought in the original jurisdiction of the High Court to appropriate State or Territory courts. 
Part X of the Bill makes a number of amendments to the Patents Act consequential upon the amendments made to that Act by the 1976 legislation. Amongst other things, the amendments then made provided for certain decisions of the Commissioner to be reviewed by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It has been found necessary to amend the Act to provide for an extension of the time specified in the Act for doing certain things in cases where the progress of an application for a patent has been delayed by reason of an appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Further, following amendments made last year to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act, the requirement that the Tribunal must be constituted by a presidential member in hearing appeals from the Commissioner of Patents is to be deleted. Similar amendments to the Trade Marks Act are made by the Schedule to the Bill. 
The Schedule to the Bill makes a number of detailed amendments to existing legislation. Some of these amendments are consequent upon the changes made by the 1976 legislation. Others give effect to the policy of removing from the High Court original jurisdiction under Commonwealth statutes. In certain cases, it has been thought appropriate that that jurisdiction should be conferred on the Federal Court of Australia. These cases are the present jurisdiction of the High Court under the Banking Act, the jurisdiction to determine references of questions of law from the Courts-Martial Appeal Tribunal, the jurisdiction to declare unlawful associations under the Crimes Act, certain jurisdiction of the High Court under the Insurance (Deposits) Act, the power to try on a summary basis prosecutions for offences against the Royal Commissions Act and certain jurisdiction under the Treasury Bills Act. 
The schedule also contains provisions conferring jurisdiction on Territory Supreme Courts in cases where State Supreme Courts may now exercise jurisdiction but not Territory Supreme Courts. 
Debate interrupted. 
I resume the observations I was making by saying that this is in line with the policy of giving Territory Supreme Courts, within constitutional limits, a status equal to that of State Supreme Courts. Some amendments to the Schedule of the Bill were made during its passage in another place. A new section  32A  is to be inserted in the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 which will invest the Supreme Court of a State with jurisdiction to hear and determine any application that may be made to a judge of the Federal Court of Australia sitting in chambers. This provision is to apply to matters pending in the General Division of the Federal Court. New section  32A  is designed to overcome difficulties that might arise in those places where a Federal Court judge is not readily available and an urgent application to the Court needs to be made. A number of other drafting amendments are made to the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976. 
The changes that I have described affect a wide range of Commonwealth legislation. They are, however, all concerned with the further improvement in the exercise of federal jurisdiction by the courts. The present changes complete the particular projects that were commenced in 1976. They are in line with the Government's policy to have a co-ordinated structure of State and Federal courts in Australia and to avoid the disadvantages of a dual court system which could easily develop under a federal system and which has caused so many problems in the United States. Although a unified court system would be the ideal I must accept that this is unlikely to be achieved for the time being. The policy of a co-ordinated system is a satisfactory alternative and is, in the view of the Government, a practical one. I hope that the States will seriously consider investing Federal courts with jurisdiction under State laws where that would be convenient in the same way as the Federal 
Government has been prepared to invest State courts with wider federal jurisdiction where that is sensible and convenient. In this way I believe that most of the problems which can arise with State and Federal jurisdictions could be avoided. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion of  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Prime Minister's Press Statement of 1 March 1 978 announcing the institution of the Ethnic Liaison Officer scheme, it was stated that the scheme's overall effectiveness would be the subject of a report from the Public Service Board after the scheme had been in operation for 1 2 months. 
In relation to the remaining pans of the question, the Public Service Board has advised me as follows: 
The evaluation will include consideration of steps taken by departments and major authorities in their role as employers. 
No. 
Not applicable: see (3). 
The assessment will be conducted on the basis of information supplied by departments and major authorities in written reports, meetings and seminars and obtained through meetings with representatives of ethnic organisations. The assessment will focus on activities to: ensure equality of access to employment; identify and resolve employment and communication difficulties; increase supervisors' awareness of the special needs, including needs for English teaching of migrant employees. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question. I did see the report to which he referred and, as a result, I put out a Press statement yesterday to make it quite clear that there is no restriction on the availability of work experience opportunities in State government employment by reason of the changed administrative arrangements for the Special Youth Employment Training program. The arrangements applying to State departments are exactly the same as those applying to private employment. The intent of those arrangements is to provide special opportunity for young people who are disadvantaged in the employment market so that, through the work experience they obtain, they are better able to obtain employment, either with the employer with whom they receive training or with other employers to whom they can transfer their skills. 
The States have made some complaints to me which I feel are unfounded because the true intent of the program is to provide training opportunities. It is not intended to provide States with a pool of people who would otherwise be qualified under the States' ordinary standards to obtain employment with their Public Services. So I ask all the States to take advantage of the money which the Commonwealth is making available to them so that they can provide all the work experience opportunities which the young people need today. 
I have seen reports of the kind to which the honourable gentleman has referred regarding the Shepparton district and also regarding Mildura. I know that the honourable member for Murray is interested in this question concerning Shepparton. I think the question asked of me reflects a concern, certainly on the Government side of the House, that there are jobs available and that there are seeking jobs people who regrettably do not seem to be taking up those opportunities. At the same time as they are not taking up the opportunities they are receiving unemployment benefits, which of course are coming out of the taxpayers' purse. I think that honourable gentlemen on the Government side of the House quite properly are asking why the taxpayer should bear that burden when these jobs are available. 
Having said that, however, I want to assure the House that the Commonwealth Employment Service has been very active in this area. Let me just briefly give some statistics. For example, the current position at Shepparton is that 4,016 vacancies have been notified for this kind of work and that 3,653 of those vacancies have been filled. There are currently 433 vacancies and up to now adverse work tests have been applied to 173 persons, that is, they have been denied unemployment benefit because they have not taken jobs that are available to them. 
I am informed that in the Mildura area the CES has had 5,135 vacancies, of which 2,385 have been filled. About 700 of these have been referred from offices of the CES in other districts of Victoria. The work test is applied to locally unemployed people and that, of course, is perfectly understandable. However, the work test has not been applied to other unemployed people outside the local district. I have expressed concern to my Department about that fact because one of the conditions upon which people are offered this kind of seasonal, casual work is that they are provided with expenses to go to the place of work. Therefore, it is not unreasonable to ask whether persons who refuse the opportunity to take the travel expenses and to travel to the Mildura or Shepparton districts should nevertheless continue to receive unemployment benefit. I think there are many people in Australia at the present time who see able bodied men and women not responding to these kinds of work opportunities. 
by leave- The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Publications in its report recommended, in particular, that greater priority be attached to the reprinting in pamphlet form of Acts, statutory rules and legislation of the Territories, as amendedrecommendation 1 of the report. The Joint Committee raised for consideration whether there was a more practicable method of producing consolidated pamphlet reprints- paragraph 27 of the report- and recommended that bound general reprints- consolidations- be produced more frequently- recommendations 2-6. The Joint Committee's recommendations on reprints- recommendations 1-6- will be met by a new continuously updated pamphlet reprint system which is being introduced by the Attorney-General's Department. 
Under the system, complete sets of reprints in pamphlet form of Acts, statutory rules and Territory ordinances and regulations will be regularly updated and arranged alphabetically in special binders. New principal, non-amending, legislation will be placed in the binders in alphabetical order, and amending legislation will be placed behind the last reprint or principal legislation until an updated reprint incorporating the amendments is produced. The separate pamphlets will replace the bound general reprintsconsolidations hitherto published. Bound annual volumes will continue to be published as the permanent historical record of Commonwealth and Territory legislation to supplement the separate pamphlet general reprints. When completed, the separate pamphlet system will contain, in separate sets of substantially made binders for each body of law, the complete set of all Commonwealth and Territory legislation as currently in force. The pamphlets can also be used separately if required. The pamphlet system of reprinting is now used or proposed to be used in all Australian States, and the United Kingdom is also producing reprints in a similar form. The Law Council of Australia has expressed on behalf of its constituent bodies its view in favour of a separate pamphlet reprinting system. 
A general reprint of Australian Capital Territory ordinances and regulations as at 31 
December 1977 had reached an advanced stage when the decision to change to a pamphlet reprint system was reached. It is proposed, therefore, to commence the pamphlet reprint system with the production of Australian Capital Territory ordinances and regulations updated to incorporate amendments to the time of reprinting of each separate pamphlet reprint. At the same time, work is to be undertaken on producing pamphlet reprints of Acts and statutory rules. In the first instance, pamphlets will be produced in order of priority of need to make up a basic set. Others will be prepared later to complete the set. It is estimated that it will take about two years to complete a set. Regularly-produced companion tables booklets, with monthly supplements, will show what has been reprinted, dates of reprints and details of amendments. This will meet the Joint Committee's recommendation 8. The tables booklets for Australian Capital Territory laws and statutory rules are in the course of preparation. 
The Joint Committee also recommended that annual volumes be undertaken on a regular basis and be available within one year of the year to which they refer- recommendation 7. Now that the backlog of annual volumes of Acts and statutory rules is being overtaken following a concentration of effort in the Attorney-General's Department the Attorney-General is sure that this recommendation can be met. The Joint Committee asked for an investigation of resources, including a task force, to achieve adherence to the Committee 's recommendations- recommendations 1 1 and 12. The Public Service Board and the Attorney-General's Department conducted an investigation as recommended by the Committee with a view to overtaking arrears and otherwise meeting the Committee's recommendations. 
Arrears had built up gradually from a variety of causes over the last few years. In particular, the staff established in Sydney to prepare the 1901-1973 general reprint of Acts was relocated to Canberra for more efficient operations but there were resultant losses of staff and it took time to refill the positions and train new staff. Further arrears occurred owing to the imposition of additional functions on publications staff until new positions were created for the additional functions; but there has always been difficulty in obtaining and retaining suitable persons for publication work, which requires great concentration and attention to detail. Further, there has been an increasing workload of proof-reading of draft legislation prepared by the Legislative Drafting Division of the Attorney-General 's Department and additional proof-reading resulting from the use of the Government Printer's computerised phototypesetting process for printing of annual volumes of Acts. As recommended by the Joint Committee in recommendation 10, material for annual volumes of Acts and reprints is produced by this process. The text of legislation, which is printed originally by a hot-metal process, is rekeyed into the computer typesetting process for reproduction in the annual volumes and reprints. As the Committee noted, when fully developed, legislation should be able to be more readily produced in its consolidated form by the computerised process. A benefit by-product of this process is that the tape can be used in the legal information retrieval system that is currently being developed by the Attorney-General's Department. 
The investigating team recommended a relocation of the publications functions within the Department to allow for more effective management, and supported the replacing of bound general reprints by the separate pamphlet reprint system for all Commonwealth and Territory legislation. In accordance with recommendations of the investigating team, the existing staff now engaged on bound general reprints and on pamphlet reprints will be amalgamated to work on the general pamphlet reprint system. By using existing staff on a continuous separate pamphlet system a task force as recommended by the Joint Committee in recommendation 12 that would redeploy staff from other parts of the Department should now not be necessary. The investigating team, as recommended by the Joint Committee in recommendation 13, also discussed with the Australian Government Publishing Service the systems relating to the copy prepared for and produced by the Government Printer and their recommendations are being implemented in the Department. A separate report on the AGPS was presented by the Joint Committee on 24 November 1978. The Attorney-General's Department has arranged with AGPS for it to be advised whenever updated reprints of Acts, Statutory Rules and Territory legislation are needed in accordance with the recommendation of the Joint Committee in recommendation 14. Details of printing and the design of binders and methods of stock-holding for the new separate pamphlet reprinting system are currently being worked out in consultation with AGPS. 
Following recommendation 9 of the Joint Committee, the responsibility for publishing Northern Territory laws has been transferred to the Northern Territory Government. In accordance with recommendation 15 of the Joint Committee, the Attorney-General's Department will make a further report to the Committee within 12 months of its report in relation to matters within the Department's responsibility and into which the Committee has said that further inquiry by the Committee is warranted, and on other relevant matters. I present the following paper: 
Publication of Commonwealth Legislation- Ministerial Statement, 28 February 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question because it is one which is a matter of concern to him and to other members on this side of the House. The Government also was concerned about the situation relating to apprentices. As a result it asked for the Public Service Board and my Department to conduct a survey of the capacity to increase the number of apprentices taken on by the Australian Public Service. As a result of that survey the Government agreed that an additional 230 should be engaged. 
We were also conscious that staff ceilings might inhibit the taking on of that number of apprentices. The Government, in its decision, asked for a report on the effect of staff ceilings on its desire to increase the intake of apprentices. The decision must be looked at in that light. On the other hand, if it is necessary to increase the staff ceilings to take on the 230 apprentices the Government will be favourably looking at that. A report from the Public Service Board should be available any day and it will be presented to the Prime Minister. 
I wish to reply to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in the discussion of the matter of public importance which he proposed before the suspension of the sitting for lunch. I remind the House that the matter raised by the honourable member is: 
The gross inadequacies of the Government's measures to assist the unemployed. 
From the speech of the honourable gentleman one could say, not unreasonably, that he forgot the matter which he proposed to this House as a matter of public importance. He sought to attack me as Minister and the Government because of what I said yesterday at Question Time concerning my request to the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs to report to me on the application of the work test in respect of work for casual fruit pickers which is available in the Shepparton and Mildura districts. I said then, and I say again, that I expect that many people in the community- taxpayers- ask themselves, properly, whether when work of this kind is available they should be paying, by way of tax, unemployment benefit to people who are fit and able to take that work but who decline to go to the place where the work is available. That report is coming to me from my department. 
The honourable gentleman alleged that when I answered the question on this matter yesterday I had no information from my department on it. I assure the House that I had information- written material- from my department which I had requested some days before. I have been looking at this matter for some days, since the first Press reports about the situation at Mildura appeared. The honourable gentleman also accused the Government of taking the action that I spoke about yesterday because the Government expected that the Budget appropriation for unemployment benefits would be overspent by $100m. I assure the House that that is a completely false accusation. 
I remind the House that during the years of the Whitlam regime the Labor Government considerably overspent against the Budget appropriation for unemployment benefit payments. I shall quickly run through the figures. In 1972-73 there was an over expenditure of $ 12.6m. In 1973-74 the figure was $16.9m. In 1974-75-a Labor year- the figure was $1 16.7m. In 1975- 76- predominantly a Labor year- the over expenditure was $ 184.8m. In 1976-77 the over expenditure was $16 1.1m and in 1977-78 it was $ 154.1m. In other words, there is a pattern of over expenditure against Budget appropriation. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which has been prepared by the Department of Social Security. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="113131197903010_29_2.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. I also point out to the House some relevant statistics concerning the character of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit payments. The honourable member for Port Adelaide sought to wring out the last drop of what he thought was blood from his argument. He alleged that it was most unreasonable for the community to expect people to travel to Mildura or Shepparton seeking casual work. A survey conducted by the Department of Social Security in December 1978 revealed that 74.7 per cent of all beneficiaries had no dependants. I think that speaks for itself. 
I am surprised that this matter of public importance has been proposed for discussion today. Only last week the Opposition proposed a similar matter of public importance for discussion. I made clear then the origins of the current levels of employment. I cite again a few of the pertinent figures. In June of 1974 the registered unemployed figure stood at less than 80,000. Twelve months later registered unemployed had reached a quarter of a million. In 12 months the figure had risen to a quarter of a million under the then Labor Government. I shall narrow the figures down so that people may appreciate what happened during that time under that Government. In August 1974 there were 107,000 registered unemployed; in September, 121,000; in October, 150,000; in November, 190,000; in December, 267,000; and in January 1975 the figure was 312,000. 
Last week I also made it clear that the Government believes that the only way to correct the severe disruption of the Australian economy which occurred as a result of the events of 1973-74 is by way of a prudent non-inflationary managed recovery. The most important contribution government can make to assist the community, to assist those seeking work and to take up the challenge ahead, is to maintain stability in economic management and economic policies. That is not to say that governments should be inflexible or unresponsive to changing circumstances. But for the benefit of investors, business and the work force it must be consistent and re- , liable in the pursuit of effective management of the economy. Undoubtedly the Fraser Government has reassured the business community on that and the condition of industry and the economy have improved markedly as a result. Since the last months of last year we have received the results of surveys and economic statistics which continuously show an improving economy and also an improving employment situation. 
Today the Commonwealth Statistician released figures which show a substantial increase, in seasonally adjusted terms, in total employment during December. I think it is about time that this House started to pay attention to what is happening in the overall employment field rather than concentrating on unemployment to the exclusion of all other things. I say that not to detract from the significance of unemployment and what needs to be done by the Government and by the community as a whole for those people who at present cannot find the work they want. The significance of the Statistician 's figures is that the increase was no less than 20,000 for the month and follows upon an increase of 17,000 in November. It was the sixth successive month in which employment, in seasonally adjusted terms, had increased. The figure now stands at 57,000 more than the June 1978 figure. Manufacturing employment in seasonally adjusted terms increased for three successive months. Although this brought only a modest increase in employment of 1 1,000 it is an encouraging sign for manufacturing industry given all that has happened to it in recent years. 
I turn to some of the other statistics. Civilian employment rose strongly in December 1978- by 20,400 persons. This was the sixth consecutive monthly increase and followed a similar strong rise of 16,900 persons in November. The number of civilian employees at December 1978 was 4,757,400. This is the highest seasonally adjusted figure since October 1974 when it was 4,766,000. The increase for the six months, June to December 1978, was 56,000. This was the largest increase since the six months, June to December 1973, when the figure was 135,000. The increase for the month of December 1978 is the largest increase since the month of December 1973. There is clear evidence that our policies, pursued since we won office in 1975, are bearing fruit not only in the economy generally but in the important area in which I must work- that is, in employment. Let me remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide what his present leader, when Treasurer, said in his Budget speech on 19 August 1975, which is recorded at page 53 in the relevant  Hansard.  He said: 
Our present level of unemployment is too high. If we fail  to  control inflation unemployment will get worse. 
That is what  Mr Hayden  said when he was the Labor Treasurer. Later in his speech he said: 
In the context of an economy beginning to pick up, a deficit of the order initially projected would have been a prescription for accelerating inflation. Its acceptance would have been tantamount to abandoning concern with inflation, discarding our wages policies, condemning the corporate sector to an attack upon its profitability and threatening the future jobs of thousands of Australians- all at a time when the first signs of improvement in most of those respects are beginning to appear. 
Bearing those words in mind, let us remind ourselves of the question asked this morning by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  when he attacked the present level of profitability of Australian companies. How well does that stand in relation to the words which I have just quoted? I repeat what he said in 1 975: 
Its acceptance - 
That is, its acceptance of a deficit of an order initially projected-   . . would have been tantamount to abandoning concern with inflation, discarding our wages policies, condemning the corporate sector to an attack upon its profitability . . . 
The Leader of the Opposition knows, as we know, that healthy profits mean a healthy economy. That is borne out by the employment figures which I was able to announce just a moment ago. I would love to be able to incorporate in  Hansard  a recently published cartoon by Larry Pickering but I will read what is so graphically portrayed by Pickering. He shows a picture of the Leader of the Opposition saying: 
Heavens! The economy is improving! Investment is up! Employers are taking on more staff! The stock market's showing confidence. Retail figures are up! It's imperative the Government alter its economic strategy now! 
That is what  Mr Hayden  is shown as saying. Then there is a person in the background- it looks like the honourable member for Port Adelaide- with an Australian Labor Party briefcase in his hand, who is quoted as saying: 
Or we're done for. 
How very true that is. How very much they realise that it is the economic policies and strategies of this Government which are producing the very thing for which the Leader of the Opposition called when he was Treasurer. But it is the voices in the background, the voices of the honourable member for Port Adelaide and others, which are pulling at the Labor leader to say: 'Do not acknowledge the success of the Government's policies because if you do, we the Opposition are done for.' 
There is a wide range of programs supported by this Government which have been supported actively since we have been in office. I point out that expenditure on training programs under the present Government has risen from $8 7m in 1975-76 to $182m in the current financial year. That is an investment by this Government in people. It is an investment which matches the investment in plant that we provided industry through our investment allowance policies. I also remind honourable members of the undertaking given that these programs would not be constrained by funding within the limitations of our Budget. I will state briefly the number of people covered by training schemes. I refer to the number of trainees trained under the National Employment and Training scheme over the last four years. In 1975 the total was 20,800. In the calendar year 1976-77 to 1977-78, the number trained under NEAT was 270,000. There were 135,000 trainees under the Special Youth Employment Training Program, 95,000 on-the-job trainees and 45,000 formal course trainees. The estimated number of trainees under NEAT in 1978-79 is 1 12,000 of whom 90,000 will be training under SYETP. The latest survey of SYETP trainees indicates that 61 per cent of trainees were in employment three months after the end of their training period. This compares more than favourably with the similar type schemes overseas. I point out that our policies are adequate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The Minister's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for certain antitrust judgments of foreign courts not to be recognised and not to be enforceable in Australia. This is not the first occasion that efforts to enforce the antitrust laws of other countries have led to the introduction of a Bill into this Parliament. Honourable members will recall that in 1976 the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act was passed to prevent Australian-based evidence from being used in foreign legal proceedings to which there was objection from the Australian point of view. That Act is not confined, as the present Bill is, to antitrust proceedings. However, as the then Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  explained in introducing the 1976 Bill, the need for it had arisen out of legal proceedings that were being taken in the United States of America under the antitrust legislation of that country. 
Those proceedings related to arrangements alleged to have been made in 1972 for the marketing of uranium. The proceedings included a grand jury inquiry and civil proceedings by the Westinghouse Electric Corporation claiming some $7 billion from 29 United States and foreign uranium producers, including 4 Australian companies.  Mr Ellicott  's second reading speech in relation to the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Bill also explained that in the proceedings I have just mentioned claims were being made that the antitrust and related laws of the United States had a greater extra-territorial operation than that generally conceded in international law, and beyond what other countries were prepared to concede in the proceedings. That was the reason for the enactment of the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 1976, under which orders may be made on the basis of noncompliance by a foreign court with international law or comity, or on a need to protect our national interest. 
Two orders were made under the Act and remade following the enactment of certain amendments to the Act. Both the orders related to the uranium marketing arrangements I have mentioned above and were based on the need to protect our national interest. The orders have been effective in preventing the Australian-based evidence from being used for the purpose of the United States proceedings. I am pleased to be able to inform the House, moreover, that the grand jury inquiry into the uranium marketing arrangements has been concluded and that no proceedings by the United States Justice Department have been instituted against any Australian company in consequence of that inquiry. 
The civil proceedings in which the Westinghouse Electric Corporation was claiming treble damages from the uranium producers are, however, still pending. In those proceedings nine non-United States defendants declined to enter appearances. They did this because they considered there were jurisdictional objections to the proceedings against them and that they might be taken to have waived those objections if they were to enter appearances. The effect of their not entering appearances has been the entry by the United States court of a default judgment against them. The amount of the judgment still has to be determined, but there are indications that that could be done in the near future. It can be assumed that the Westinghouse Electric Corporation will then take whatever action is available to it to enforce the judgment. 
Whether a judgment of a foreign court is entitled to be recognised and enforced in Australia is, of course, a matter for Australian law. In general, two procedures for this are available: One is provided in the common law; the other is the subject of State and Territory legislation. At common law a foreign judgment cannot be directly enforced by execution but, subject to certain qualifications, it may be recognised and found an action which could result in a judgment able to be so enforced. For that purpose, there is no requirement of reciprocal rights in the foreign country in respect of Australian judgments. 
Under the State and Territory legislation certain classes of foreign judgments may be registered in the State or Territory and then directly enforced as if they were judgments of the local supreme court. However, with the exception of the South Australian legislation, the applicability of their provisions in relation to a judgment of a particular country is dependent on an order in council being made upon satisfaction that substantial reciprocity is assured from that country and that no such order in council has been made in respect of the United States of America. The South Australian legislation provides for the court of a foreign country to be proclaimed as a court of reciprocal jurisdiction, but such a proclamation is not essential to the operation of the legislation, which is based rather on the rules of private international law and comity. 
Whether at common law or under the State or Territory legislation, the recognition and enforcement rights for foreign judgments are not unlimited. For example, judgments in proceedings in which the foreign court did not have jurisdiction are not recognised; nor are judgments that are contrary to public policy or of a penal nature. It would, however, be unsatisfactory that the defendants to the Westinghouse treble damages judgment should have to rely on those grounds in order to resist enforcement of that judgment. By the action the Government has already taken under the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 1976, it has made clear its views that the Westinghouse proceedings are against our national interest. That being the position, it is desirable that legislative and executive action be taken which will leave no doubt that the judgment will not be recognised or enforced in Australia. 
Whilst the immediate need for the present Bill arises out of the default judgment the Westinghouse Electric Corporation has obtained, the Bill does not in terms refer to that judgment. As in the case of the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act, the Bill provides for the making by the Attorney-General of orders. Such orders are to be in respect of particular antitrust judgments, and before making an order the Attorney-General is to be satisfied that there has been inconsistency with international law or comity or that his action is desirable to protect the national interest. I inform the House that when the Bill has become law it is the intention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to make an order in respect of the default judgment of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation to which I have referred and to do so on the ground that such action is desirable to protect the national interest. Any order that is made under the proposed legislation will have to be tabled and it will be subject to disallowance by either House of Parliament. 
On 14 September last year, in answer to a question by  Senator Young,  the AttorneyGeneral reported on the outcome of certain consultations that had just been held in Washington with the United States Attorney-General and representatives of his Department concerning the extra-territorial application of antitrust laws. In the Attorney-General's answer he indicated that the consultations had covered civil as well as criminal proceedings and that he was looking forward with some optimism to the prospect of an agreement being reached within six months. That allowed for a period during which the heads of agreement on which the consultations took place could be considered in detail by the Department of Justice and other United States departments involved. The present position in relation to those consultations is that we are still awaiting the response of the United States authorities on the proposed heads of agreement. It is expected that a response will be received very soon. The response will not, however, render the present Bill unnecessary because the proposals we are exploring with the United States authorities will be applicable only in respect of future marketing arrangements. They will not be applicable to the Westinghouse proceedings. 
It is to be hoped that it will prove possible to obtain a better understanding with the United States authorities in relation to the enforcement of their antitrust laws. For its part, the Government will certainly be pursuing that objective. In the meantime, however, there is a clear need for us to take whatever steps are available to us to protect the Australian national interest. That is the essential purpose of the present Bill. I therefore commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-Yes, I will,  Mr Speaker.  But I think it would be of interest to the honourable member for Port Adelaide to point out the substance of this proposal recommended by the National Training Council, which comprises unions, employers and Government members. The scheme will be directed mainly at people in the 1 8 to 22 years age group who want to become tradesmen but who missed out on apprenticeships. They would undertake a training program which will incorporate an initial full time training period, including technical education comparable to that required for apprenticeship - 
-And off-the-job training which is heavily practical in content. If I might make this short final point,  Mr Speaker  - 
by leave- There is, I believe, genuine concern within the community to see that all those persons who cannot obtain employment through no fault of their own should receive unemployment benefit. This is strongly supported by the Government. There is also some feeling within the community that any people who are not making reasonable attempts to obtain work or who might be refusing work that is available and still receiving unemployment benefit should not be assisted at the expense of the general taxpayer. Against this background, the Government has decided that the certain administrative arrangements associated with the provision of unemployment benefit should be reviewed. 
Part VII of the Social Services Act sets out the legislative provisions relating to unemployment benefit. In particular, section 107 (c) of the Social Services Act specifies among the qualifications for benefit that a person is unemployed and that his unemployment is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike, is capable of undertaking, and is willing to undertake, work which in the opinion of the Director-General of Social Services is suitable to be undertaken by that person, and has taken reasonable steps to obtain such work. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service acts as an agent for the Department of Social Security in reporting on whether suitable employment for a given individual is available. The procedures and guidelines which the Commonwealth Employment Service adopts as an agent of the Director-General is commonly referred to as the work test. Under the Act the determination of what is suitable work in terms of section 107 (c) (ii) is properly a matter for him to determine. 
Clearly, however, they involve matters of administrative judgment. For instance, in administering these arrangements the present practice is to seek to make an offer of employment to a person in his usual occupation or of an equivalent kind. Work of an equivalent kind is work of a type or nature in which the person usually engages or in which the person's experience, qualifications and training could be used. Where, after a reasonable period, it has not been possible for a person to obtain employment in his usual occupation or work of an equivalent kind, the range of suitable jobs to which he may be referred is extended to all which are within the person's capacity and which are open to him even though they may involve a change in his status or wages. A period of six weeks after registration for employment has been regarded as a reasonable period. However, this period may be extended up to three months where it is considered that to do otherwise would be detrimental to the person finding employment in his usual occupation. 
The CES's present instructions provide that in extending the range of suitable jobs it is not envisaged that, as a general rule, registrants would move after a period of 6 to 12 weeks immediately from one end of the occupational scale to the other. Rather, there is a counselling process, over the full 12 weeks in some cases, in which the applicant is encouraged to consider and accept employment in selected occupations which are within his capacity and available to him, even though a change in status may be involved. 
It might be considered that such a provision for counselling over a period of up to three months- whilst still receiving unemployment benefit- with the object of advising an individual to seek employment which may involve a lower status than he has been trained for, or is accustomed to, is somewhat generous. It might be considered that a more appropriate and objective criterion would be to have regard only to his or her mental and physical health in applying the work test. 
From time to time Ministers for Social Security and Ministers responsible for the Commonwealth Employment Service have established working parties of officials from both departments to examine the administrative arrangements appropriate to these provisions of the Act. The Government has decided, having regard to current practice, that it would now be appropriate to establish such a group to review urgently these administrative provisions and to report urgently to my colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  and myself. 
Furthermore, in reviewing the current arrangements, officers have been asked to include in their examinations the question of applying the work test to casual vacancies and arrangements in respect of referring people to jobs out of their district. We have also specifically requested that our attention be drawn to any persons or classes of persons who might be adversely affected by any variations in administrative arrangements. We have also asked them to advise on whether the current allocation of responsibilities between the respective departments with regard to the application and administration of the work test is the most appropriate arrangement. We have asked that this report be available in two weeks. When this report has been received it will be considered by the Government. At the same time as establishing this working party I have asked my officers to reaffirm current instructions relating to the application of the work test and ensure that it is strictly applied. 
I have said on other occasions that there are some hopeful signs showing up amongst the economic indicators being released. I say 'hopeful signs' because I do not wish to be accused of overstating the emerging signs of recovery, real as they are. In these circumstances, I think the community would wish to be satisfied that all those who are unemployed and genuinely seeking work should be properly protected by receiving unemployment benefit but that the administration of the application of the work test would be such that it would protect the taxpayer from abuses of the system. I present the following paper: 
Review of Administrative Arrangements for Application of the Work Test-Ministerial Statement, 6 March 1 979. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: That the House take note of the paper. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill makes a number of miscellaneous amendments to the Family Law Act 1975. Nearly half the Bill consists of amendments to the provisions of the Act relating to the Institute of Family Studies. Most of the other amendments in the Bill are based on recommendations of the Family Law Council. 
The Act established the Institute of Family Studies as a national research and educational body, the object of which is to try to identify, and disseminate information on, the factors- both negative and positive- affecting marital and family stability in Australia. The Government attaches great importance to the establishment of the Institute, and is aware of concerned and continuing interest in the Institute both within this Parliament and throughout the community. 
Under the Act, the Institute consists of a Director and four or more other members, and also support staff and consultants to be engaged by the Director with the approval of the AttorneyGeneral. Since the first step in setting up the Institute is clearly the appointment of a Director, the Government arranged for the position to be advertised within Australia and overseas early last year. A large number of applications from within Australia and overseas were received, and the Attorney-General approved the constitution of an expert panel headed by the Chief Judge of the Family Court of Australia to interview applicants. Unfortunately, although the leading applicants were distinguished in their own fields of professional interests, with one exception the panel felt unable to recommend any for the position. The one applicant whom the panel did recommend as a suitable person subsequently decided, on further consideration, to withdraw his application for the position. 
At about the time the interviewing panel submitted its report the Attorney-General's Department discovered that the provisions of the Act concerning the Institute were defective in that they did not make adequate provision for terms and conditions of appointment of the Director. Subsequently, after further examination, it was found that the provisions, which were inserted by way of an amendment when the original Family Law Bill was before the Senate, were defective in several other respects. 
I should, perhaps, make it clear that the defects in the provisions of the Act were not the cause of the decision of the applicant for the position of Director recommended by the panel to withdraw his application. However, because of the importance that the Government places on the establishment of the Institute, it approved the preparation of the amendments in the Bill with a view to re-advertising the position and inviting further applications. In fact, as honourable members may be aware, the position was readvertised on 30 September last. Since then interviews of applicants have been conducted and have just been completed by the expert interviewing panel. 
The amendments contained in the Bill regarding the Institute are quite detailed. However, I can assure honourable members that the functions of the Institute as presently provided for in the Act have been preserved without change. What the amendments do is to fill in the blanks, as it were, regarding the terms and conditions of appointment of not only the Director but also the members of the Institute. The terms and conditions provided for in the Bill are those usually found in legislation establishing similar statutory bodies, such as, for example, the Australian Institute of Criminology. 
There are a couple of other provisions in the Bill regarding the Institute which I should mention briefly. Under the Act in its present form, both the Director and the members are appointed by the Attorney-General. Under the amendments they would be appointed by the Governor-General, which is more usual for offices of this nature. The Bill includes a provision for a Board of Management of the Institute, since the Act as it stands does not distinguish between the Institute meaning the governing body and the Institute meaning the Director, members and staff as a whole. The respective roles of the Board of Management of the Institute and of the Director are defined by the amendments. Finally, the amendments provide for the terms and conditions of employment of staff and consultants by the Institute to be determined by the Director with the approval of the Public Service Board, instead of the AttorneyGeneral as is provided by the Act now. 
As I mentioned earlier, most of the other amendments in the Bill are based on recommendations made by the Family Law Council. Honourable members will be aware that the Council, which was also established by the Act, has the function of advising the AttorneyGeneral on the working of the Act and other family law legislation, as well as legal aid in family law and other matters relevant to this area of law. 
I acknowledge the interest taken by honourable members and senators in the recommendations published in the first annual report of the Council, and the questions they have raised regarding implementation of the recommendations. Since the Council's recommendations included several which it was felt should be implemented at the first opportunity, when the need to amend the provisions of the Act regarding the Institute of Family Studies arose, the approval of the Government was also obtained to the inclusion of several of those recommendations in the amending Bill. 
As honourable members are aware, pursuant to a resolution of the Parliament a joint select committee is currently undertaking a general review of the Family Law Act. Accordingly, when consideration was given to the question of which recommendations of the Family Law Council should be implemented without delay, regard was also had to the question whether implementation of any of the recommendations might preempt the findings of a parliamentary committee. As a result, the amendments in the Bill are of a technical and non-controversial nature, which do not make substantial changes in any areas of the Act that are singled out by the terms of reference for the Parliamentary Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act, or which are likely to become the subject of submissions to the Committee. The amendments make no changes of principle to the Act; on the contrary, they generally correct defects or otherwise contribute to the smoother administration of the Act according to its existing principles. 
Perhaps the most substantial of these amendments concern the welfare and custody of children. The Bill will extend the range of circumstances in which a court can order the parties to confer with a counsellor, or can order a counsellor to report to it, on the welfare of children of the marriage. These powers will become available to the court in any proceedings in which the welfare of children of a marriage is affected. The Bill also will enable a person other than a parent to make an application for custody of a child who is the subject of a custody order where the parent awarded custody has died. The courts already have the power to award custody to a non-parent in these circumstances- but only if the surviving parent makes a custody application. This amendment is prompted by several cases in the courts the most recent of which was a decision of the High Court. 
In the important area of enforcement of orders the Bill makes 3 minor or clarifying amendments, one of which implements a recommendation of the Family Law Council. On the recommendation of the Council, the Bill clarifies the authority of a person under a warrant directing him to take possession of a child who has been the subject of a custody order. Another amendment removes doubts about the validity of regulations permitting the salaries of members of the Australian Public Service and the public services of the States to be attached for the enforcement of maintenance orders under the Act. The Bill also enables the Family Court of Western Australia and magistrates courts to punish breaches of undertakings given to courts, as well as orders, as contempts of court. 
The authority of courts to set aside or discharge property settlement orders, maintenance orders and maintenance agreements under the Act is extended slightly by the Bill. The discretion of a court to set aside a property settlement order will be exerciseable where there has been a miscarriage of justice arising from circumstances other than those now specified by the Act, such as fraud or false evidence. The recommendation of the Family Law Council on which this is based was prompted by specific cases in which the existing provision of the Act was found to be too narrow. The power of a court to reduce or discharge a maintenance order as from a date in the past has been changed to the extent that the date can be earlier than in the preceding 12 months, which is the limit now prescribed by the Act. In future, the approval of a maintenance agreement will be revocable by courts other than the court that granted the approval. 
A change recommended by the Council to the appeal provisions of the Act has been included in the Bill. Under the Bill, appeals from magistrates courts to the Family Court will be by way of a complete rehearing. The recommendation follows experience in cases under the existing provisions of the Act, which restrict the extent to which the appeal court can hear evidence and which have proved less than satisfactory. 
In 1976, the Family Law Amendment Act extended the opportunity in the original Act for parties to divorce proceedings pending at the commencement of the Family Law Act to have the court decide their case on the ground of divorce under the Family Law Act. On the recommendation of the Council, this Bill further extends the opportunity in those remaining cases begun under the Matrimonial Causes Act that have still not been resolved. What the Bill does is to enable parties in such cases who were not separated for 12 months at the commencement of the Family Law Act but who have since been separated for 12 months to have their cases decided on the ground of divorce under the Family Law Act. 
In the area of jurisdiction of courts, the Bill includes provision to enable the termination of jurisdiction of magistrates courts under the Act to be reversed. It also extends the power of a court of first instance to state a case to the Full Court of the Family Court to the Family Court of Western Australia and the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, which still exercises jurisdiction under the Act in the Territory. 
Apart from amendments implementing the recommendations of the Family Law Council, the Bill also includes a small number of amendments of a largely formal or minor nature to facilitate the operation of the Act. These concern the powers of courts to transfer, stay or dismiss proceedings, the appointment of members of the Commonwealth Police as marshal and deputy marshals of the Family Court of Australia and appeals from approvals of maintenance agreements. 
As honourable members will perceive, none of the amendments contained in this Bill affects the main principles of the Act. The feature that is common to all the amendments, including those recommended by the Family Law Council and those concerning the Institute of Family Studies, is that they are intended to facilitate the operation of the Act in the manner originally conceived by the Act. The amendments concerning the Institute have to be enacted before the formal appointment of a director can be made, and the Government, not to mention interested honourable members, honourable senators and the community at large, would like to see this achieved as soon as possible. The other amendments, in so far as they are needed to overcome inconveniences or shortcomings in the Act, are also needed as soon as possible. I therefore ask honourable members to give this Bill their early consideration. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs has now taken over the two mini-computers previously operated by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations: 
a Digital Equipment PDP1 1 /04, which is owned by the Department, and 
a Data 100, which is rented. 
(a) The PDP11 was purchased in 1977-78 for $46,500. 
The Data 100 is rented at a current annual rental cost of$20,000. 
(a) The PDP1 1 is used mainly for manpower forecasting and survey processing. 
The Data 100 is used mainly for processing manpower programme information, job vacancy circulation in Victoria, survey processing, library cataloguing and occupational information processing. 
(a) The PDP11 stores data on manpower and the labour market. 
The Data 100 processes data on job vacancies, manpower programme utilisation, occupations and library publications 
(a) The PDP 1 1 is linked via a Telecom Australia communications line to the CSIRO computer network. 
The Data. 100 is linked via a Telecom Australia communications line to service bureau equipment operated by ADAPS Ltd 
(a) and (b) Authorised personnel within the Department for official purposes. 
The computer systems which have been introduced by the Department to date have been designed primarily to enable the Department to deliver a better and more efficient manpower service to the public and to have access to more comprehensive, accurate and timely manpower and labour market information. Use of computers has allowed provision of a service and information which, in the main, could not have been contemplated manually. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs has now taken over the computer systems previously in operation in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. The systems are designed to assist the Department to improve its day to day operations and management and thereby provide a better service to the public. The systems basically process information rather than store such information. As a by-product the following information listed is available to the public in aggregated form: 
Manpower and labour market statistics; 
Job vacancies in Victoria; 
Information on careers in Victoria. 
No information on individual employers, job-seekers or persons making use of manpower programmes (eg, NEAT, CRAFT) is made publicly available. 
The information listed in (a), (b) and (c) above is made available to job-seekers, schools, tertiary institutions and other organisations and individuals with interest in the subject matter. 
(a) Aggregated statistics on manpower and the labour market are published regularly. 
Information on individual job vacancies in Victoria (excluding identification of the employer) is available to the public through the Victorian offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. This information is also made available to Victorian secondary and tertiary educational institutions for educational purposes. 
Information on careers available in Victoria is produced each school term. It is made available to secondary schools, tertiary educational institutions and public libraries throughout Victoria. In addition, this career information is available to the public through the Victorian offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service- 
Government Income from Sport 
Government Income from Sport  (Question No. 2456) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Employment Service offices in the Brisbane Statistical Division which have been approached by Woolworths Pty Ltd in order to obtain staff for its supermarkets are Alderley, Annerley, Brisbane, Chermside, Fortitude Valley, Inala, Indooroopilly, Ipswich, Mount Gravatt, Nundah, Redcliffe, Woolongabba and Wynnum. 
(a) In the period July 1977-June 1978 a total of 290 persons placed in 12 Woolworth Supermarkets in the Brisbane Statistical Division were eligible to receive a subsidy under the Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP). 
Payment records are not maintained on a basis which would allow a precise figure to be given for the Brisbane Statistical Division. However it is estimated that total payments to Woolworths in respect of the above trainees would be approximately $300,000. 
and (4) All allegations of abuses under SYETP are fully investigated by my Department. No complaints have been received against Woolworth supermarkets operating in the Brisbane statistical district. Other complaints against Woolworths Pty Ltd concerning use of SYETP subsidies have been investigated by my Department and only in one instance could the complaint be regarded as being justified. This involved the retrenchment of junior females and their subsequent replacement by SYETP trainees. That particular issue has now been satisfactorily resolved following discussions between my Department and Woolworths Pty Ltd. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Social Services Act provides that to qualify for unemployment benefit a person must: not be in receipt of an age, invalid or widow 's pension, a tuberculosis allowance, or a service pension (as distinct from a war pension); be at least 16 years of age and if a male, under 65 years, or if a female, under 60 years; be residing in Australia and have been continuously so resident for not less than one year immediately prior to the date of the claim or if not so resident for that period, intend to reside permanently in Australia; be unemployed; be capable of undertaking and willing to undertake suitable work; and not be unemployed due to being a direct participant in a strike. 
The Act also imposes a means test on income. In addition the Director-General of the Department of Social Security requires that the person be registered for employment with the CES. 
My Department does not designate areas in Australia as such. 
No. However, under the terms and conditions of the 'work test' which is applied to recipients of unemployment benefit, single beneficiaries over the age of 18 years are expected to be prepared to accept suitable employment which involves them living away from home. One of the aspects of the work test is that the CES offer the person a specific vacant position in a new area and, where appropriate, advise the person of the assistance available under the Fares Assistance Scheme and the Relocation Assistance Scheme. Where the person declines an offer of employment in these circumstances, the Commonwealth Employment 
Service is required to report the facts to the Department of Social Security which is obliged to reject a claim, or terminate benefit, and to advise the person of the right of appeal. 
In administering the provision of the work test I have outlined in (3) above, the CES is guided by the suitability of the individual beneficiary concerned for the specific vacant position in the new area. 
No, see my answer to (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) See my answer to question No. 2774. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Due to a combination of factors, including the weakening demand for Australia's exports, reduced private fixed capital expenditure and sharply rising labour costs and prices, employment fell from a cyclical peak of 4,806,500 in June 1974 to 4,738,100 in November 1975 (a decline of 68,400 jobs). Employment continued to fall in the subsequent period, albeit at a slower rate of decline, largely because of the continuing influence of the factors already mentioned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, my attention has been drawn to the Annual Report of the Australian Industries Development Association (AIDA) for 1977-78 and the projections of labour supply through to 1986 contained in it are not substantially different from those my Department made in its submission to the Study Group on Structural Adjustment, chaired by  Sir John  Crawford. 
My Department has made no projections of unemployment to 1984-85 and does not believe such projections would be useful because of the considerable scope for variation in the many assumptions which would have to be made. 
I am pleased to inform the honourable gentlemen that the Government is proceeding with the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill. There were consultations with the staff associations before Christmas and further consultations took place last week. I aim to put the Bill before the Government's committees in about a fortnight. I will introduce it into the House and, if possible, it will pass through this House and the Senate this session. It will proceed as speedily as it can. I am aware, as is the honourable gentleman, that a great many public servants are waiting anxiously on this Bill. As to the Commonwealth compensation legislation, I understand that my colleague the Minister for Social Security will be having discussions with the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, I believe today, with a view to dealing with its representations for an increase in the rates payable under the compensation Act. 
Roughly 35 per cent of vacancies are registered with the CES. That is an estimate, as the honourable member will appreciate. Certainly it would help greatly, in the service that the CES can provide to people who are registered with it for jobs, if more employers registered their vacancies with the Service. Schemes such as the job search scheme in Tasmania, which was so successful, the Jobuary scheme in South Australia, and the give-a-kid-a-job scheme in Brisbane were all aimed at increasing the rate of vacancies registered with the CES. As I have said, the CES has the people. We need the vacancies in which to place those people. With respect to the application of the work test, it would also assist greatly if an increasing number of vacancies were registered with the CES. I thank the honourable gentleman for bringing this matter to the attention of the House, and I urge all employers to consider utilising the services available through the CES. 
The particular aspects of the question do not come directly within my ministerial responsibility but, I would expect, within the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Social Security. I will direct the question to her and provide the honourable member with a reply. 

 Hansard. The Minister has been making all these allegations. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Legislative Drafting Institute Act 1974 I present the annual report of the Legislative Drafting Institute for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I seek the attention of the House to respond briefly to some of the remarks by the shadow AttorneyGeneral the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)-  and the contributions by my colleagues on this side of the House, namely, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown).  If one thing has become apparent from the contributions of all honourable members it is that without this Bill there would have been a field day for lawyers if ever a foreign judgment had been sought to be enforced in Australia. It may well be that notwithstanding this Bill lawyers may have a field day if a foreign judgment were sought to be enforced in Australia. The debate on this Bill also serves to show that matters of law and international relations are inextricably woven in the issues which have given rise to this piece of legislation. 
The House is well aware of the reasons, in the national interest, for this Bill to be introduced and passed. The Opposition has moved an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time in the same terms as the one moved in the Senate. The Opposition also proposes to move amendments in the Committee stage. In replying to the debate on this Bill in the Senate the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  amply set out the reasons why the amendment proposed to the second reading motion could not be accepted. The Attorney-General observed that the Opposition did not oppose the Bill in principle but rather sought to have it withdrawn and redrafted. I have read the reasons given by the Attorney-General in reply. I feel that they adequately answer the objections that the Opposition seems to have to the procedures adopted in this Bill whereby the Attorney-General may make an order which subsequently might be disallowed. As the Attorney-General described it, his order under the Bill would be in the nature of a holding order and that would be the position unless and until the order is disallowed by the Parliament, 
The Attorney-General also referred to the criteria, which are set out in the Bill, for his exercise of discretion to make an order. Those criteria are to be found in paragraph (b) sub-clause (2) of clause 3. I agree with the Attorney-General's comment that that amply demonstrates the national interest which would require the Attorney-General to make an order. As he quite properly says, it can reasonably be expected that if an order were made while Parliament was sitting then an explanation would be given to the Parliament. If an order were made when Parliament was not sitting, even though there may not be a motion for disallowance, it would be expected that the Attorney-General would explain the reasons for making that order. It is for the reasons which I have broadly expressed that the Government cannot accept the amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion for the second reading and wishes to proceed with the Bill. 
I thank the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  for their contributions in which they pointed out some of the complex legal aspects of private international law involved in the Bill and involved also in this whole area of the recognition within Australia of foreign judgments. The honourable member for St George commented on the situation concerning treble damages provisions in the United States legislation. I think that he explained well, on behalf of the Government, the reason why there is in the Bill power for the AttorneyGeneral to make an order to the effect not that the foreign judgment shall not be recognised or enforceable in Australia but that the amount of the judgment shall be varied. Whilst treble damages provisions in legislation are well recognised as being penal in character, it can properly be said that the Attorney-General ought to have this power, if he is disposed to allow a foreign judgment to be recognised or enforced in Australia, nevertheless to reduce the amount of the judgment to what might be regarded as being an equitable amount of damages which the plaintiff ought to recover in Australia. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
As I indicated in my reply to the second reading debate, the Government does not accept the proposed amendments to clause 3 of the Bill, which deals with the power granted to the Attorney-General to reduce the amount of a foreign judgment if he is otherwise disposed to allow that judgment to be recognised or enforceable in Australia. I do not wish to add to the comments that I made then, except to say that I do not really see the point of the last comment made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He said that if the Attorney-General reduced the amount of the judgment that would put him in a different position, in respect of the Parliament, than if he made an order declaring that the judgment shall not be recognised or enforceable in Australia. Where the amount of the judgment is reduced for the purposes of recognition and enforcement in Australia, then the party holding the judgment may, if he wants to try to have the full amount of the judgment recognised and enforced in Australia, seek to have Parliament disallow the Attorney-General's order. 
-It would not be too late. 
Because the judgment is available to be enforced. If the honourable gentleman is thinking that the defendant might well try to remove assets out of the jurisdiction, then I have no doubt that the courts in Australia have power to prevent that from occurring. The plaintiff need not suffer any detriment except, as the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  pointed out in the Senate, by being delayed in having his judgment enforced. Otherwise his position would not be altered. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Four. 
No submissions were received. 
Refer to (2) above. 
No discussions were held with State Ministers, however, discussions were held with officials from several State Governments. 
Uses will include: Cartography, crop yield forecasting, crop disease detection and monitoring, environmental and pollution monitoring, forest, pasture and rangeland management, flood and lire control, geological surveying, oceanography, water resources management, urban and regional development monitoring. 
Those state departments with responsibility for matters in (5) above. 
Refer to (5) above. 
Bureau of Mineral Resources, CSIRO, Division of National Mapping, Department of Primary Industry, Department of Science and the Environment, Department of Housing and Construction, Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. 
The report was tabled in Parliament on 4 April 1978. 
10) and (11) Refer to (9) above. 
12) (a) The completed ASTEC/Interim ASTEC reports, prepared pursuant to working party activities which have been released are: 
Arrangements for Biological Surveys in Australia', and Participation in the Global Atmospheric Research Program', (tabled in Parliament on 4 April 1 978). 
Energy Research and Development in Australia', (tabled on 4 April 1978). 
Consideration of the Report of the Independent Inquiry into the CSIRO', (tabled on 1 1 May 1978). 
Science and Technology in Australia, 1977-78, Volume 1A', (tabled on 26 September 1978). 
Report on the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology andGeophysics(BMR)'(tabledon21 November 1978). 
The completed ASTEC report entitled 'The Direct Funding of Basic Research ' has not been released. It was forwarded to the Prime Minister on 1 9 December 1 978. 
13) A decision on the release of the Report on Basic Research referred to in ( 12) (b) will be made by the Prime Minister following consultation with appropriate Ministers. 
Refer to (13) above. 
Referto(12)(a)above. 
Refer to (12) (a) above. 
I refer the honourable member to the Appendix to the ASTEC Report on the Bureau of Mineral Resources Geology and Geophysics (BMR). 
Refer to (12) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As at the end of January 1979, 24,929 vacancies registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service remain unfilled. 
Yes, my Department has already requested the De partment of Foreign Affairs to inform the Australian Emassy in Washington of the misleading nature of the advertisement and to ask it to pass on this information in the appropriate quarters. 
Warnock Report on Special Educational Needs  (Question No. 2884) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) I am informed that my Department received a copy of a research proposal entitled ( Causes of Otitis Media in Aboriginal Children of the Northern Territory from the Secretary of the Medical Research in Aborigines Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH and MRC) on 28 October 1976. One of the principal investigators had briefly foreshadowed the proposal in a letter dated 17 April 1975 to the Department. The proposal was discussed between representatives of my Department, the  Chairman  and Secretary of the Medical Research in Aborigines Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical research Council and the principal investigator mentioned above in Canberra on 17 December 1976. In a letter dated 23 March 1 977 the Secretary of the Sub-committee informed the Department of the outcome of the Sub-committee's assessment and enclosed a revised proposal. 
At the meeting on 17 December 1976 the question of Aboriginal community involvement in the proposed project was discussed in a general way. The investigators were aware of the need to consult, and obtain the consent of the community. 
I understand that the research will be carried out in close co-operation with the Northern Territory Department of Health, which will take into account other surveys and evaluations aimed at assessing different methods of improving environmental factors in health and methods of health care delivery and administration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes the meeting was held as indicated. 
The meeting reviewed the impact and effectiveness of the CYSS guidelines in the light of reports prepared by the individual State Committees. In the preparation of those reports, State Committees invited views and suggestions on the guidelines from those involved in CYSS at the local level. Overall the response to this invitation was good although there was no feedback at all from many projects. The nature of the response was quite varied. Whilst it is true that there was dissatisfaction reported in some cases there were also expressions of support for the guidelines in their present form. 
In view of the fact that there had been some criticism of the guidelines the Chairmen have accordingly made recommendations to me on those matters. In some instances changes have been recommended with the overall purpose of presenting CYSS in such a way as to permit maximum flexibility in meeting the needs of unemployed youth, keeping in mind the fact that it is primarily a manpower programme. 
I am currently reviewing the guidelines in the light of the comments which emerged from that meeting. 
-I can say that the first figure quoted by the honourable gentleman is correct. I will check the second figure and let him know. As to his general thesis, there are clear signs within the community of a growing number of civilian employees being taken up, in particular by private industry. I refer to the Australian Bureau of Statistics' most recently issued civilian employees series, which shows that on a seasonally adjusted basis the increase in December was 20,400 persons- the sixth consecutive monthly increase. That followed an increase of 17,000 in November. The total civilian employment was 4,757,400 at the end of December- the highest seasonally adjusted figure since October 1974. The increase for the six months from June to December 1978 was the largest increase since the 6 months of June to December 1973, whilst the December figure was 57,000 higher than that for June 1978, of which 33,000 was contributed by the private sector. 
We on this side of the House recognise that the answer to the employment situation in Australia is growth in the private sector- growth of employment opportunities and growth of jobs in the private sector. All our economic strategy is directed towards controlling and bringing down the rate of inflation so that the private sector can expand and provide jobs for those people who are coming into the work force and in order to cut down the level of unemployment. With those figures behind us- I do not wish to exaggerate and the Government does not wish to exaggerate, but to express the situation realistically- I think that the Government can properly tell the people that there are hopeful signs of an improving economy and an improving employment picture. The adverse trends which we have seen for so long- since the days of the former Labor Government- and which we were left with when we came into office, have started to turn around. I hope and I expect that they will progressively get better. 
I have noticed that some members of the Opposition try to inflate the unemployment figures by referring to the hidden unemployed. We all know that the Australian Bureau of Statistics adopts internationally accepted standards of measuring the number of unemployed in the community. On that basis, in February 1979, the estimated number of unemployed persons looking for full time work was 381,100 or 7 per cent of the full time labour force. Nothing that the honourable gentleman says can take anything away from the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures. We also know that for a variety of reasons, personal, family, social and economic, some persons who have not been in the work force for a long time may want to come back into the work force, or people who have been in the work force, again for the variety of reasons that I have mentioned, may decide not to try to obtain work. I think the Opposition would be much better off adopting the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures as the standard measure of unemployment in Australia. 
Like the honourable member for Gellibrand, the Leader of the Opposition is attempting to inflate the measure of unemployment within the community. I say again to the Leader of the Opposition that although the participation rates are important in assessing the character and structure of the labour market they do not represent the level of unemployment in the community as measured by the internationally accepted standard used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The Government recognises that as economic recovery gathers momentum there is likely to be an increase in participation rates because more people will be attracted to try to obtain work. That is one of the statistics which we will be looking at very carefully during this year because it will affect not only the level of the growth in employment but also the level of unemployment. 
As has been noted in the latest statistics put out by the Bureau and the Commonwealth Employment Service, overtime on a seasonally adjusted basis worked in January 1979 increased by 0.12 hours from 2.99 to 3.1 1 hours, the first month in which seasonally adjusted overtime has been in excess of three hours since September 1974. The Opposition cannot gainsay that fact. That indicates that there is increased production by the existing work force in our factories and in our workshops. As I have said before, we will be watching very carefully to see when that increased productivity turns into increased employment. In other words, the point is expected to come some time during this year, with continuing recovery in the economy, when employers will need to put on more employees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The most recent statistics which the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) has available on average income from all sources relate to the year 1973-74. However, estimates of the average weekly earnings of full-time employees in August 1978 are available. The estimates, which are preliminary and subject to revision, are as follows: 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
Yes. 
and (3) I am informed that no Australian official was involved in the case to which the honourable member has referred. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised by the Public Service Board that statistical collections for the numbers of staff on long-term sick leave commenced in 1975. Statistics relating to staff on sick leave before that date were not centrally recorded and maintained. Having regard to the various changes in administrative arrangements over the past few years, it is doubtful if at this stage departments which have had major administrative changes would be able to reconstruct their records accurately to enable comparative statistics for years prior to 1 975 to be determined. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
) and (2) No. As indicated in  Mr Viner  's reply to Question No. 2289 (see  Hansard,  18 November 1978, page 3007),  Mr Martin  did not promise or threaten 'financial strangulation' of the Aboriginal Lands Trust at the meeting in May between officers of the Department and of the Lands Trust. I am informed that  Mr Martin  did comment at that meeting that the flow of paper work from the Trust to his Area Officers could delay the dispatch of grants to Aboriginal organisations. When the Administrator of the Trust,  Mr Ian  Kingsley, apparently misunderstood  Mr Martin's  comments,  Mr Martin  explained and I understand that  Mr Kingsley  accepted the explanation. 
Yes. Some communities are able to meet recurrent costs from rentals charged. In all other cases, grants are being made either directly or to the Trust to help meet these costs. 
No. The figures cited for expenditure on reserves per dwelling are not accurate. My Department calculates that the average expenditure under its 'town management and public utilities' program per dwelling on reserves managed by the Aboriginal Lands Trust this year is approximately $1,200, compared with approximately $1,650 per dwelling on reserves where the housing is managed by Aboriginal organisations. The difference reflects the fact that there is more new construction being undertaken by Aboriginal housing associations on reserves where they are responsible for the housing and this entails expenditure on the provision of sewerage, water and electricity services under the 'town management and public utilities ' program. 
Yes. 
I understand that the Trust resolved on 23 November to 'cut off all consultations with the officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs concerning financial matters until such time as the Aboriginal Lands Trust receives a meaningful reply to its request to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for its full funding program for New South Wales'. The Department remained willing at all times to continue discussions. I met with representatives of the Trust on 7 December and again on 16 January, when the Trust agreed to resume discussions. 
(a) All communities on land held by the Trust have the option of managing their own affairs or having the Trust manage them. 
The arrangements for transferring responsibility from the Trust to communities have been discussed with the communities and with the Trust and continuing close consultation will be maintained. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 )  Aboriginal Newsletter  is produced by the Department using items originating from many sources around Australia, including Aboriginal organisations. It is distributed to Aboriginal organisations and communities and to other interested in Aboriginal affairs. 
The Department welcomes items relating to the activities of such bodies as the National Aboriginal Conference, the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies and the Council for Aboriginal Development, and arrangements could be made to distribute information material from those bodies with the newsletter. The Charter of the National Aboriginal Conference provides for the Executive of the Conference to prepare and distribute a newsletter. I am informed that the Executive plans to produce four issues a year, the first to appear within the next few months. The Institute of Aboriginal Studies publishes a Newsletter twice a year. 
On 6 March 1979  (Hansard,  page 607) the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked me, as Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral, a question without notice concerning proceedings in the social security conspiracy trial. The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Three of the defendants in what has become known as the social security frauds matter, to whom legal aid has been granted by the Australian Legal Aid Office, have taken proceedings in the Supreme Court of New South Wales for certain orders in respect of certain rulings made by the Magistrate in the preliminary proceedings. The rulings affect all of the defendants in the preliminary proceedings. 
The prosecution has agreed that the proceedings before the Supreme Court are to be regarded as representative proceedings. If the orders sought are made by the Supreme Court, the prosecution has undertaken that they will have effect in relation to all defendants in the preliminary proceedings should they so wish. For this reason, there is no purpose to be served by the other defendants' instituting similar proceedings. Accordingly, and in terms of the guidelines under which the Australian Legal Aid Office operates, legal aid has not been provided by the Office for the purpose of the institution of those similar proceedings by any of the other defendants. 
The Attorney-General informs me that he is unaware of any instance of interference by the Australian Legal Aid Office with the conduct of individual cases by private practitioners to the detriment of the defendants. The Australian Legal Aid Office, which is providing legal aid to a number of the defendants, is wholly independent of and separate from the prosecution. 
Royal Commission on Electoral Boundaries 
-On 22 February 1979, the honourable member for Hunter asked me the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether he can say what were the costs to the Australian taxpayer of the appearance of the honourable member for Fadden, the honourable member for the Gold Coast- I mean McPherson- and  Senator Withers  at the recent McGregor royal commission of enquiry into allegations of electoral boundary rigging. Can the Minister say what was the anticipated cost saved in not calling the Prime Minister before the commission? 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth has paid the following legal costs incurred by the honourable members of Fadden and McPherson in respect of their appearance before the Royal Commission: 
From time to time commentators on the employment situation suggest that early retirement would lead to an increase in the availability of jobs for those who are presently seeking them. I notice in particular in the honourable member's question that he puts a condition on early retirement, that is, that the employer should agree that he would employ an additional person when the present employee retires early. That is a new suggestion. I have not heard it before. I will put it to study. Obviously the implications of the honourable member's proposition concern not only my own Department but also other departments, notably the Department of Social Security. I would expect also that the Department of Finance would have an interest. 
-I am aware of the fact that a claim has been made by the Central Land Council to the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. Obviously it is a matter of considerable interest and importance to the people of the Northern Territory as well as to the rest of Australia. I can inform the honourable gentleman that the Commonwealth will be making a submission to the Aboriginal Land Commissioner in relation to the claim. In accordance with past practice, it will present factual information to the Commissioner, including information relating to the legal status of the park. It ought to be observed that there has been a declaration under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act of Uluru as a national park. 
I ask for the indulgence of the House to provide some information in answer to part of a question asked of me by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  on Tuesday, 20 March. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner on the Alyawarra and Kaititja land claim, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  concerning the report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Government's response to the report of the Joint Committee on Publications on its inquiry into the purpose, scope and distribution of the Parliamentary Papers Series. I seek leave to have the text incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-The handling of solicitors' trust accounts in New South Wales is of course entirely a matter for the Government of New South Wales and the laws of that State. I will refer the question raised by the honourable member concerning the legal profession in the Australian Capital Territory to the AttorneyGeneral to give him a considered reply. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of the Government's responses to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs' report on annual reports and the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment 's report on annual reports. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As indicated by  Mr Viner  in answer to Question No. 1812  (Hansard  of 16 November 1978, page 3006), my Department has not provided any funds directly to the Furneaux Fishing Processing Company, which is the only Aboriginal fish processing organisation on Flinders Island. To the best of my knowldge, no other Commonwealth Government funds have been provided to the organisation. 
Funds provided to the Flinders Island Community Association as detailed in answer to Question No. 1812 included $100,000 for the purchase by the Association of a majority shareholding in the fish processing company. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
and (2) The recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships concerning rape and other sexual offences have been considered by a Working Party comprising officers of the Attorney-General's Depanment, the Depanment of Home Affairs, the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission and the Australian Capital Territory Police. Having considered the Working Party's report I have asked my Depanment to look further into a number of aspects. 
Royal Commission on Human Relationships (Question No. 3193) 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Funds will be made available to the Indulkana Community in June 1979 to enable it to assume responsibility from the Department of Community Welfare on 1 July 1 979. 
Yes. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. The Yarrabah Council wrote on 30 January making a formal request for a declaration under Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1978. The Council also asked that the Minister try to negotiate with the Queensland Government a form of land tenure for the Yarrabah Community Council. 
Discussions have been initiated with the Queensland Government. Officials of the two Governments are having exploratory talks to be followed by discussion between Ministers. 
Further to my statement on 12 April 1978, for the information of honourable members I present the Government's additional responses to the recommendations of the report of the Standing Committee on Expenditure on Australia's overseas representation and I seek leave to have the text incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Responses to the Recommendations of the Report on Australia 's Overseas Representation by the Standing Committee on Expenditure 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill makes provision for payments in lieu of long leave not taken upon the death in office or the retirement of a justice of the High Court. The payments proposed to be made under the Bill are the same as those that have been made in the past pursuant to specific authorisations by Cabinet. The Government believes that payments to High Court justices such as those dealt with in this Bill should not depend upon the exercise of executive discretion but on legislation. This Bill is intended to put the matter on a proper basis and to honour undertakings given by the present Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and his predecessors to a Senate estimates committee that legislation would be introduced to authorise those payments. In a companion Bill, the Judges (Long Leave Payments) Bill, identical provisions will be made in respect of the judges of other federal courts. It is appropriate, however, that the provisions for justices of the High Court be made in a separate Bill because of the special position occupied by that Court which is the court established under the Constitution whereas other federal courts are created by the Commonwealth Parliament. 
The Bill provides for the payment on the retirement of a justice who has completed not less than 10 years' service, or on the death of a justice irrespective whether he has completed 10 years' service, of an amount calculated at the rate of 5.2 weeks for each completed year of qualifying judicial service or an amount equivalent to one year's salary whichever is the lesser. If after ten years a justice retires or dies in office without having taken any long leave, he, his widow or dependants, as the case may be, shall be paid a sum equal to the amount of one year's salary as at the date of his retirement or death. If, however, he has taken some long leave, on retirement or death an amount is payable calculated on the basis of 5.2 weeks for each year of his service less the period of long leave actually taken. The maximum payable is the equivalent of his annual salary at the date of retirement or death. I stress that in no circumstances will a payment under the Bill exceed an amount equal to a justice 's annual salary. If on the other hand a justice should die in office before he completes 10 years' service an amount is payable calculated on the basis of 5.2 weeks for each year of his service. When a justice retires the payment is, of course, to be made to him. If, however, a justice dies in office payment is made to the spouse or, if there is none, to his dependants, or in any other case to the legal personal representative. 
The Bill also provides that where a payment is made to dependants of a deceased justice the amount payable shall be distributed between or among those dependants as directed by the Attorney-General. There is already a similar discretion in the Judges' Pensions Act 1968 in respect of the distribution of a judge's pension and such a provision is reasonable in legislation dealing with payment in lieu of untaken leave so that account can be taken of the particular circumstances of individual dependants. Finally the Bill provides that, where a person who would otherwise be the recipient of a payment is under a legal disability, the Attorney-General may pay an amount payable under the Bill to a trustee. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a companion Bill to the High Court Justices (Long Leave Payments) Bill 1979 and makes similar provision for payments in lieu of long leave not taken upon the death in office or the retirement of a Federal or Territorial judge or a person who, by virtue of an Act, has the same status as a judge. The reasons for the introduction of the legislation and the relevant provisions of the Bill are the same as those referred to in my speech on the companion Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-On behalf of the AttorneyGeneral I can inform the honourable gentleman that neither the Attorney-General nor his Department has seen the proposed New South Wales Bill, nor has the Commonwealth been consulted concerning the establishment of the proposed legal aid commission in New South Wales. I note from public comments made by the  President  of the Law Society of New South Wales,  Mr Mackay,  that he is concerned that a New South Wales commission would be under ministerial control and would not be independent of government, as is the case in all other States. That is a matter for regret. It seems that the New South Wales Government, notwithstanding that the Premier is a lawyer, does not have sufficient confidence in its own legal profession to provide legal aid to those who need it. I do not think any government should underestimate the value over many, many years of the services provided by the legal profession- in early days completely freely and in latter days under subsidies by governments. I think it is to be regretted also, if I may say so to the honourable member who asked the question, that the New South Wales Government seems to be moving not in a spirit of co-operation but in a spirit that is quite the opposite. That is in contrast to the way in which the Commonwealth has approached this whole question of legal aid throughout Australia. It always has been on the basis of the closest co-operation with the legal profession and the closest co-operation and consultation with all State Governments. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim annual report of the Legal Aid Commission of the Australian Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
-I find the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in support of his motion to be completely lacking in substance. 
The honourable gentleman was, if I might say so, haranguing the House rather than providing it with something better, as I would have expected of him on a subject which is of considerable importance to Australia as a nation, and to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders as people. Let me straight away, in answer to the honourable gentleman's comments regarding the Commonwealth's submission to the Queensland Aboriginal and Islanders Commission- ask leave to table it. 
I might even ask for leave to incorporate the submission in  Hansard  if the Opposition would like me to. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

That will show the earnestness of the Commonwealth in its approach to the attainment of human rights for all people in Australia, particularly with regard to Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. One would think, from listening to the honourable gentleman, that the Commonwealth had never legislated for Aboriginals or Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland. The situation is quite to the contrary. The honourable gentleman's own government in 1975, when it was in office, passed the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975. When the honourable member, in debate, says that State officials can order individuals to leave a reserve, or can preclude them for entering it, he really is not giving enough credit to the legislation of his own government. That Act seeks to entrench certain basic human rights, in favour of Aboriginal and Islanders in Queensland. 
That legislation is available to every individual who wants to use it to support his personal rights or defend himself against any administrative or legal action brought against them contrary thereto. The honourable gentleman interjects and says that the Commonwealth has not done anything to support or enforce that legislation. Let me give him one simple but graphic illustration of what the Commonwealth Government has done. Recently, a number of Aboriginals claimed that they were underpaid as a result of a discriminatory low wage, paid to them because they were Aboriginals, for work done for the Queensland Department through the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander advancement. Their case was taken up by the Austraiian Workers Union and was prosecuted before the appropriate industrial tribunal in Queensland. The Commonwealth declared its intention to intervene on the side of those Aboriginals, to plead this particular Federal Act. The case was adjourned and then the parties, the particular Aboriginal who was the plaintiff representing all of them, the Queensland Government and the Queensland director of Aboriginal and Islander advancement settled the case out of court 
I would judge that the reason it was settled out of court was so that a court would not rule on this particular legislation. It shows the force of this particular law, which can be used to support the personal rights of individuals. The honourable gentleman has also referred to Aurukun and Mornington Island and has sought to throw cold water on what has been achieved there. I will always stand in this House, and in any public forum, and uphold what was done by this Government when I was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. Their reserve had been abolished by an Act of the Queensland Government. We had passed the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1978. We sought to obtain from the Queensland Government assurances that it would provide for the Aboriginal residents real self-management and real security of tenure for the two reserves. The result was the passage through the Queensland Parliament of Act No. 6 of 1978 for the creation of a local authority area at Aurukun and Mornington Island and to authorise the granting of long term leases to secure the traditional rights of the Aboriginal residents. I am pleased to advise that the leases for both those communities were granted on 1 8 January this year. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I require the  Deputy  Leader ofthe Opposition to remain silent. He addressed the House in silence and I ask .him to accord the same privilege to the Minister. 
Recently, local authority elections were held at both Aurukun and Mornington Island and new councils were elected. I am informed that almost all of the former councillors in both places were re-elected, including both former chairmen. At Mornington Island this Saturday and at Aurukun this Sunday, the Queensland Minister for Local Government,  Mr Hinze,  accompanied by the Commonwealth Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  will inaugurate the new councils pursuant to those elections under the authority of the Queensland legislation to which I have referred. As from the time of that inauguration, the administrators will cease their functions and the councils will be fully self-governing authorities in their own rights. Therefore, the twin goals ofthe Commonwealth when we embarked upon consultation with the Queensland Government leading to the Queensland legislation No. 6 of 1978 have been achieved. Self-management has been achieved in a real way which no other Aboriginal or Torres Strait Island community in Queensland has achieved. The residents of Aurukun and Mornington Island have security of tenure for their land and have been granted their traditional rights in a way which no other Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander community in Queensland has achieved. We are at the threshold of a continuing movement in Queensland to achieve these twin goals for all Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. 
I have been advised that  Mr Hinze  and the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  on 4 July and 11 August, assured the people at Aurukun that their leases would be for the initial period of 50 years and for a further period of 50 years. So in effect they have a lease and security of tenure for their land for 100 years. I have also been advised that details of the lease to which I have referred have been incorporated in recent amendments to the Queensland Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act, which is the legislation to which I have referred. I would have thought that the honourable gentleman could have looked that up for himself and obtained all the necessary details. This progress has been achieved as a result of co-operation with the Queensland Government by standing firm in a spirit of co-operation and not one of confrontation, as the Opposition would have us do. 
I will refer to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders on Queensland Reserves. I refer to page 43 of the report. As I understand the gravamen of the Committee's recommendations, it thought that, because there was no prospect of co-operation between the Commonwealth Government and the State Government, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act of this Parliament was not likely to be effective. The report states in paragraph 73: 
Such legislation may well have its greatest impact in overriding provisions of State legislation which diminish powers of self-management and control. 
That is exactly what the legislation passed by this Parliament does. The report continues: 
Furthermore, such legislation has the capacity to be entirely effective when enacted as part of a co-operative arrangement with the relevant State. 
I am glad to hear the honourable gentleman affirm those observations. More particularly, I am pleased to inform him and the House that at this very moment discussions are going on in a spirit of co-operation between the Queensland and Commonwealth governments with regard to the implementation of that selfmanagement legislation. These discussions result from a request made to the Commonwealth by the community at Yarrabah to be granted selfmanagement under the Commonwealth Act and also from a request of the Commonwealth Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to negotiate with the Queensland Government for land tenure similar to the tenure that has been obtained in the Northern Territory. The Minister commenced negotiations with his counterpart in Queensland following communications between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Queensland Premier. As a result, communications have been taking place between officials as a prelude to further Ministerial discussions. Talks were held yesterday and are going on today in Brisbane in response to the request of the Yarrabah people. 
Is is not only for them that these discussions are proceeding but for aU Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders living on reserves in Queensland. The object of these discussions is to see whether, in a spirit of co-operation, a legal and administrative framework might be worked out covering all reserves so that there will be a continuing forward movement on the basis of the Commonwealth legislation and of any amendments to the Queensland legislation or further legislation which the Queensland Government might wish to pass to give effect to these twin goals of selfmanagement and security of tenure. So, it cannot be said that the Commonwealth is not alert in responding to the aspirations of the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders of Queensland. It can, in fact, be said that through the Commonwealth Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  these aspirations are being pursued actively and in their interests. 
As I have shown by the incorporation of my submission to the Queensland inquiry into the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Acts, we have a clear charter which guides us in the pursuit of our efforts for the Aboriginal and Islander people of Queensland. The advice that I have received from my colleague is that the discussions that are under way are proceeding very well and we would expect that they will be fruitful in the end and to the advantage of the Aboriginal and Islander people. What has happened,  Mr Speaker,  is that the Commonwealth selfmanagement legislation has been a catalyst for the advance of human rights for the Aboriginal and Islander people of Queensland. The Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act 1978 might very well be regarded as the flag flying at the masthead of human rights in Queensland. As I have said, those two communities, as a result of Commonwealth action, now enjoy rights which other Aboriginals and Islanders in Queensland do not enjoy. But because of the lead given by these two communities the others may well expect that some time in the future they too will enjoy them. 
I refer also to the fact that the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission is active in Queensland in acquiring property on behalf of the Aboriginals. For example, at Murray Upper a freehold farm area and some forest leases have been purchased, and at Daintree a freehold farm has been purchased. I am advised that The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  will be presenting the tide to the freehold property to the people in that community in the very near future. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill is to rationalise and co-ordinate provisions relating to the redeployment and retirement of staff in Commonwealth employment. It might be regarded as a codification of those provisions. It emphasises the efficient and economical use of staffing resources by way of redeployment of staff who can be used more effectively elsewhere; retirement of staff both voluntarily and by initiative of management; and greater mobility of staff. It specifies minimum and maximum ages for retirement. The Bill's coverage will include departments and authorities staffed under the Public Service Act and such other authorities prescribed in regulations with their agreement. The arrangements envisaged by the Bill will enable better management of personnel across Commonwealth employment, provide greater scope for permanent heads and other chief executives to utilise and manage their staff more effectively and overall further improve the efficiency of Commonwealth bodies. In addition to these advantages the arrangements will create opportunities for promotion and transfer for existing staff, and new employment opportunities in the Commonwealth sector. 
The Government placed before the House similar legislation in 1976 on the basis that it would not proceed past the introduction stage until there had been an adequate opportunity for debate and for consultation between the Public Service Board and staff organisations. In the event, the Bill lapsed on the prorogation of Parliament in 1977. The Bill before the House today has been prepared in the light of the views expressed on the 1976 Bill and following a number of discussions between the Public Service Board and peak employee councils, particularly over recent months. The Bill includes a number of changes to which I will return later. 
The Government's policy that maximum superannuation age retirement benefits should only be payable on retirement at age 65 remains unchanged. The Superannuation Act that was passed by the Parliament in 1976 provides for reduced rates of pension to be payable to staff who retire other than on invalidity grounds at an earlier age in accordance with their conditions of service. This Bill provides as a condition of service that staff who no longer wish to work in Government service may voluntarily retire after reaching age 55 with the appropriately reduced pension. The Bill does not change in any way the benefit structure of the Superannuation Act 1976. 
Staff who choose to retire voluntarily would receive a reduced annual superannuation benefit as compared with those retiring at age 65. For example, pursuant to the Superannuation Act 1976, an officer retiring at age 65 with 30 years' contributory service receives a standard pension equivalent to 50 per cent of final salary while an officer with 30 years' service retiring voluntarily at age 55 would receive standard pension equivalent to 36 per cent of final salary. An officer with 20 years' service retiring at age 65 would receive 40 per cent of final salary and 28.8 per cent on retirement at age 55. 
The Public Service Act presently includes in sections 20, 67 and 85 provisions enabling management, that is, the Public Service Board in conjunction with the relevant permanent head, to redeploy or retire excess officers, inefficient or incapacitated officers, and officers who have attained age 60. The administration of these provisions has not been fully effective because they do not provide an adequate legal framework, nor do they contain protection of the rights of staff against arbitrary action. The approach to management-initiated redeployment and retirement contained in this Bill is based on a revised legal framework directed towards ensuring the most efficient and economical use of staff in Commonwealth employment. By emphasising redeployment as a primary step the Bill recognises that there is considerable scope within the Commonwealth sector for improved utilisation of staff by facilitating the movement of staff within and between departments and authorities to jobs that are more appropriate to the talents of the individuals. 
Where there are staff in the Public Service or in prescribed authorities whose services cannot be used efficiently by the department or authority in which they are employed, whether on grounds of excess numbers, ill health or 'for any other prescribed reason', for example relating to efficiency, the department or authority is required to declare such staff to the Public Service Board for redeployment. The Board will be required to ensure consistent and co-ordinated action across departments and prescribed authorities and to seek to redeploy staff across those areas of Commonwealth employment covered by the Act. If redeployment cannot be achieved the Board will issue a certificate to that effect and the employing department or authority will take retirement action. 
We have decided that staff between the ages of 55 and 60 years who are retired at the initiative of management 'for any other prescribed reason' will, in addition to the existing superannuation benefit, receive a special benefit of two months' salary for each year of service foregone to age 60- that is 10 months' salary on retirement at age 55 reducing on a graduated basis to 2 months' salary on retirement at age 59. Where an officer is paid a superannuation pension this benefit may be converted into a pension. This special benefit does not apply to staff who are excess to requirements or who are retired on ill health grounds for whom separate provisions already exist. For superannuation contributors in these circumstances provision is made under the Superannuation Act. Furthermore, in the case of excess staff the Public Service Arbitrator's Decision No. 509 of 1 977 applies. 
To assist in implementing the provisions of the legislation the Bill requires the Board to issue administrative procedures concerning indentification of staff to be redeployed and principles for redeploying staff. Such procedures and principles will be published in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette.  These procedures and principles together with the appeal provisions to which I will refer shortly will offer the protection to the rights of individual officers which does not exist under the Public Service Act. This will ensure that arbitrary or capricious action cannot be taken against officers; they will receive fair treatment under the legislation. 
I mentioned earlier that the current Bill contains changes in a number of aspects from the 1976 Bill. I also mentioned discussions undertaken with the peak employee councils since 1976. The first two of the changes which I will now outline have arisen from these discussions. 
The former Bill provided for staff to be indentified for redeployment and retirement 'for any other reasons ' in addition to the specified reasons of excess numbers and ill health. The Bill now requires 'any other reasons' to be prescribed in regulations. Before such regulations are made the Public Service Board is required to consult with staff organisations on the proposed regulation and to report to the Governor-General on these consultations. There will be continuing discussions with the staff organisations on the operation of the legislation. 
The Government has agreed to include in this legislation the establishment of an appeal tribunal to review declarations for redeployment and consequent actions of re-deployment or certification for retirement. In addition, the tribunal will be empowered to report on the appropriateness of the procedures determined by the Board. The tribunal is bound to have regard to the same factors in considering an appeal as was the original decision-maker. Under this Bill the tribunal will have a power to review management decisions and either confirm them or have them reconsidered by management. Unlike the 1976 Bill the tribunal will only have power to vary original decisions in cases where it has been requested to join together staff in a particular category who are excess to requirements. This could occur where for example 10 out of 20 staff in a particular category are no longer required. Where an appeal or a number of appeals is lodged the Tribunal may review on request the whole of the particular category against the procedures laid down in accordance with the provisions of the Bill. The process in these particular circumstances will ensure all involved have a fair hearing and will avoid unnecessary delay in finalising any appeals. I would emphasise that this provision can only operate where staff is identified for excess numbers reasons. 
Consistent with the responsibilities given to the Board by this legislation for redeployment of staff arising from excess numbers situations, the current Bill empowers the Board where reasonable and practicable to place such excess staff, after consultation, in departments and prescribed authorities. It has been necessary for the continuing efficient operation of departments to transfer officers of the Service to the unattached list pending retirement for health reasons. This allows consequential staffing action to proceed. To give this practice a sound legislative basis appropriate provision has been included in this BUI. I mentioned earlier that the Bill can be applied to areas of Government employment outside the Public Service by regulation with its agreement. However, in this context I should mention that it is the Government's policy that both voluntary retirement and management-initiated retirement are inextricably linked. This is reflected by the inclusion of both measures in this Bill. The Government would not accept the application of age 55 voluntary retirement to the staff of a particular authority without it taking up the other measure. 
By way of summary, the legislation confers on staff an option to retire voluntarily from age 55. The legislation also provides a more effective basis for management-initiated redeployment and retirement in the interests of more efficient and economical staffing. An appeal Tribunal is established to ensure staff receive fair treatment. Finally, it enables the payment of a special benefit to those who are retired between the ages of 55 and 60 for reasons other than excess to requirements or ill health. I, therefore, commend the Bill to the House. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) It is correct that salaries of Ministers have increased less rapidly than the salaries of Permanent Heads in the period 1970 to 1978. 
The information on allowances (in the case of Ministers, special allowance) was provided to enable a comparison of increases in allowances as well as salaries, lt was thought that the honourable member would be interested to note that allowances for Permanent Heads have increased over the period by 79 per cent whereas the increases in special allowances for Ministers have ranged from 20 per cent to 43 per cent. 
Yes. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. 
Yes. 
to (6) With regard to both the Pilbara and Kimberley areas of Western Australia,  Mr Butcher  indicated that in his opinion Aboriginal population data were inaccurate. 
The population data for both  Mr Boundy's  and  Mr Butcher's  report are based on information from two different departments closely involved with Aboriginals and both reports provide estimates in excess of the 1 976 Census figure of 6,349 Aboriginal people in the Kimberleys. However, the statistical methodology employed differs from that employed by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. In addition there are inconsistencies in  Mr Boundy's  methodology which give rise to reservations as to the reliability of his estimates.  Mr Butcher  pointed out in his report that forward planning for both the Pilbara and Kimberley regions is necessary and that correct population data are essential for this. My Department is now gathering population data based on each Aboriginal community or group in these areas and forward planning will be based on this information. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question, which was supplied to me by the Australian Statistician, is as follows: 
1 ) Estimates of the number of discouraged job-seekers in Australia were obtained from surveys conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in November 1975 and May 1977. Results were published in 'Persons Not in the Labour 
Force' (ABS Catalogue No. 6220.0). Discouraged jobseekers were defined as persons not in the labour force who wanted a job but were not looking for work because they believed that they would not be able to find a job for any of the following reasons: they were considered too young or too old by employers; language or racial difficulties; they lacked the necessary training, skills or experience; or there were no jobs available in their locality or line of work. The estimated total number in November 1975 was 33,800 and in May 1977 65,500. The ABS is planning to collect further information on discouraged job-seekers in March and September 1 979. 
This information is not available from surveys which have been conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) No. Officers of my Department have confirmed advice from Aboriginal Hostels Ltd that buildings are not in a derelict state. To the contrary Aboriginal Hostels Ltd have advised that renovations to the buildings are almost completed. 
Aboriginal Hostels Ltd have advised that of the total estimated expenditure of $116,152 on renovations, architect's fees comprised $5,778 (or approximately 5 per cent). 
3 ) The hostel will be officially opened by  Senator Bonner  on Friday, 27 April 1 979. 
(a) and (b) No. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Three. An additional three have received apprenticeships under the NEAT Scheme. 
) (a) (i) Electricity Trust of South Australia, (ii) Department of Highways, (iii) Department of Administrative Services. ( b) 1 fitter and turner; 2  motor  mechanics. 
(a) One. (b) Two. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report of the joint Commonwealth/State Working Party on Manpower Planning was presented to the September 1978 Conference of Commonwealth and State Labour Ministers. At this Conference it was agreed by the Ministers for Labour that the Working Party Report should be re-examined following publication of the Report of the Study Group on Structural Adjustment under the chairmanship of  Sir John  Crawford, and the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training under the chairmanship of Professor B. R. Williams. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has not curtailed the resources of the Victorian Aboriginal Health Service. 
The original allocation to this Service in 1978-79 was $273,000 compared with $241,000 in 1977-78. I have since authorised the provision of an additional $20,000 as a special release to assist the Service to overcome its financial difficulties. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (5) As indicated in the statements by  Mr Viner  on 26 October 1978 to the House of Representatives, the Government is seeking comment from Aboriginal bodies such as the National Aboriginal Conference as well as the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the Aboriginal Loans Commission before legislation is prepared for consideration by the Parliament, and the Council for Aboriginal Development is being formally consulted on the principles to be embodied in the legislation. Submissions have been received from all these bodies, and consultations are continuing but no final decisions have yet been taken. 
It is hoped that legislation can be prepared for introduction into the Parliament during the Budget Sittings. 
I can supply the honourable member and the House with further information because the Australian Bureau of Statistics today released the civilian employee figures for February 1 979. 1 am quite sure that the honourable gentleman who asked the question will be pleased with the figures. They show that the number of civilian employees in February 1979 was estimated at 4,753,100 persons, an increase of 31,700-12,200 males and 19,500 femalesover the January 1979 figures. There are two aspects of this matter about which I am sure the House will be pleased to hear. In seasonally adjusted terms this represents an increase of 1,900. This is the eighth consecutive monthly increase in seasonally adjusted terms. The number has increased by 48, 100 since June 1978. Most of the increase in original figures occurred in the private sector. The figure is 20,000. This was due mainly to a seasonal increase of 11,300 in the manufacturing sector. At least we on this side of the House realise that, if there is to be growth in employment which will not only satisfy those who are coming on to the employment market each year but also provide work for those presently unemployed, we must have growth in the private sector. Whereas for so many years since the Whitlam era the manufacturing sector has been depressed, in recent months we have seen a significant growth in employment in the manufacturing sector. 
I have asked the Public Service Board to give me a report on progress in supplying those training positions to which the honourable member has referred. When I obtain that information I will let him have it also. 
I am sure that all members of this House will be pleased with the 12 men and women who have been chosen by the Government to form the first National Youth Advisory Group. The seven young men and five young women represent Australia geographically, ethnically and racially. They have been chosen because of the personal contribution which they can make to the well-being of the youth of Australia. The honourable gentleman should not feel that because the Group has no member from the Australian Capital Territory the ACT will not be given due attention in its affairs. After all, all the members are Australians regardless of the part of Australia from which they come. I have spoken to the  Chairman, Mr Graham  Allan, who is approaching his task with great enthusiasm and great confidence that the Group can make a real contribution to the future of Australia through the youth of Australia. I would like to feel that the honourable gentleman will give the Group every support he can. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission located at Lucas Heights in the electoral division of Hughes will employ twenty (20) of the additional 230 apprentices. 
The CSIRO Division of Fisheries and Oceanography located at Cronulla in the electoral division of Cook will employ one ( I ) of the additional 230 apprentices. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Six young Aboriginals from the Electoral Division of Grey are currently receiving assistance as apprentices under provisions of the National Employment and Training System (NEAT). Three of these are apprenticed under a special public sector training provision of NEAT, a strand of the Government's National Employment Strategy for Aboriginals. 
2 ) The establishments are- 
The Electricity Trust of South Australia, Port Augusta, The Highways Department, Adelaide, The Commonwealth Department of Administrative Services, Adelaide, and two private firms in Ceduna. 
(a) One, (b) three. 
Motor mechanic- 2, diesel mechanic- 1, boilermaker- I , carpenter- 2. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2 ) The supply of accountants in Australia varies according to the level of experience involved. According to occupational surveys conducted by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs there is presently a slight oversupply of inexperienced new accountancy graduates. On the other hand there is a moderate undersupply of accountants with 3 or more years experience. Because of the introduction of new courses and the expansion of existing ones the supply of new graduates in accounting is expected to expand over the next 2-3 years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not yet possible to indicate what effect the proposed Voluntary Youth Community Service Scheme might have upon the Community Youth Support Scheme. Should the Government decide to introduce measures to foster the undertaking of Voluntary Community Service by unemployed young people, then its decision will ensure that the new measures are appropriately co-ordinated with existing manpower programs, including the Community Youth Support Scheme. 
I am quite sure that the Attorney-General approved the appointment of  Mr Rofe  in the Greek case for very sound professional reasons, having regard to the skill and competence of  Mr Rofe,  and also the junior counsel. 
The honourable gentleman, being a solicitor, knows the professional basis upon which counsel is briefed. However, I will refer the question to the Attorney-General and obtain a detailed answer for the honourable member. 
in reply- In my reply to honourable members who have spoken in this debate might I remind them very briefly of what these Bills are all about. They are to honour an undertaking given to the Senate by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and certain of his predecessors, including those in previous governments- I ask the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to bear that in mind- that payment to judges in lieu of long leave not taken would be put on a statutory basis. The reason for this is that there has been an absence of any such statutory basis and payment has been totally dependent upon Executive discretion. The Bills authorise payment in lieu of long leave not taken either on the retirement of a judge who has completed at least ten years' service or on the death of a judge, whether or not he has completed ten years' service, of an amount calculated in accordance with sub-clause 4 (2) in each Bill. 
I remind the House that the basic entitlement of a judge to which these Bills apply- that a judge must serve ten years to be entitled to one year's leave- has been in operation since 1967. These Bills are to cover the situation where judges have not taken that leave because of their service to the state through the Commonwealth. In those circumstances this Government and previous governments have thought it fair that those judges be entitled to the leave which they have not taken or, in the case of death, that a widow should be entitled on a pro rata basis to payment for leave to which her late husband would have been entitled if he had served ten years or if he had died within a ten-year period. I would think that any fair-minded person, knowing what these Bills are doing and why they are doing it and knowing that the basic long leave entitlement of 12 months for ten years' service has been in existence for 12 years, would approve of what the Government is doing. Obviously the 5.2 weeks is the pro rata entitlement on the basis of that 12 months' leave for ten years' service to which I have referred. Therefore, the Government cannot accept the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. 
Amendment negatived. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)That will be noted in  Hansard. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The honourable gentleman obviously asked me this question out of his own interest in the concept of youth work cooperatives. I think the House knows certainly honourable members on the Government side of the House know that the honourable gentleman pioneered youth work co-operatives in Australia in his own electorate of Bradfield, and a very successful experiment it was. It was so successful that a number of honourable members on the Government side of the House have approached me to see whether the Government would support that kind of program. The difficulty of it is that, strictly speaking, it does not come within any of the existing manpower programs, particularly the National Employment and Training system subsidies. Nevertheless, the former Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations was able to assist the honourable member. Because of the interest shown in this particular kind of youth unemployment program I have asked my Department to consider the possibility of establishing it as a Government program, either as an adaptation of the NEAT assistance or as a program in its own right. It will be some time, at least several weeks, before the report from my Department is available to me, but as soon as it comes to hand I will look at it and advise the honourable gentleman. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the answer to a question asked of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  concerning statistics relating to the Special Youth Employment Training Program and the answer to a question directed to me by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  concerning a Special Youth Employment Training Program in Commonwealth departments. 
I am aware of certain reports in the Press concerning situations at Lake Nash and that some of the Aboriginals who have been living at Lake Nash are presently in Canberra. I am quite sure that my colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, has this matter under his attention. I will refer the question to him and obtain an answer for the Leader of the Opposition. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, together with the companion Bill, Supply Bill (No. 2) 1979-80, seeks interim appropriations for the services of the Government for the period 1 July 1979 to 30 November 1979, by which date it is expected that the Appropriation Bills forming part of the 1979-80 Budget will have been enacted. Supply Bill (No. 1 ) seeks appropriations totalling some $4,06 lm for the ordinary annual services of the Government. This is $2 17m, or 5.7 per cent, greater than the amounts provided in Supply Act (No. 1) 1978-79. I wish to emphasise that the Supply Bills are not to be interpreted as in any way anticipating what amounts might be included for any particular service in the 1979-80 Budget. The provisions made by this Bill have no regard to policy decisions to be taken in the context of the Budget. This Bill includes $ 100m for the advance to the Minister for Finance, which is the same amount as the provision in Supply Act (No. 1) 1978-79. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks interim appropriations, totalling $754m for expenditure on capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services for the period 1 July 1979 to 30 November 1 979. The Bill includes $ 100m for the advance to the Minister for Finance- the same amount as was provided in last year's Supply Act (No. 2). As I emphasised when introducing 
Supply Bill (No. 1 ) 1 979-80 the provisions in this Bill are not to be interpreted as in any way anticipating what amounts may be included in the 1979-80 Budget. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question. As it happens, both he and I were at a conference on employment at Penrith in his electorate at which the honourable member for Prospect made the statement referred to by the honourable member for 
Macquarie. I happen to have with me a copy of the transcript of" that conference. I shall quote from it. The honourable member for Prospect said:   . . what's the point  of pushing  say young people into a particular job? Let's assume, take the worst case, that a bloke wants to be a  surfie  or whatever and he doesn't particularly want to get a job, let's admit that there are some number of people that are in that position that would rather get the $36 per week than get a job . . . 
He went on to make some comments about why we should not chase those people and force them to take a job. He continued:   . . we are just being narks to try and push people who, and it is the whole community not just the Government, but there are large numbers of people in the community who feel very strongly about it, that this young kid really  doesn't  want to work, we ought to chase him and make him work. Completely ridiculous. 
I venture to suggest that a great many people in the community do not accept the proposition of the honourable gentleman and do not believe that surfies should be allowed by their own choice not to try to get a job. Having attended that conference at Penrith, I was rather interested to read of the remarks by the Leader of the Opposition about certain people in the community who were proposing that people who want to follow an alternative lifestyle should be allowed to do so at the expense of the Government. It seems to me that the Leader of the Opposition is at odds with the honourable member for Prospect and another leading member of the Labor Party. In his speech to the Labor Economists Conference the Leader of the Opposition said: 
There is lip service to the principle that we cannot live with five to six per cent unemployment, but there is a lack of stomach to do anything much about it. 
Such a lack of urgency in public policy terms is reflected in visionary concepts directed to the development of alternative living patterns as a solution to mass unemployment. 
I would think that the prominent leader of the Labor Party would be flattered at being described as a visionary. The Leader of the Opposition continued: 
To my mind, it is fanciful to assume that great masses of people and young people in particular, can be lured into Utopian solutions of this sort. 
The Minister for Social Security and I have undertaken a review of the work test. The Government does not believe that people of the kind to which the honourable member for Prospect has referred should be allowed to get away with not working, at the taxpayers' expense, when they are fit and able to work and work is available to them. One aspect of the review of the work test procedures which I expect will be announced within a reasonable time will be to cover precisely the situation to which the honourable member for Prospect referred. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979 will, together with the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill 1979 and the Telecommunications Amendment Bill 1979, which have been introduced in, but have not yet passed the Senate, provide the statutory framework for fundamental reforms to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization. These reforms were recommended by the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security constituted by  Mr Justice  Hope after a thorough and searching examination of the needs of the nation for a security service. That commission, I remind the House, was set up by the previous Government. In the very exhaustive consideration given to the Bill in the Senate, there was a large measure of consensus in relation to the Bill. Amendments moved by the Government took account of a number of Opposition proposals although the Government, after careful consideration, found that other proposals could not be accepted. Clearly, the national interest requires that a substantial bi-partisan approach should be taken to the legislation. 
The legislation was foreshadowed in the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the House on 25 October 1977 when he outlined in broad terms the Government's decisions to implement reforms affecting the intelligence security agencies recommended by  Mr Justice  Hope. This legislation enacts these reforms and substantially follows the recommendations of the royal commission which are set out in the reports tabled on 25 October 1977. The legislative reforms themselves are so fundamental and wide ranging that a completely new Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill rather than amendment to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act 1956 has been drafted. The existing ASIO Act which the Prime Minister of the day, the then  Mr Menzies,  introduced into this House 23 years ago, will be repealed. 
In so far as the recommendations of the royal commission have not required legislation they have already been substantially implemented. Thus, there have been substantial changes to ASIO since the appointment of  Mr Justice  Woodward on 9 March 1976 and particularly since the recommendations of the royal commission were accepted in 1977. The managerial structure and methods of the Organization have been reviewed and substantially improved. A series of management training courses has been conducted by an independent team of professional management consultants from private industry.  Mr Justice  Woodward has instituted a rigorous system of internal checks to ensure that the Organization's intelligence collection is geared as closely as possible to the assessed national security priorities and therefore that resources are most efficiently deployed. 
The Organization's financial control system is being put on a new footing with the assistance of professional advice from relevant government departments. The Organization produces regular assessments and reports on national security matters and participates with Government departments on a wide range of matters of national security interest. 
Honourable members will appreciate that there have been substantial changes to the overall management of the intelligence community following the Prime Minister's statement to the House of 5 May 1977 outlining new intelligence and security arrangements in accordance with the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. A key aspect of the new system is that the budget of the community is scrutinised by senior officials outside of the intelligence community. Funds sought must be justified with respect to priorities and requirements and care is taken to ensure that activities are coordinated and duplication avoided. Overseeing the functions of officials and constituting a final venue for review and decision is the Intelligence and Security Committee of Cabinet composed of key senior Ministers. This system therefore provides an external discipline to ASIO in regard to its overall efficiency. I can report to Parliament that this new system, recommended by  Mr Justice  Hope, has brought substantial improvements to the overall management of the intelligence community and has prompted a range of on-going reforms. In the most recent international crisis affecting Australia's neighbourhood, our intelligence was both timely and relevant and the assessments of our intelligence community accurate. 
I shall now discuss the terms of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill.  Mr Justice  Hope pointed out that the justification for the existence of a security organization in a democratic country should be reflected in its charter and, in particular, its functions as set out in that charter. He found that the proper fields of investigation by ASIO should be more clearly defined than in the present legislation and went on to indicate in detail what these should be. These recommendations by  His  Honour are reflected in the terms of clause 1 7 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill which states the functions of the Organization as: 
To obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence relevant to security. 
For purposes relevant to security and not otherwise to communicate any such intelligence. 
To advise Ministers and authorities of the Commonwealth in respect of matters relating to security. 
It should be noted that, in accordance with the recommendations of the royal commission, the definition of 'security' in the present Act has been expanded to include not only espionage, sabotage and subversion but also active measures of foreign intervention (meaning clandestine or deceptive action taken by a foreign power to promote the interests of that power) and terrorism. It should be noted that, while ASIO will be empowered to collect intelligence concerning these matters, criminal offences are not thereby created. ASIO is not a law enforcement agency. The provisions of clause 20 requiring the Director-General to take all reasonable steps to ensure that the work of the Organization is limited to what is necessary for the purposes of the discharge of its functions and that the Organization is kept free from any influences not relevant to its functions, follow closely the significant recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope in that regard. Honourable members will recall that an important theme in the Royal Commission's report is that ASIO should at all times comply with the law. It has also been the concern of the present Director-General that ASIO should comply with the law but existing laws present problems for effective intelligence collection. This was recognised by the Royal Commission which concluded that the Organization required certain specified powers of intelligence collection and that the laws should be changed to this end. 
After careful consideration, the Government accepted this recommendation. Thus, Division 2 of Part III of the Bill provides for certain powers to be exercisable by ASIO subject to significant safeguards. At the same time ASIO will be prohibited from carrying on these activities except under warrants provided in the legislation. The additional powers thus provided for are, to enter premises to search for records, to use listening devices, to open and inspect postal articles. However, before such powers could be exercised in any particular case, there will need to be a request by the Director-General to the Minister who in turn must be satisfied as to the need for the action before granting a warrant. In the case of listening devices, the DirectorGeneral will be empowered in emergency circumstances to issue a warrant of very limited duration. 
Balancing this re-definition of the functions and powers of ASIO are a number of important considerations. First, recognising the key position of the Director-General and the need for a bi-partisan approach to the security of the nation, the Bill will require consultation with the Leader of the Opposition before appointment of the Director-General. Additionally, amendments moved by the Government in the Senate require consultation with the Leader of the Opposition before appointment of an acting Director-General- sub-clause 14 (2)- the Director-General to consult regularly with the Leader of the Opposition for the purpose of keeping him informed on matters relating to security- clause 2 1 -and a copy of the annual report of the Director-General to be given to the Leader of the Opposition- clause 94. Further, in accordance with  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendation, the provisions of the Bill relating to the Director-General, particularly as regards tenure of office and the grounds on which his appointment may be terminated, have been brought in line with provisions dealing with statutory office holders in other Commonwealth legislation. 
A further major consideration is the creation in Part IV of the Bill of a totally new statutory framework for the preparation and communication of ASIO security assessments in respect of individuals and the giving to most persons affected by prejudicial security assessments of a right of appeal to a tribunal presided over by a judge. The effect of this Part is that, where a security assessment has been made in respect of an employee of the Commonwealth or a Commonwealth contractor or, broadly speaking, in respect of a person for the purposes of the Migration Act 1958, the Australian Citizenship Act 1948 or the Passports Act 1938, that contains an opinion or information prejudicial to his interests, that person must ordinarily be given notice of the assessment. Further, the person will be given a right by this Bill to appeal to a tribunal to be presided over by a judge where the assessment will be reviewed. Commonwealth departments and other agencies will be required by the Bill to treat the findings of the tribunal as superseding the assessment. In determining the procedures to be followed by the tribunal, regard has had to be had to the special needs of security, particularly preservation of secrecy as to identity of informants. Thus, confrontation between the parties to the appeal is not possible but special provision is made to ensure that an appellant is not thereby prejudiced. 
An amendment to clause 39 moved by the Government in the Senate will make it clear that Commonwealth departments and authorities may not take administrative action to which the Bill applies on the basis of an adverse or qualified assessment made before the legislation comes into force. A new assessment will of course carry with it the rights as to notification and appeal provided in the Bill. Thus, in effect, the legislation will cause 'the slate to be wiped clean ' so far as past ASIO adverse or qualified assessments are concerned. A further amendment moved by the Government in the Senateinsertion of clause 40- will require the Organization to furnish assessments intended or likely to be used by a State for prescribed administrative action only through a Commonwealth department or authority, thus ensuring that the person concerned has the benefit of the rights as to notification and appeal provided in the Bill. 
The statutory procedures for notification of security assessments and for rights of appeal in large part implement the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope. They represent the first attempt, at least in a common law country, to provide a comprehensive statutory framework regulating the making of security assessments of individuals and providing a right of appeal to an independent judicial tribunal. They therefore represent one of the most important steps taken in this Parliament for many years directed to the protection of the rights of individuals. 
Honourable members will recall that the Royal Commission rightly gave much attention to what should be the relationship between the Director-General and the Government.  Mr Justice  Hope concluded that legal doubts as to the nature of this relationship that had arisen under the terms of the present Act should be removed and the relationship should be clearly defined. The Government has acted on this recommendation and clause 8 of the Bill defines this relationship, although on slightly different lines from those recommended by  His  Honour. Clearly, the Government must, in the ultimate, bear the responsibility for the security of the nation. It must also bear the responsibility for the general direction of the activities of the security organisation. At the same time it is proper that the Organisation should be under the control of the Director-General and that the Government should not be able to override the opinion of the Director-General on whether security requires or does not require the collection of information on an individual, whether information held concerning an individual should be communicated or on what advice should be given by the Director-General to a Minister or a department. Clause 8 of the Bill reflects these considerations. 
However, while we must seek to express in appropriate statutory form the proper relationship between the Government and the DirectorGeneral of Security, I must observe that the personal calibre of the holder of that difficult and lonely position will remain of the utmost importance. In  Mr Justice  Woodward, Australia is indeed fortunate in having an outstanding Director-General and I am sure that members of all parties share that view. He has set a standard for holders of that office that Governments must seek to match in future appointments. The relationship between ASIO and State governments and agencies raises important considerations. In accordance with the recommendation of the Royal Commission, the Bill provides for ASIO, subject to directions of the Minister, co-operating with departments, police forces and authorities of the States. Similar provision is made for cooperation with authorities of other countries but in such cases the Minister must approve the country as being capable of assisting the Organisation in the performance of its functions. 
The legislation that I am today introducing represents a balance between the needs of the nation for a strong, reliable and highly efficient security service and the need to preserve our individual rights and freedoms. Australia faces a number of serious threats to its internal security including persistent efforts on the part of hostile intelligence agencies to obtain intelligence from within Australia. This legislation will give ASIO a charter appropriate for the circumstances of today and the tasks it will be called on to perform. It will equip ASIO with the powers essential for those tasks and at the same time provide safeguards for the rights of individuals and the continuation of our democratic institutions. The national interest demands an approach above party politics to this legislation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
) Yes. 
(a) 1 January 1972. 
No period of employment was set at time of appointment. 
Annual subsidy is $ 1,600. Total subsidies paid for  Mrs Tapp's  work since her appointment amount to $ 10,725.25. 
The following 'Job Description' for community advisers located on pastoral properties was drawn up when the scheme was originally established in1969 by the Welfare Division of the Northern Territory Administration, and would have been given to  Mrs Tapp  on her appointment: 
Plan and implement a program of domestic training for Aboriginal women and senior girls paying particular attention to: 
) General family care and personal hygiene. 
ii ) House cleaning and care. 
Care of clothes, including laundering, ironing and mending. 
Planning, preparation, cooking and serving of meals, food storage and the maximum use of cooked foods. 
Check on infant and child feeding programs and train mothers in improved mothercraft techniques; instruct in infant and child care and hygiene. 
Provide assistance with and training in budgeting for meals and clothes, for household items and furniture. 
Encourage group cultural, social and recreational activities amongst Aboriginal women and their families along lines tending to conventionally accepted patterns; act as a bridge between women and girls of Aboriginal and European descent providing common activities, e.g. school welfare associations in which both groups can participate equally. 
As necessary and appropriate give training leading to domestic employment. 
Maintain individual progress records and review and vary programs of training as necessary. 
Carry out such other activities as may be necessary to further the advancement of Aboriginal women to standards acceptable to the wider Australian community. 
No, oversight and assessment has been carried out during periodical visits to Killarney Station by officers of the Welfare Division and latterly the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The scheme has been progressively phased out and Killarney Station is the only pastoral property receiving this subsidy. My Department is negotiating with the NT Government on alternative arrangements to meet the welfare needs of people living on pastoral properties. 
Air Fares to the Middle East: Discrimination  (Question No. 3579) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The Aboriginal and Islander Commission appointed by the Queensland Government in 1977 recommended in its report issued in November 1978 'that full award wages be implemented for those people working on reserve communities'. But, to the best of my knowledge, no legislation has yet been introduced (and no regulations amended ) to give effect to this recommendation. 
See answer to (1). 
Commonwealth Governments have, from time to time over the past ten years, discussed with the Queensland Government the amendment of legislation affecting Aborginals and Torres Strait Islanders in that State. Progressive changes have been made to the legislation. 
In 1975 the Commonwealth Parliament enacted the Racial Discrimination Act and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act in order to supersede certain provisions of the Queensland legislation which had the effect of discriminating against Queensland Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. These laws are available for Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders to use and legal advice is available to those wishing to do so, in particular through the Queensland Aborginal and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service. 
When the Queensland Government announced its intention of imposing direct official management by the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement on the reserve communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island in March 1978, the Commonwealth Government introduced the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act. When the Queensland Government revoked the two reserves the Commonwealth negotiated an agreement whereby the Queensland Government undertook to legislate to provide both for the self-management of the two communities within a local government framework and for the grant of longterm leases over the former reserves. 
The Commonwealth Government has recently entered into discussions with the Queensland Government on policy issues relating to the management of reserve communities and land tenure. These discussions are continuing. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (b) A program of cyclone restoration works to be carried out by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement at Mornington Island was approved in August1 977. The program provided for the reconstruction of1 23 dwellings over a three year period. 
To date, 40 dwellings have been completed and 10 are being constructed. Another 30 dwellings are to be erected as soon as possible. 
An amount of $1,480,500 was approved for grants from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for housing restoration at Mornington Island. This amount represents a 30 per cent contribution toward the total cost of cyclone reconstruction. The balance is being met from the Natural Disasters Relief funds. A total of $645,089 has been expended to date. 
) Completion of the cyclone restoration program should meet present housing needs at Mornington Island. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The letter referred to was acknowledged by my predecessor on 8 November1978 and a full reply was provided on 14 November 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Appropriate positions are open to persons both inside and outside the Australian Public Service and all applicants including the redundant staff are able to compete on merit in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Act. 
The Working Party, recommended in the Ga1bally Report, was established on1 9 June1 978. Since then regional Committees (comprising the Public Service Board, the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs) have been established in each State and Territory to interview all Council staff and assist in finding alternative employment. Detailed staff profiles have been sent to State and local government bodies. 
In addition, Council staff are being referred for consideration for any positions for which they have relevant qualifications and experience that arc advertised as open to persons who are not officers of the Service, such as the recently advertised positions in the post arrival areas of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The Commonwealth Employment Service is also actively pursuing alternative employment for Council staff. 
Tertiary Education: OECD Countries (Question No. 3240) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The Annerley-Moorooka project was approved by the Queensland State CYSS Committee in December 1978 for a six month period of funding which is not due to conclude until 13 July 1979. It is also anticipated that the Annerley-Moorooka Local CYSS Committee will submit in due course an application to the State Committee for continuation funding of the project after that date. 
2 ) and ( 3 ) See answer to ( 1 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 1000 training and work experience opportunities are being provided in two intakes of500. The placement of the first intake of trainees is completed but it is not possible at this stage to provide detailed information about trainees. However, the information is not normally available on the basis of electoral boundaries. 
Employment: NEAT Scheme (Question No. 3498) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Since changes to the Special Youth Employment Training Program which forms part of the National Employment and Training System (NEAT) came into effect on 22 January 1979 the number of NEAT trainees at the end of each month is as follows: 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
One. 
Forty-one. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
and (2) All States and the Northern Territory have statutory schemes that make provision for compensation for injuries caused by criminal acts. Development of a similar scheme for the Australian Capital Territory is well advanced and it is anticipated that legislation to establish the scheme will be ready later this year. 
I think the question asked by the honourable member discloses some confused thinking on this whole question of the shortage of skilled tradesmen and, indeed, across the wide range of skills required by Australian industry and commerce. The Government has been very active in this field of offering incentives to employers to take on apprentices. I mention, in particular, the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme. A good deal of money is being invested by this Government in the CRAFT scheme which it initiated to provide subsidies to employers to take on apprentices. About six weeks ago I announced to the House the Government's support of the concept of complementary trade training which will provide opportunities to mature age people who had not taken on apprenticeships at the normal age grouping but who desired to obtain a trade skill. The House is aware also of the fact that the Government has sent a mission overseas to obtain information on what other countries are doing to provide training in skills so urgently needed by Australian industry and commerce. My colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is constantly in touch through his Department with my Department on the requirements of Australian industry. We have a history since the Second World War of obtaining skilled tradesmen from overseas as part of our annual migration effort. I can assure industry that we will continue to do that. Where shortages are apparent, we will endeavour not only to train the Australian work force but also to obtain skills from overseas. 
The Government does not accept this amendment. It is unnecessary and would add nothing to the Bill. I am rather perplexed because the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has been arguing that this whole provision is so bad that the Bill ought to be withdrawn. Yet the Opposition proposes to specify certain reasons as the basis upon which action could be taken to redeploy or retire. One reason is that the employee no longer possesses the essential educational or legal qualifications for his duties. Let me remind the House of the actual provisions of clause 7 of the Bill. Paragraph (iii) refers to 'for any other prescribed reason', that is, reasons which will be prescribed by legislation. 
The Opposition apparently does not understand that prescription by regulation comes within the provisions of the Acts Interpretation Act and therefore within the scrutiny of Parliament. The regulation is therefore capable of being disallowed if it is a bad one, that is, if it prescribes reasons which are unfair or unjust. Presumably, on the basis of the Opposition's amendment, it would be quite in order for the Government to prescribe by regulation as a reason for action under clause 7 the fact that a person no longer possesses the essential educational or legal qualifications for his duties. Furthermore, it apparently escapes the Opposition that sub-clause (2) of clause 7 provides: 
Regulations prescribing a reason for the purpose of paragraph I (b) shall not be made except after consideration by the Governor-General of a report made to the GovernorGeneral by the Public Service Board after -  and I emphasise this point:   . . consultation by the Public Service Board with the organizations, being organizations representing the interests of employees or a class of employees, prescribed for the purposes of this section. 
In other words, the Public Service Board can act by reason of the provisions of this legislation only after it has consulted with the staff organisations. It is subject to a regulation providing for a report to the Governor-General, which regulation in turn is capable of being disallowed by Parliament. I would have thought that, by any measure, there is adequate and complete protection for individual staff members of the Australian Public Service. I remind the Opposition of the existing provisions of section 67 which is contained in Division 7 of the Public Service Act and which refers to the incapacity of officers. It provides: 
If an officer appears to the Board or the Chief Officer to be inefficient or incompetent or unfit to discharge or incapable of discharging the duties of his office efficiently, the Board may, after report from the Chief Officer, and after investigation into the circumstances, retire the officer from the Service from a date to be specified by the Board, or may transfer him to some other office, with salary appropriate to such other office. 
If this amendment were agreed to by the Government, section 67 would be repealed, but there would be no power under the Bill to prescribe, as a reason for action under clause 7, the inefficiency or incompetence or unfitness to discharge or incapacity of discharging the duties of the office of a particular officer. I think that I have demonstrated the absurdity of the amendment proposed by the Opposition. For that reason, as I have said, the Government will not accept it. 
I should like to answer the comments that have just been made by members of the Opposition. Firstly, the shadow Minister for Industrial Relations, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  referred to the 1976 Bill which provided, in the equivalent provision, for dismissal for 'any other reason'. Honourable members will notice that in this Bill that phrase has been changed to 'any other prescribed reason'. The two alterations to be made to the 1976 Bill are important in answering the points raised by the Opposition. The first alteration is the one that I have just mentioned, that is, that the reason for dismissal must be prescribed by regulation. I have already referred to the protection given through the power of Parliament to scrutinise the regulation and, if it is a bad regulation, to disallow it. 
The second alteration is the requirement that the regulation prescribing 'any other reason' must be for the purposes of paragraph 7 ( 1 ) (b) and also must be based on a report to the Governor-General after consultation with the Public Service organisations. So, firstly, we have protection by regulation which is controllable by Parliament. Secondly, that regulation must be for the purposes of paragraph 7 ( 1 ) (b) and must ensure, to the greatest extent that is practicable, that the services of each employee in a department and each employee of a prescribed Commonwealth authority cannot, consistent with the achievement of the first object, reasonably be used in the Department or by the authority. For the edification of the Opposition, in legal terms, that means that if the regulation is not relevant to the purposes of clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) it is capable of being challenged in the courts and of being found invalid. 
The third protection is that the clause requires consultation with staff organisations, as I have already indicated. That provision is also capable of challenge in the courts. In other words, 'consultation' is a definable word, a known concept. If the Public Service Board did not consult in a relevant and proper manner, the staff organisations could challenge the decision in the courts and if there was not found to be proper consultation, the regulation could be declared invalid. Therefore, I find none of the arguments put forward by the Opposition to have any substance. 
-The word 'puerile' has been used. But as I say, the Opposition's arguments are without substance. I think that I have demonstrated to honourable members that there is complete and adequate protection to members of the Public Service in the use of the provisions of this clause. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Efficient and economical use of staff). 
I answer the Opposition on this clause firstly by saying that the Government does not accept its amendments. It does not consider them necessary. It does not consider it appropriate for its decisions on policy matters and on the priorities it gives to certain functions that affect staffing resources to be the subject of appeal.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I think you will understand that proposition readily. The Bill provides the necessary means to enable departments, authorities and the Public Service Board to adjust their staffing resources to meet changes in policy or priorities that the Government might make from time to time. Ministers and the Government are continuously accountable to Parliament for their conduct of public affairs and are ultimately answerable to the electorate. Therefore, it is the responsibility of Government alone to make policy decisions affecting functions and staffing resources of the Public Service to pursue those functions. I made this point to  Mr Munro,  Federal Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, in a letter I wrote to him recently answering some criticisms which he had made. 
Another matter mentioned by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  which was also raised by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  concerned retrenchment notices which they say- I have no way of vertifying this at the moment- were issued to staff of the Health Insurance Commission. Some time ago it became apparent in changes to the Medibank system made by the Government that all the existing staff of the Health Insurance Commission would not be required. Since then, after consultation with the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, the Public Service Board has been endeavouring to redeploy staff affected and to place them in employment in other parts of the Public Service. I inform the honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Cunningham that if staff members have received notices of retrenchment they will be able to obtain the benefits of Determination 509 of the Public Service Arbitrator, a well-established right obtainable by staff in the circumstances of retrenchment. 
I feel that what has been said regarding the amendments and earlier in the second reading debate has been a quite shameful attack by the Opposition on the integrity of the Public Service Board and permanent heads of the Australian Public Service. Since I have been a Minister I have had the opportunity to work very closely with three fine, honourable secretaries of departments. Having that experience, I think it is shameful for the Opposition to seek to attack the Government on this Bill through an attack on the integrity of the Public Service Board itself and permanent heads. The Opposition says that clause 9 of the Bill will allow politically motivated action to be taken. I am sure that the Opposition knows that the powers provided for by this Bill lie not with the Government but with the permanent heads and the Public Service. There is no way in which the Government can lean on or seek to corrupt the Public Service Board or the permanent heads in the exercise of their powers under this Bill. 
I mentioned  Mr Munro,  the Federal Secretary of ACOA. I draw to the attention of the Opposition what was said by  Mr Munro  in an appendix to the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. He was a member of that Royal Commission and he made this contribution in his own name under the heading 'Rights, Obligations, Grievances and Remedies of and against staff'. After discussing the existing provisions for compulsory retirement of staff  Mr Munro  said: 
It would be consistent with the themes of the Commission's Report to entrust departments and agencies with greater responsibility and authority over such matters. The diagnosis of any excess of staff, identification of, and action regarding particular officers in excess should be unequivocally the task of departmental management. 
That is the precise point which I made a moment ago.  Mr Munro  went on to say: 
The roles of both the Auditor-General and the Public Service Board should be influential as aids to departments in such diagnosis. Departmental powers to retire staff found to be excess to requirements should be limited to decision of provisional retirement, transfer or reduction in classification. Any such decisions should be subject to a departmental certification designed to ensure that no suitable alternative employment exists within the department or a department taking over a function to which the excess relates. Before confirmation, provisional retirements or reductions in classification based on such grounds should be examined against the availability of suitable alternative employment anywhere within the service. The Public Service Board remains the most appropriate agency to place provisionally retired staff or to confirm retirement action. 
That is precisely what this Bill does.  Mr Munro  went on to say: 
Where selection for retirement as excess to requirements is based upon a form of assessment of relative worth or efficiency a form of appeal related to that ground would appear to be appropriate. 
I conclude by making the point that a right of appeal such as that which  Mr Munro  proposed in the appendix to the royal commission report is precisely what is provided for in this Bill. 
I make one further point in regard to the amendments moved by the Opposition and the remarks which have just been made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  At this time I particularly direct my attention to the amendment No. (6) to clause 9 whereby the Opposition seeks to require that a redeployment declaration should include certain details of the declaration made and the reasons for it, the date from which the redeployment declaration is to be effective, and the rights of and methods for appeal against the declaration. I should inform the Committee that it is intended that following the passage of the Bill through Parliament discussions will be held between the Public Service Board and staff organisations about matters to be included in the procedures and criteria to be notified by the Board. Among these matters will be the information to be given to an employee at the same time as a copy of a redeployment declaration, including the information to which I have referred, namely, details of the declaration itself, the reasons for it, the date of it and the rights and methods of appeal. 
It is also intended that regulations to be made under the legislation will provide that the information of the kind I have referred to shall accompany the redeployment declaration. So it is intended that the matters which are referred to in the amendments will be covered by the procedures, criteria and the regulations which are to be promulgated after discussion with the staff associations. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 14- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause15 (Appeals). 
This is really the clause which has been referred to most unkindly by the Opposition as the 'dobbing in' clause. That is a gross exaggeration and I think a reflection on individual members of the Public Service as well as the permanent heads who have obligations under this Bill. It would not mean that a successful appeal would result in one of the appellant's workmates being retired in his or her stead. 
-No, it does not result in that. It will not mean that a successful appeal will result in one of the appellant 's workmates being retired in his or her stead. An appeal tribunal can, under certain circumstances, join to an appeal by an employee declared in a situation of excess staffremember that, in a situation of excess staff, because that is what we are talking about- any or all other employees in that situation whether or not they have been declared under the legislation. In those circumstances the tribunal has the power to substitute for the appellant's declaration a declaration in respect of one of the other parties to the appeal. Here is an important point. I understand fully the honourable gentleman's reference to a roping in award; I did practise once in the Federal arbitration jurisdiction. 
Let me make it quite clear that it is intended that the regulations issued under the legislation will require that when employees are joined to an appeal they be advised and be given the same rights to make submissions as the appellant. Therefore, they will be in an equal status before the tribunal so that they can protect their own rights before the tribunal. Therefore, there will be no disadvantage to any individual member of the Public Service. I know this is a point that is sought to be whipped up outside this chamber, but I make quite clear the way in which the regulations will protect the rights of individuals who have not had a declaration made with respect to them. 
The purpose of these provisions is to ensure consistency and expedition in appeals where numbers of staff are involved in excess staff situations. In such cases all staff involved would be given a chance for their case to be considered by the tribunal and the tribunal would be able to make a final decision on who should be declared excess. This category of appeal does not apply to retirement. It applies only to the determination of which staff are excess. This is only the first step in the process. The next step is for action to be taken to seek to arrange alternative.employment. Only where this fails is retirement possible. But an individual, declared surplus as a result of the outcome of the appeal by another employee, retains the further separate rights of appeal against any redeployment action taken or a decision that redeployment is not practicable. I am sure honourable members will readily appreciate that, by the procedures I have described and through the rights which each individual affected by a declaration has, he will be fully protected in respect of his own personal position within the Public Service. Therefore, none of the criticisms that have been made either inside this chamber or outside this chamber have any validity. 
Let me answer what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has just said. I should have thought that it would be abundantly clear to the Committee that, in a situation of excessive numbers, if an individual staff member is affected by an appeal brought by another staff member natural justice requires that the staff member affected should have the right of audience before the appeal tribunal. The consequence of the amendment proposed by the Opposition would be a denial of that right of audience to the individual staff member affected by the appeal of another staff member in an excessive numbers situation. 
As the honourable member for La Trobe says, the Opposition is wrong again. Let me remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide of what  Mr Munro  said in his appendix to the report of the royal commission when dealing with the rights, obligations, grievances and remedies of and against staff. I will quote two sections of what I have already quoted in full to the Committee. Firstly,  Mr Munro  said: 
The  diagonoses  of any excess of staff, identification of, and action regarding particular officers in excess should be unequivocally the task of departmental management. 
I understand the Opposition's proposal to be to deny that recommendation. Further,  Mr Munro  said: 
Where selection for retirement as excess to requirements is based on a form of assessment of relative worth or efficiency a form of appeal related to that ground would appear to be appropriate. 
That is precisely what this appeal clause provides for. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  question is: That the amendments be agreed to. 
I regret that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  attacked the mode of appointment of the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Employees Redeployment and Retirement Appeals Tribunal. By virtue of clause 16 of the Bill, the GovernorGeneral appoints the  chairman  of that Tribunal. It is, indeed, no different to the Government appointing judges, the Government appointing chairmen, for example, of repatriation appeal tribunals or appointing chairmen of social security appeal tribunals or appointing presidents and  deputy  presidents of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. As I pointed out earlier, the Tribunal will be made up of a  chairman  appointed pursuant to the express provisions of the legislation, a representative of the Public Service Board and a representative of the employees. Of course, a tripartite tribunal of that kind, particularly where there is the specific appointment of a member of the Tribunal to represent the interests of the employees affected, is well known in the Public Service through the system of promotions appeals. 
I would add one more thing concerning this aspect of the Bill because the honourable member for Melbourne has drawn in a number of other arguments in support of his attack upon the appeal rights. I refer to the concept of a career in the Public Service. That concept, with security of tenure for career officials, has always been subject to provisions in the Public Service Act relating to termination of employment of surplus officers, retirement on the grounds of invalidity, inefficiency or incompetence and dismissal on disciplinary grounds. The Bill does not affect the disciplinary provisions of the Public Service Act and modifies the other provisions mentioned which have been described in the past as being too summary in nature. The kind of language that has been used is that the existing provisions allow arbitrary or capricious action against an individual. What this legislation provides is a more extensive range of appeal rights to staff affected by redeployment or retirement and, furthermore, sets out more clearly the framework within which decisions are to be taken by the Public Service Board or a permanent head. Indeed, and I think this point is pertinent, if this Bill were the present law and the existing provisions of the Public Service Act were being introduced in replacement- that is, the reversal of the present situation- the outcry from the present critics of this Bill would be deafening. I think that comment, in itself, is a measure of the completeness and the adequacy of the provisions of this Bill and in particular, the completeness and adequacy of the appeal rights in this legislation but which are absent in the existing provisions of the Public Service Act. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
I do believe that my statement in the second reading speech is quite clear in relation to the benefits payable pursuant to this Bill or in a situation of excess staff. The honourable gentleman quoted some of what I said in my second reading speech. I wish to quote from the relevant paragraph which, in referring to the special benefit- that is, for those retired at age 55 years or above- states:   . . reducing on a graduated basis to two months salary on retirement at age 59... does not apply to staff who are excess to requirements or who are retired on ill-health grounds for whom separate provisions already exist. For superannuation contributors in these circumstances provision is made under the Superannuation Act. 
That is where they received their benefit if they are retired on ill-health grounds- 
Furthermore, in the case of excess staff the Public Service Arbitrator's Decision No. 509 of 1 977 applies. 
That is the point I emphasised to the honourable member, in the case of excess staff. I think that is quite clear. The regulations to be made under the legislation will provide for those persons retired at 55 years of age. Otherwise, for those who are retired on ill-health grounds or who are retired in the case of excess staff, their benefits are received not pursuant to the regulations but under the Superannuation Act or the Public Service Arbitrator's determination. I wish to take the opportunity to comment with regard to clause 28. It is a matter which is of particular interest to the Parliament because clause 28 refers to employees in a parliamentary department. It is a provision of the Bill about which I have received correspondence from the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and the  President  of the Senate. I wish to take the opportunity to make this point on behalf of the Government with regard to that clause. 
In the application of this legislation to the parliamentary departments, I would like to assure the House that the Government recognises the unique relationship between the Executive, the Parliament and the staff of the parliamentary departments. Although the staff of the Parliament are employed under the Public Service Act, section 9 of the Act establishes the clear right of the Parliament through the Presiding Officers to regulate its own staffing matters. There is no specific analagous provision in this Bill because there are a number of possible approaches which would recognise the role of the Presiding Officers, but the appropriateness of particular approaches to the needs of the Parliament requires further consideration. Therefore, I have asked the Public Service Board to have further discussions with the permanent heads of the parliamentary departments and let me know what modifications and adaptations are desirable so that regulations can be made under clause 28 of the Bill. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I thank the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  for making the point that he, like all members on the Government side of the House, can tell public servants that the Opposition would deny them the very real rights that will be provided to them under the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill by way of voluntary retirement and the real protection which this Bill will give to them in contrast to the existing provisions of the Public Service Act in a case of redundancy. 
Much has been said in the course of this debate. I will deal with some of these points raised in my reply and I will reply at greater length than I would normally, in a second reading debate because of the remarks made by members of the Opposition. During the Committee stage, when I understand that the Opposition will be moving some amendments of course I will be able to deal with some of the specific matters which the Opposition raises on individual clauses. 
I wish at the outset to congratulate those speakers on the Government side of the House for their very real contributions to this debate. I invite every public servant who is concerned about the provisions of this Bill to read the contributions made by those Government members. They will see that the contributions are reasoned, moderate in their expression, rational and above all accurate. If public servants who quite properly are concerned at the impact of this legislation on their future career take the time to read those speeches, I think that all their fears will be removed. I invite them to contrast those speeches made by Government members with those of the Opposition- the exaggeration, the intemperateness, the inaccuracy and the irrationality which came from the Opposition speakers not the least being the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden). 
Having said that, let me take up a few of the points raised. There was a criticism that there has been a lack of consultation with the Public Service associations. Let me run through quickly the extent of consultation since 1976. It is as far back as that that we find the origins of this Bill. Firstly, on 13 September 1976 in Canberra the parties involved in consultation were the Department of the Prime Minister and of Cabinet, the Public Service Board and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. On 4 November 1976 in Melbourne the Board, CAGEO, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the Council of Professional Associations were involved in discussions. A Bill, which was the forerunner of the present Bill, was introduced into this House on 8 December 1976. It was allowed to lie on the table and with the dissolution of Parliament in 1977 it lapsed. Further consultation occurred on 2 February 1977 in Melbourne between the Board, CAGEO, the ACTU, ACSPA and the CPA. Again on 29 November 1978 in Canberra the Board, CAGEO and the CPA were involved in consultations. At that time the ACTU notified that CAGEO would be representing its views. On 24 January 1979 in Canberra discussions were held between the Board, CAGEO, the ACTU, ACSPA and the CPA. Those discussions and the November discussions followed my announcement in this House that the Government intended to proceed with the original Bill in a modified form particularly to take account of the concern of public servants regarding the appeal provisions. On 28 February 1979 in Melbourne discussions were held between the same parties. The Bill was introduced on 5 April 1979. 
I feel quite sure that anybody seeing that record of consultation can judge the earnestness of the Government in seeking to obtain the views of the staff associations before proceeding with the legislation. It is true that CAGEO and ACSPA have expressed their opposition to the Bill, particularly the provisions dealing with management initiated retirement. Nevertheless, I am pleased to say that those organisations contributed so constructively to the discussions with the Public Service Board on the specific provisions of the Bill that the Government is quite satisfied that these provisions cover the areas of concern detailed by the staff associations. In addition to that, within the last fortnight there has been some correspondence between myself, the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and CAGEO. So there is ample evidence of the Government's earnestness in seeking consultation with staff associations. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  sought to use this debate to attack the Government's use of staff ceilings and I take this opportunity to make some remarks about that attack. Staff ceilings have been applied to Commonwealth employment throughout most of the 1970s including, and I emphasise this, most of the period when the Australian Labor Party held office. Let me detail some of the instructions given by the Honourable Gough Whitlam when he was the Prime Minister. In 1973-74 the Government issued a direction that growth in Public Service Act staff be kept below 5 per cent. In June 1 974 the Prime Minister of the day announced a Public Service Act growth ceiling of 2.6 percent. 
In January 1975, the Labor Government of the day removed staff ceilings, but what did it do in their place? Here is the rub, as the honourable member for Holt appreciates. The then Prime Minister, having removed staff ceilings, requested departments and authorities to create maximum employment opportunities within the limits of their salary appropriations. Of course, by financial discipline the Labor Government of the day could directly control the rate of growth of Public Service staff. 
The use of staff ceilings goes back as far as 1951 when the then Prime Minister, the late  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, following his great victory in 1949, introduced staff ceilings. In 1970-71, the Government of the day, as happened also throughout 1971-72 and 1972-73, applied the discipline of staff ceilings to control the growth of the Commonwealth Public Service. Therefore, the complaints of the honourable member for Port Adelaide on behalf of the Opposition fall on barren ground. As I speak, I notice the stony silence of the Opposition. Whilst this Government has applied staff ceilings in this way, it has been anxious to provide the staff resources where the need has been apparent. I need only mention my own responsibility, the Commonwealth Employment Service. Having accepted the recommendations of the Norgard inquiry and as part of the modernisation and upgrading of the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Government has increased the staff. Further, in the Department of Social Security, the staff has been increased by more than 23 per cent since this Government came into office. There are a number of other examples where, notwithstanding staff ceilings, this Government has allowed the staff ceilings to be penetrated in the interests of equipping departments with the necessary staff to provide services to the public. At the same time, however, we have required the Public Service to use its existing staff in a most efficient and economical manner by indentifying areas of high priority in contrast to those of low priority and by redeploying staff to the greater benefit of the individual and the departments as a whole. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was directing my comments to remarks made by the Opposition concerning the application of" staff ceilings. I believe I have effectively answered those comments. I would conclude by referring to an accusation made by the Opposition that the Government applied staff ceilings arbitrarily and across the board. Nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, the procedures currently in force are that the Public Service Board obtains forward staffing estimates from departments and authorities. It examines them and discusses them with the departments within a framework laid down by the Government. After an assessment of what is practicable, the Public Service Board assesses the areas of greater and lesser need in the light of departmental responses and then makes recommendations to the Government on the level of staff ceilings. Rather than across the board reductions, the outcome is one in which some departments and authorities get significant increases in staff while others with static or declining workloads or with scope for increasing efficiency may have to do with fewer staff. I have no doubt that through the policies of this Government in the way in which staff ceilings have been applied, though we have a leaner Public Service than was the case when we came into office at the end of 1 975, Australia now has a much more efficient Public Service as a consequence of our rational staff ceiling policy. Enough then on the accusations against the Government regarding staff ceilings. 
The Opposition has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading which effectively seeks that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted. The Government will oppose that amendment because we are quite satisfied that the provisions of this Bill drawn up, as I have indicated earlier, after exhaustive consultation with the staff associations, are adequate for the purposes of the Government and are fair and just in their application to public servants. The Opposition seeks that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to incorporate specific reasoning for termination of employment. I think any study of the Bill will show that the reasons why employment may be terminated, if there is an inability to redeploy, are fairly stated in the Bill and will be in the regulations under the Bill. 
The Opposition also seeks withdrawal and redrafting so that a comprehensive appeal system relating to termination of employment and redeployment may be provided. The Government is satisfied that the appeal provisions in the Bill are comprehensive and are fair and just in their application and will protect the individuals affected by any action to redeploy or terminate. In fact, there is no provision for appeal under sections 20, 67 and 85 of the existing Public Service Act, which do operate in this area of redeployment and termination of employment. If the Opposition believed that the present Bill was as bad as they say it is they would have the Public Service go back to the existing provisions of the Public Service Act in which there is no right of appeal at all. Indeed, the procedures are rather summary. I am quite sure that any fair comparative study of the existing provisions of the Public Service Act and the provisions of this special Bill will show that this Bill is much more effective and fair in its operation than the Public Service Act now is. 
The Opposition sought to argue that this Bill is tyrannical, inequitable and unfair, and that it is something unique and of evil design by this 
Government. I would refer the House to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. I do that for two purposes. The first is to show what is the truth and the second is to show up the Leader of the Opposition and the Shadow Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs in the arguments they used seeking to gain support for their comments from the recommendations of the royal commission. I refer the House to recommendation 178. 1 will take the time of the House to read that recommendation in full. The recommendation reads as follows: 
We recommend that the power to diagnose any excess of staff and to identify and take action regarding particular redundant officers under section 20- 
That is one of the sections of the Public Service Act which I referred to a moment ago. The recommendation continues- be delegated to departmental management The AuditorGeneral and the Public Service Board should aid departments in such diagnosis. However departments should only have power to retire such staff provisionally. The department should certify that no suitable alternative employment exists within the department. Before retirement is confirmed, the Public Service Board should see if there is any suitable alternative employment for the officer available within the Service. When an officer is judged redundant because of an assessment of relative worth or efficiency, appeal should be allowed through the promotions appeal committee procedures. 
Bear that in mind,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  against the kind of remarks that were made about the provisions in the Bill now before the House dealing with excessive staff. You will recall that the Opposition argued as if the provision in the Bill dealing with excessive staff was some kind of tyrannical exercise of power by the Government. Well, there it is. The royal commission itself recommended that there be specific procedures in relation to that situation. It furthermore recommended specific procedures regarding redundancy. The Opposition has referred to the phrase 'management initiated retirement' as a euphemism for sacking, termination, redundancy or whatever, but there it is. Recommendation 1 78 by the royal commission covered precisely the area covered by the Bill now before the House. 
The House will note that the recommendation also mentions an appeal being allowed through the promotions appeal committee procedures. This Bill provides for appeal procedures by way of a tripartite appeal tribunal, that is, made up of employers, management and a third person, in very much the same way as promotions appeal committees are made up on a tripartite basis and through procedures which are well known to the Public Service. It was the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  who made great play on the notion of mate-ship within the Public Service. Undoubtedly the notion of mate-ship is there as it is in many parts of Australian society. If the honourable gentleman has been involved in promotions appeals within the Public Service as I have representing appellants before such committees or appeal tribunals, he will realise that the appeal is with one member of the Public Service seeking to gain an advantage over another member of the Public Service, or the one who is appealing is challenging the promotion that has been given to a particular public servant. Of course, the appeal procedures provided for in this Bill are, in principle, of the same kind. So much for that accusation by the Opposition. The Opposition also sought to make great play - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Young's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Before the debate is resumed on this Bill may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure. I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and Supply Bill (No. 2) 1979-80 as they are associated measures. Of course, separate questions will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. Therefore I suggest that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The honourable gentleman has asked a series of questions which require detailed answers. I will refer the questions to the Attorney-General and provide the detail to the honourable member. However, I can indicate to the honourable member some of the circumstances that now apply and the measures that are being taken by the Attorney-General in this field. I am advised that the latest statistics prepared by the Family Court show that at the end of April 1979 just over 5,300 cases in the defended lists in all registries were awaiting hearing. The statistics vary from a high of approximately 1,800 cases in Melbourne to a low of 5 1 cases in Launceston. 
The honourable member would have noted that I referred to the defended lists. It is a fact that the majority of dissolution cases are undefended and are dealt with at the first hearing. The delay, where it does occur, is in defended cases and ancillary matters. The Attorney-General has said on several occasions that simply appointing more Family Court judges will not deal with the situation. He is reviewing the staffing situation in the courts to see what can be done to speed up the hearing of cases. 
The honourable gentleman asked whether or not there was a need for more marriage counselling. I understand that that matter will be the subject of inquiry by the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act. I think the honourable member can be well satisfied that the AttorneyGeneral is taking whatever steps are necessary to see that cases before the Family Court are speedily dealt with or otherwise is inquiring into the situation to see what might be done. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for the question. It follows a question that was asked of me the other day by the honourable member for Macquarie touching on very much the same subject. I think that the honourable member for Franklin has put his finger right on the policy area which is concerning this Government. If people choose to follow a life style from which they do not derive - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to enact the Excise Tariff alterations moved in the House on 27 February and 4 April 1979 by Excise Tariffproposals Nos 1, 2 and 3. The first alteration increased the excise duty on naturally occurring liquefied gas to $13 per kilolitre. This follows the announcement by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  on a package of measures designed to encourage the use of liquefied petroleum gas as an alternative energy source. The second alteration follows determination by the Minister for National Development of new import parity prices for the period 1 January to 30 June 1979 in accordance with the Government's decision that all Australian produced crude oil should be priced to refineries at import parity levels. The third alteration is complementary to alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966 contained in the Customs Tariff Amendment Act 1 979. A new item has been inserted in the Excise Tariff Act 1921 to provide for the duty free entry of goods, other than alcohol or tobacco, that are, at the time they are entered for home consumption, owned by certain authorities or bodies established for a purpose of the Commonwealth by or under an Act of the Commonwealth. This is an interim measure pending examination by the Government of which, if any, such authorities should receive exemption from customs or excise duties. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has informed me: 
At a meeting on 18 October 1978 officers of the Public Service Board agreed to provide staff associations with greater background information on the report of the Joint Review of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau. As it was an internal working document for management the Board considered that the report as such could not be released in full, but that a good deal of information would be made available to the staff associations concerned. This additional information covered the background to the review, terms of reference and other instructions to the team, a Development Training Memorandum issued to staff to inform them of the implications of the implementation of the new training principles and functional statements, organisation charts and duty statements for the proposed organisation. 
) At a meeting on 30 January 1 979, the staff associations were advised that while the Public Service Board could not agree to a general request for details on each of the hundreds of positions affected by the review, additional information would be provided where specific organisation, classification or other problems were indicated. The two staff associations subsequently wrote to the Public Service Board on a number of issues. These representations were considered by the Board and a detailed response was provided to the associations. 
At this point it is not intended that additional information will be provided as it is believed that the staff concerned and staff associations have been fully informed on the outcome of the review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
a ) two temporary staff. 
b ) thirty-one permanent staff. 
Department of Health and Medibank Offices, Parramatta (Question No. 3711)  Mr John  Brown asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
How many (a) temporary and (b) permanent staff are currently located at the office of (i) the Department of Health, 68 Macquarie Street, Parramatta, New South Wales, (ii) Medibank, 55 Phillip Street, Parramatta, and (Hi) Medibank, Westfield Shopping Town. 
It is a fact that employment in the Public Service is based on security of tenure. There has, however, always been provision within the Public Service Act for retrenchment of staff. The weakness of the existing provisions of the Public Service Act is that, if operated by the Board or departments, they are summary in nature and can work an injustice against staff members. The virtue of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill introduced by the Government is that it will provide effective appeal procedures which are entirely just to any staff member affected by retrenchment procedures. Honourable members are aware of the call by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association for widespread strike action in Canberra in particular and in the States. I can inform the House that this widespread strike action is really a very minimal action indeed. The advice I received this morning just before I came into the House is that so far as the Board has been able to ascertain at this stage 80 to 90 per cent of public servants have reported for duty. 
I also inform the House that there was an effort by ACOA to mount a massive ring-in to my office and also to the office of my colleague,  Senator Carrick.  The massive ring-in as a result of a public advertisement amounted to four phone calls. Two of those phone calls were against the Government and two were in favour of the Government. The two callers who spoke against the Bill to start off with were perfectly satisfied by the end of the conversation with a member of my staff with the explanations given. I have also been advised that a few staff are away in the Departments of Veterans' Affairs, Education, Health, the Capital Territory Health Commission, Postal and Telecommunications, Productivity- except for the Patents Office, my colleague will be pleased to knowAdministrative Services, Home Affairs- except for the office of Women's Affairs, my colleague will also be pleased to know- the Taxation Office and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  asserted in his contribution to this debate that the changes made by the Government to the home savings grant scheme by putting a ceiling of $35,000 to $40,000 on the value of a house and land which can attract the grant will create havoc within the industry. I am informed by my colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  that these proposed changes have been well received by the Housing Industry Association, the real estate associations and the bankers. 
In contrast, let me remind the honourable member for Griffith, who is a new member in this House, that it was the former Labor Government which abolished the home savings grants scheme then in operation. 
In making my contribution to this debate, let me say at the outset that this Government was elected at the end of 1975 on the promise of bringing back responsibility to economic management, of bringing a sick Australia tired of Labor excesses back to economic sanity. We have not faltered. Our over-riding promise to Australians was, and is, to restore economic growth. Last Thursday's statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is a mark of our responsible economic management. I believe that Australians generally see our new measures in this context. Competent administration carries with it the responsibility to take tough options, and to make tough decisions- and to take them and to make those decisions when they are necessary. As the Treasurer told the House last Thursday: 
No Australian Government in the post-war period has pursued expenditure restraint with such zeal and success as has this Government. We have maintained this course as a fundamental article of faith and will continue to do so. 
No Australian will forget that when we came to office at the end of 1975 we were faced with a set of economic problems far more severe than any experienced previously in the post-war period. We faced the problems of coping with the aftermath of a government whose expenditure was completely out of control- a government which had slashed tariffs, squeezed profits and caused a wages explosion. 
The inevitable outcome was spiralling inflation. This was then the fundamental problem and it is the fundamental problem now. This led to a sharp rise in unemployment, because of the following factors. 
Firms were less willing to invest because of the uncertainties created by higher inflation. Households also curtailed spending in the face of higher inflation. The higher rate of inflation in Australia vis-a-vis our trading partners weakened the competitive position of private enterprise, with the result that imports achieved substantial gains on most domestic markets. Exporters also suffered from this reduced competitiveness- manufactured exports, particularly, declined sharply after 1973-74. The combined effect of sharply rising wage costs, indiscriminate tariff cuts and weakening demand led to a sharp decline in business profitability. Private enterprise was left with no alternative but to reduce employment. 
There is a mistaken belief in many places that the fight against inflation is separate from the fight against unemployment. The reverse is the case. There can be no real and lasting security for jobs as long as inflation is out of control. The fight against inflation is an essential part of the fight against unemployment. To show this is a bipartisan view of the link between inflation and unemployment, let me quote something said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in his Budget Speech when he was Labor Treasurer in August 1975: He stated: 
Our present level of unemployment is too high. If we fail to control inflation unemployment will get worse. 
I quote again from that Budget Speech. He stated: 
In the context of an economy beginning to pick up, a deficit of the order initially projected - 
That is, of the order of $5,000m- would have been a prescription for accelerating inflation. Its acceptance would have been tantamount to abandoning concern with inflation, discarding our wages policies, condemning the corporate sector to an attack upon its profitability and threatening the future jobs of thousands of Australians- all at a time when the first signs of improvement in most of those respects are beginning to appear. 
I quote yet again from it. He said. 
Today, it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
That speech is recorded in  Hansard  of 19 August 1975 at page 53. I note that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  is listening attentively to what I have said in quoting the words of his leader. This Government has consistently adopted the position that sustained economic growth and a return to more satisfactory levels of employment are not possible unless the problem of inflation is overcome. That is why we have continuously sought to do the following: To reduce the rate of growth of Commonwealth outlays and reduce taxation, which has eased the pressures on the private sector through increased taxation and public sector borrowings; to achieve more moderate and stable growth in the money supply; and to argue consistently for wage restraint in an effort to ease the burden of wage costs on employers. The Commonwealth Government has consistently argued at national wage case hearings and elsewhere for wage restraint. We have maintained this resolve to restrain expenditure, to lower inflation and to lower taxation more than any other government in recent history. 
The measures taken last Thursday were necessary to ensure that renewed inflation would not result in consequence of an increasing deficit. The decisions to maintain taxation at its present level and to restrain expenditure were not easy ones. However, they were necessary to reestablish, to re-affirm and to reinforce the 
Government's policy to resist inflationary pressures which are re-emerging in the economy and to bring down a Budget which is responsible and which allows Australians to live within their means. There was a responsibility to get it right now and not to wait. However, our approach to budgetary restraint has been fair and equitable. We have ensured that those in need- the aged, the disadvantaged and the handicappedmaintain their benefits. At the same time, we have taken strong measures and will continue to do so to ensure that Commonwealth spending becomes more effective and more efficient. 
We have maintained these principles in the operations of the employment area. For example, we have introduced measures for the Special Youth Employment Training Program to ensure that those young people who are most disadvantaged, who have been unemployed for four months and who could not have obtained a job otherwise are those we are helping through that program. In times when the Government must contain its expenditure it has a duty to ensure that the money it spends is being spent wisely and well. In the weeks ahead we will tighten up our procedures to ensure that unemployment benefit is paid to those who are genuinely seeking work. It is our aim to ensure that those suffering hardship because of the lack of employment opportunities are protected, but at the same time- for the benefit of Australians as a whole, we need to ensure that those who are not genuinely seeking work should not be supported by the community. 
Apart from its policies designed to ensure a lasting recovery in the demand for labour, the Government has also acted to ensure that the labour supply is as well placed as possible to accommodate the processes of recovery and to help the unemployed. The Government has introduced a range of manpower and training programs to ensure that demand for particular labour skills can be satisfied now and during the recovery phase and maintain and improve the chances of the unemployed, especially our young unemployed, to obtain work. Together these programs will cost some $180m this financial year and will help over 200,000 people, many of them young people. Since coming to office more than 400,000 Australians have been assisted at a cost of more than $400m. That is an investment by this Government in people not matched by former governments. 
Let me remind honourable members of what happened to employment during the period of the Labor Government. Let me cite a few figures. In June 1974 registered unemployment stood at fewer than 80,000. Twelve months later registered unemployment had reached a quarter of a million people. Let me repeat some of the monthly details during this period. In August 1974 unemployment had reached 107,000; in September it was 121,000; in October, 150,000; November, 181,000; December, 267,000; and in January 1975 it reached 312,000 people. In five months 205,000 people were put out of work by the former Labor Government. 
I note that some of the more imaginative of the honourable members opposite have attempted to draw a contrast between the Treasurer and me on the employment situation. There is none. I have made no specific forecasts of the levels of unemployment in future months. There are too many variables and uncertainties associated with making such a forecast. It depends, for example, on the participation rates in employment, which have varied in recent years. Further the Government has often pointed to the relationship between higher wages, loss of employment opportunities and higher unemployment. The decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the current national wage case will have an important bearing on the employment prospects in the next few months. 
I have been cautious in pointing to the favourable trends which have emerged in employment figures in recent months. At the same time, we have seen hopeful signs of economic recovery and signs of an increase in business confidence. I have consistently pointed out that the only answer to concern about unemployment is a sustained growth in employment. Only economic growth can produce the necessary jobs. It is for this reason that I have continued to stress that 1979 is a critical year. At a time when inflationary pressures were re-emerging it was essential that the Government take action to restrain expenditure and contain the deficit. We are determined to preserve business confidence and to maintain the gains that had already been made in employment. That meant taking action now. The nexus between inflation and employment demanded that this be done. 
I would like to take a few minutes to comment on the profligate, scatter-gun, differing employment schemes of the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition and his employment spokesman, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  put forward job creation schemes at a conference in Adelaide only 10 days ago. The Leader of the Opposition brought forward a scheme to establish a community service corps on a voluntary basis at a cost of the order of $300m to $350m. At the same time the honourable member for Port Adelaide suggested an additional scheme based on the Canadian local initiatives program, again for 50,000 people. This was an even more expensive program costing about $500m. The Opposition has not learnt from its experience in government; its members continue to suggest overlapping, confused and extravagent schemes. I am told that the Leader of the Opposition outlined his scheme to the conference without the knowledge of his employment spokesman. This is another case of the right hand not knowing what the left hand is doing. Still not satisfied, the Leader of the Opposition has also proposed a scheme to increase capital spending by $450m in order to create 40,000 jobs. An increase in the deficit of $ 1,400m at this time would simply put us back to those high inflation days, with ballooning deficits which destroyed business confidence and took away far more jobs than they created. There is no substance to the Opposition's amendments before this House. The amendments deserve to be defeated. 
Motion ( by  Mr Viner)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Single persons over the age of 18 years who have an employment history of short-term seasonal work are work tested for fruit-picking vacancies outside the area in which they live. I am advised that it has not been the general practice in the CES to report to the Department of Social Security those without such a history who decline fruit-picking outside their local area. I am informed that during the recent grape harvest at Mildura when labour became scarce, the work test was applied in respect of these vacancies to a number of single males over the age of 1 8 years and residing in the Melbourne metropolitan area. 
Yes. 
I am advised the jobs offered permanent employment in Melbourne. 
The administration of the work test is currently under review to achieve uniformity of administration. 
-The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
and (2) The CES does not keep statistics of persons offered employment. It keeps account of (a) those referred and (b) those placed in jobs but the statistics do not distinguish between unemployed persons receiving unemployment Benefit and unemployed persons not receiving Benefit. The percentage you requested is not, therefore, available. However, it is known that as part of its normal fruit harvest operations the office sent approximately 2000 letters to its clients, most of them in receipt of Unemployment Benefit, offering assistance in securing jobs in fruit and vegetable picking. The outcome of these operations up to 2 March 1979 was that 4027 fruit and vegetable picking vacancies were filled and 1 79 persons were reported to the Department of Social Security as having failed the work test by declining to accept this work. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, but Work Test statistics are not kept for towns in or sections of a CES area. 
Yes, I am informed that there was no need for persons who were registered with the CES at Echuca or Rochester and who were suitable for harvest work to be work tested against fruit picking vacancies at Kyabram. I am advised there were sufficient local vacancies for tomato pickers against which such people were work tested. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no way of knowing the total number of persons who were registered with the CES in Melbourne and who voluntarily travelled to the Shepparton district in February 1979 to pick fruit or tomatoes. Many travelled to Shepparton on their own initiative and with the assistance of the CES at Shepparton and Kyabram obtained jobs, but a count was not kept. It is known, however, that during the four weeks ended 2 March 1979 252 persons were referred and placed in the Shepparton CES area directly by Melbourne suburban offices of the CES. 
Of the 232 persons placed by Melbourne suburban CES Offices 213 were males and 39 were females and all required accommodation at the place of employment. Statistics are not available concerning the number who were under 18 years, who were married and who required return rail fares or other transport assistance. 
On 2 March 1979, the last day of the CES February statistics period, there were 66 unfilled vacancies for fruit or tomato pickers held by the Shepparton CES office. 
Milk Prices in Canberra  (Question No. 3396) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department has found no evidence of a shortage of tomato pickers in the Echuca area during the 1979 harvest period. Up to 28 March growers from the Echuca, Rochester and Tongala districts had lodged 131 vacancies with the CES Office at Echuca. All vacancies had been filled promptly and the Office could have supplied more pickers. 
My Department is not aware of any tomato crop losses in the area due to labour shortages. 
I am informed that a meeting of tomato growers was held at the cannery of Plumrose (Australia) Ltd in Echuca on 9 March 1979. This meeting was attended by the Manager of the CES office at Echuca for the purpose of explaining how the CES could assist in recruiting tomato pickers. 
I understand that some growers at the meeting expressed views on the payment of Unemployment Benefits. The CES Manager explained to them that better communication of their labour requirements and of instances where persons referred to them had not commenced work, or had commenced but left, would assist the application of the work test. I am advised that since the meeting an improvement in communication has been apparent. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) On the basis of these factors, yes. 
Very little. In 1976 the Australian Statistician advised that because of the apparent change in the seasonal pattern of registered unemployment associated with the very large increase in the level of unemployment during 1974 and 1975, the seasonally adjusted series could no longer be regarded as a reliable guide to the underlying trend in the level of unemployment. 
Having listened to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  presenting himself as spokesman for the Opposition in manpower matters, I can understand why the Opposition does not hold very much hope for being able to develop concrete and sensible manpower policies. The very purpose of the creation of my Department, the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, was to enable the Government to give greater concentration to this area of government policy. As the months go by, as my Department has the opportunity to concentrate its efforts and its intellect to this area, so the people of Australia will see the benefit of the decision of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to create this special department. 
Might I also remind the House that it was this Government which instituted the Crawford inquiry into structural change and the Williams inquiry into the relationship between education and work. Both of these reports were relied on by the honourable gentleman in his speech. As the examination by the Government of those two reports unfolds and is completed, the people of Australia, particularly young people entering the work force and those who are in the work force seeking retraining, and industry, which needs highly skilled and competent work force, will see the benefit of the Government's consideration. 
Let me make three short comments on particular parts of the honourable gentleman's speech. I would like to comment firstly on the National Employment and Training scheme funding for the handicapped. Let me say to the House straight away that NEAT funding of programs for the handicapped to aid them in their transition from school to work will continue. In regard to the honourable gentleman's comments about bringing migrants with special skills from overseas, Australia for many many years has depended upon migrants of this calibre, with skills, to come to Australia to serve the needs of industry and commerce and to help to develop our great country. This Government will continue to offer new opportunities to people from overseas who have the skills which we require to take advantage of those opportunities in a country which provides them. 
The honourable gentleman must know that shortages of skills are local and regional and that they vary according to different industries and different needs. Australia has not all the specialised skills that we require. I do not think that it will be able to develop them from within its own resources for some time. One reason for this Government sending a mission overseas to examine skill training in other countries which have comparable economies and industry bases to Australia is to provide the Government with expert advice on what we might do in the future to lift our level of skill training. I am not talking simply of trade training but the level of skill under the tradesmen- a whole range of technical and specialised skill which Australia will need in the future. 
The honourable gentleman spoke of funding technical institutions and funding tertiary institutions. He obviously is quite unaware of the shift in priorities, which this Government has made quite consciously, so as to provide more funds to the technical and further education field. I am quite sure that when my colleague the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  announces the expenditure programs for education for the next financial year it will be seen that this priority in favour of tertiary institutions is maintained. 
The honourable gentleman spoke of the socalled hidden unemployed. It is, of course, a convenient description for him to use to try to cloud the issue and confuse the minds of the Australian people and those who are looking for work. Let me refer to the facts of the matter. The preliminary statements giving results of a special survey of persons not in the labour force, as at March 1979, including discouraged job seekers, refer to 524,600 people who would have or might have liked a job at the time of the survey. Of those, 402,800 people were not looking for work because of personal or family considerations. Notwithstanding that fact, the honourable gentleman and the Opposition wish to lump that half a million people on top of the number of unemployed registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service or the number of unemployed according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey. 
There were 63,400 discouraged job seekers. They wanted a job but were not looking for work because they believed that there were no suitable jobs in their locality or in their line of work. In other words, they were selfishly looking at their own personal needs. For that reason they were discouraged from looking for work. Employers considered them either too young or too old. That is perfectly understandable in the demographic makeup of Australian society. There were some who lacked necessary training skills or experience, or who had language or racial difficulties. There were indeed, 1 1,200 who were not looking for work because they believed there were no jobs with suitable hours. In other words, for personal reasons they were highly selective as to the jobs they were taking. When people speak of the hidden unemployed, I think they ought to do so on the basis of fact and not on the basis of specious argument of the kind we have heard here today. 
I really am astounded at the impertinence of the Opposition for advancing this matter of public importance. We have a record which is unmatched by previous Australian governments, particularly the previous Labor administration. We have introduced a number of manpower programs, particularly geared to young people, to overcome labour market difficulties. I might mention some of them. These programs provide people with skills and work experience to enhance their prospects of stable employment. That is the object of these programs of the Government. Vocational training under NEAT has been expanded and brought closer to the productive requirements of industry and the employment needs of individuals. As I said to the Victorian Branch of the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia only recently, I see one of the fundamental purposes of my Department as being to serve the needs of industry and commerce and, through them, to serve the interests of individuals who wish to enter the work force. 
Special training programs for the disadvantaged have also been expanded under NEAT and a new employment and training strategy has been launched to assist Aboriginals. I know from my three years of experience as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs how important that is to Aboriginals throughout Australia. The number of trainees under NEAT, including the Special Youth Employment Training Program, has increased dramatically since this Government came to office in late 1975. In all, at a cost of some $400m, over 400,000 people have been assisted by various programs, including NEAT, SYETP, the Community Youth Support Scheme, the apprenticeship support scheme and the Education Program for Unemployed Youth. In these programs we have given particular emphasis to the young and the disadvantaged. This year our expenditure on manpower will be about $180m. Again, as I said last night in the debate on the 
Treasurer's statement of last Thursday, this is a solid investment of large amounts of money, consistently over the years, by this Government in people. 
The programs, to which I have briefly referred, are designed to ensure that demand for particular labour skills can be satisfied now and during the recovery phase of the economy and to maintain and improve the chances of the unemployed obtaining work. It was this Government which introduced the following programs: The Special Youth Employment Training Program, which I have already mentioned, has helped some 150,000 young unemployed since it was introduced in October 1976. Late last year the Government authorised a change in the guidelines for the provision of training benefits under this program. We were afraid that much of the money that we had invested in young people in particular was being used by employers as a subsidy for labour that they would normally have employed at their own expense. We believed that the taxpayers' money- it is their money- put into the SYETP should be directed to those in real need of assistance. So, we introduced measures to ensure that these young people, who are the most disadvantaged, who have been unemployed for four months and who could not have obtained a job otherwise, will be the ones who will be helped through the SYETP. In times when the Government must contain its expenditure, I believe we have a firm duty to ensure that the money it spends is spent wisely and well. In this field it means that the money should be used not as a subsidy to employers but as a positive benefit to the young people who need help. As a result, fewer people will be assisted under the SYETP- for the reasons I have just explained, that is perfectly understandablebut I believe that the fewer people will receive a greater benefit than the greater number of people who were helped by way of a subsidy to employers. 
The Community Youth Support Scheme has helped 50,000 persons since its inception in November 1976. The Education Program for Unemployed Youth has helped 7,400 young people since it was introduced in July 1977. From speaking to my colleagues I know how valuable the EPUY has been to young school leavers who, because of low educational standards or for other personal reasons, find it difficult to cope with the current labour market. The Relocation Assistance Scheme has helped 2,600 people to move to areas where there were vacancies. The Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training program, or CRAFT as we know it, has helped 67,000 apprentices since it was introduced in January 1977. 1 have recently told the House of my acceptance of the National Training Council's proposal for a complementary trade training program which will assist older people who have not gone through the normal apprenticeship system at the late teenage stage of their lives but who wish to obtain a trade skill. Where there is a shortage of skilled people in industry, this complementary trade training program could be a very valuable addition in serving the needs of industry. 
Against that short background, whatever the honourable member for Port Adelaide might have said in this debate, I feel that anybody examining the facts of the matter will understand that this Government has a record unmatched by any recent government. We all recall the extravagances, the abuse, the pork barrelling of the former Labor Government's Regional Employment Development scheme. It was called a job creation scheme; but those who had anything to do with it know that it served no useful long-term and sustained purpose for the benefit of the unemployed and certainly did not aid at all in achieving economic recovery. It may well have been a short-term palliative to the unemployment then faced by the Labor Government, but it was certainly not a lasting answer to the needs of the unemployed. We know what the Labor Government did to cope with the massive rise in unemployment it created. In June 1974 registered unemployment stood at less than 80,000 and, under Labor, within 12 months registered unemployment had reached a quarter of a million. The honourable member for Port Adelaide, who has spoken in this debate, knows that between August 1974 and January 1975 unemployment rose from 107,000 to 312,000. And therein lies the source of this Government's present difficulty. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his question because he has enabled the attention of the House to be focused on the employment record of this Government. A number of people are confused when they see the number of unemployed registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service or the number of unemployed as surveyed by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Nevertheless, there is an increasing demand for employment from industry and commerce. It is for that reason that the man or woman in the street continually asks the Government and me: 'What about the registered unemployed if there are these jobs available in the factories and the shops of Australia?' The fact of the matter is that in seasonally adjusted terms the number of civilian employees in March 1979 increased by 8,100, that is 3,700 males and 4,400 females. That was the ninth consecutive monthly increase in seasonally adjusted terms- an increase, I inform the House, of 56,200 since June 1978. That increase, of course, matches the Government's commitment to economic growth as the source of employment growth which will in turn provide jobs for those coming into the work force and those who are presently unemployed. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) My Department is currently considering the proposal for a National Black Health Program. My colleague, the Minister for Health, also received a copy of the proposal. 
I do not know which State authorities are examining the submission. I have not received any correspondence on this matter from the State health authorities. 
Consideration of the proposal will involve an analysis of the costing. This consideration is not yet complete. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) No. I am not aware of their total holdings or the annual rental charges. 
and (4) While I do not have first hand knowledge, I understand from sources available to me that the situation described by  Dr Everingham  is the case. 
Yes. However in the course of examing the request it was established that the area delineated covered approximately 800 square miles not 100 as represented. Lengthy discussions and on site inspections with the Gordon Downs Group have occurred and representatives of the Group met with the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the Aboriginal Lands Trust representatives in March 1979. At this meeting they undertook to define and confirm the area desired, the information being received by the Aboriginal Lands Trust on 1 May 1979. 
Negotiations are being conducted between the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission on behalf of the Federal Government and the Aboriginal Lands Trust, the WA Department of Lands and Surveys and station leaseholders for the acquisition of an area of approximately 800 square miles. 
International Conference on Kampuchea  (Question No. 3719) 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department has not commissioned or conducted any opinion polls or surveys since 1975. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No, this has not been necessary because as indicated by the Minister for Administrative Services in his answer to Question 3623  (Hansard,  1 May 1979, page 1716) the Australian Electoral Office is developing a program which, with the co-operation of State Governments, includes information about State electoral procedures. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2 ) See my reply to Question 3295  (Hansard, 29  March 1979, page 1381). Discussions with the State Government are continuing on arrangements between the Governments on ways in which the reasonable aspirations of all reserve communities in Queensland may be met. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
The Commonwealth's position, which relates both to Commonwealth laws and international obligations was discussed in the debate on the Matter of Public Importance in the House of Representatives on 5 April 1979. 
We debated this clause at length in the Committee stage of the Bill. As I did then and as I do now, I give my assurance that before regulations are prepared and promulgated there will be consultation with staff organisations. A week or so before the second reading debate was resumed in this House I wrote to  Mr Gradwell  of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations informing him that after the Bill had been passed by Parliament and had received the assent of the Governor-General I would be happy for discussions to take place with his organisation on a number of matters about which  Mr Gradwell  was concerned. I also recently advised the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association that the same consultations will be held with that organisation. I have sought to make it quite clear to CAGEO and ACOA that after the Bill passes the Parliament and receives the assent of the Governor-General there will be full and complete consultation with those organisations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The following information has been obtained from departments and authorities: 
(i) Two hundred and two units including 126 automatic typewriters. 
Two hundred and seventy-one units including 148 automatic typewriters. 
b ) Forty-five typist positions have been relinquished. 
(i) It is estimated that156 workstations, including 2 automatic typewriters, will be installed in 1978-79. 
It is estimated that 49 workstations, including 1 automatic typewriter, will be installed in 1978-79. 
It is estimated that 36 typist positions will be relinquished in 1978-79. 
It should also be noted that the majority of installations quoted in 2 (c) above will be in replacement of existing automatic typewriter installations and that all machine numbers given refer to keyboard /workstations. With regard to 2 (b) and 2(d) above, I have been advised by the Public Service Board that no typists have been retrenched from the Australian Public Service as a result of the introduction of word processing equipment, and that no retrenchments are expected as a consequence of installations now planned. (Note: The information provided is based upon information current at the end of 1 978. ) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The report is not wholly accurate because it fails to mention that the apprentices involved are not permanent Commonwealth employees but were given training places under the provisions of the Additional Apprentices Training Scheme. Apprentices taken on under the Scheme were surplus to Departmental requirements and were employed on the understanding that at completion of their apprenticeship they would be released to take up employment as tradesmen in the private sector. As at 18 May 1979, employment in the private sector has been arranged for 13 of the 16 apprentices referred to in the  Age  report; the remaining 3 have been placed with the Department of Transport. 
) Staff ceilings have not caused the dismissal of any apprentices by Government Departments in the years cited. 
During the remainder of 1978-79, twelve apprentices being trained under the Additional Apprentices Scheme will complete their indentures. Their training locations are set out below: 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to remove doubts that have arisen as to whether, as a matter of law, the provisions made by section 3 of the Judiciary (Diplomatic Representation) Act 1977 in relation to  Mr Justice  Fox's service and salary while performing the functions of AmbassadoratLarge apply to his service under extensions of the original term of his appointment.  Mr Justice  Fox's term of appointment was extended from the original period of 12 months for a period of a little more than two months in October 1978 and for a period of some further five months in January 1 979. It is now proposed, and  Mr Justice  Fox has agreed, that his term be further extended from 8 June, when his present extension will expire, until the end of next year. The doubts that have arisen are legal, technical matters and the Government feels that  Mr Justice  Fox's rights should not be left in any doubt. The position was quite clear under the 1977 Act in relation to his original term of appointment and the amendments will merely put beyond question that those rights continue to apply, and have continued to apply, in relation to the extensions of his term that have already taken place and to any future extension that may be approved by the Governor-General. When the 1977 Bill was before the Parliament the Government indicated that the time  Mr Justice  Fox would be engaged on his work as Ambassador-at-Large would be at least 12 months, but might well be longer. Experience has proved this forecast to be correct and it has already been found desirable to extend  Mr Justice  Fox 's appointment beyond the initial period of 12 months. 
The work on which  Mr Justice  Fox has been engaged as Ambassador-at-Large for nuclear non-proliferation and safeguards is, in the view of the Government, work of great national importance. He has been engaged in extensive international consultations on non-proliferation issues and has, in these consultations, conveyed the Government's concern for a stronger world non-proliferation regime. He has travelled extensively and tirelessly in Asia, Western and Eastern Europe and North America and has made an important contribution to international understanding on nuclear non-proliferation questions. Late last year  Mr Justice  Fox led the Australian delegation to the mid-term plenary conference of the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation. The International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation  is  due to hold its concluding conference in 1980. As a result of the study made by that Conference, there is likely to be international consideration of important proposals for strengthening the international non-proliferation regime in a number of areas. For this reason the Government is grateful that he has agreed to delay his return to judicial duties and continue in this vital role. The Government believes that  Mr Justice  Fox will be able to make his own special contribution to policy in all these fields and will be an invaluable adviser to the Government on nuclear matters. As I indicated earlier in my remarks the amendment embodied in the Bill before the House is of a technical nature and I hope that the House will give it a speedy passage. I there commend the BUI to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-The Government is not prepared to accept this amendment. I point out to honourable members what was said by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in the Senate, that the work in which  Mr Justice  Fox is engaged is expected to conclude towards the end of 1980 and, therefore, he has been appointed by the Government until 31 December 1980.  His  actual appointment was not made by legislation and it is not being extended by this amending Bill.  His  appointment was an executive act. This legislation is designed simply to preserve his rights as a judge during the period of his appointment. 
I would have thought that to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  the latter being a lawyer, the position as explained by the Attorney-General would have been quite clear. Therefore, it is also abundantly clear that the amendment put forward by the Opposition is quite misconceived. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-The answer to the honourable  member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Taking into account present supply rates and reasonable growth projections for skilled occupations, inadequate supplies seem rather more likely in trade areas than in professional areas and particularly in three large trade groups. These are metal machining trades, repairman/mechanic trades of all kinds, and non-electrical construction trades. 
) The most direct action which the Government can take to increase the supply of tradesmen in general is to encourage employers to train more apprentices. Under the CRAFT Scheme, employers are paid a subsidy for each day an apprentice is away at school during paid working hours. Yearly intake figures since the introduction of CRAFT in January 1977 have indicated that there has been an increase in the general level of national apprentice intakes. 
Tradesmen shortages in specific trade groups and locations have been the subject of a proposal by the National 
Training Council to introduce trade training programs complementary to apprenticeship. These programs would be directed at eligible unemployed young persons in the 18-22 year age group and would be based on established or forecast tradesmen deficiencies. I fully support these programs and have given approval for my Department to have discussions with employers, unions and State authorities on the introduction of pilot programs for metal trades in those localities where they are most needed. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth Employment Service staff are under instructions not to refuse any claims for unemployment benefit as the determination of such claims is a matter for the Department of Social Security. 
My Department has no knowledge of these instructions being breached in Queensland or anywhere else. However, if details of specific cases can be supplied they will be investigated. 
I do not know whether it is a fact. I will make inquiries and advise the honourable member. However, as I have said before, there will be consultations with the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association after the legislation is passed by Parliament and is assented to by the GovernorGeneral. That assurance has been given in correspondence to both organisations. 
Pursuant to section 97 of the Legal Aid Ordinance 1977 I present the annual report of the Legal Aid Commission (Australian Capital Territory) for the period 1 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled: Employment Prospects by Industry and Occupation- A Labour Market Analysis'. 
Yesterday I was asked a question by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  I answered by saying that I would obtain information and provide it to him.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I crave your indulgence to provide that information to the House? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of persons who took up cadetships offered by the Public Service Board in professional areas in the calendar years 1 975-78 were as follows: 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department requires, as a condition of each grant, that the recipient provide audited reports of expenditure. These are not always sufficiently detailed to provide the information requested and extracting such relevant information as is available would be a costly and time-consuming exercise, which I do not consider justified. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All the matters mentioned in the question were considered during the recent review of the Unemployment Benefit work test. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The numbers of persons residing at each of the following centres who registered with the CES for employment during the four weeks ended 2 March 1979, together with the number of unemployed awaiting placement on that date, are shown below insofar as they are available from CES statistics: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In terms of manpower planning and forecasting for community needs, it would not be possible to identify the total resources employed by the Department without incurring a cost which I do not believe is justified. 
Elements of the CES, as well as establishment in regional and central offices of my Department, are engaged in activities which can be described as related to the processes of manpower planning and forecasting. 
Further expansion of this work is for consideration by the Government as part of its examination of the recommendations of the Crawford and Williams inquiries. 
Woomera: Persons Employed in Services Canteen  (Question No. 3521) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1977, the number of apprentices generating CRAFT Technical Education Rebate was as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) Seven opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by my Department since 1 975: 1975- Nil. 
1976- 1. 
1977- 2. 
1978- 3. 
1979- (todate) 1. 
All surveys have been completed. 
1976- (a) Company commissioned: None, survey carried out by Department. 
Subject matter and purpose: Survey of employer attitudes to the Commonwealth Employment Service- in connection with the (Norgard ) Review of the CES. 
Cost: Not applicable. 1 977- Project 1- (a) Company commissioned: None, survey carried out by Department. 
Subject matter and purpose: Survey of unqualified persons employed as tradesmen. Survey prepared for the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. 
Cost: Not applicable. 
Project 2- (a) Company commissioned: Bruce Smith Pty Ltd and Margot Weir. 
Subject matter and purpose: The purpose of this study was to test the awareness, knowledge and usage of Employer Assistance Training schemes prior to and after advertising campaigns. 
Cost: $2,000. 1978- Project 1- (a) Company commissioned: None, survey carried out by Department. 
Subject matter and purpose: The purpose of this study was to test awareness and usage of the CES Job Show. 
Cost: Not applicable. 
Project 2- (a) Company commissioned: International Public Relations. 
Subject matter and purpose: Survey on behalf of the National Training Council to determine industry attitudes to training. The survey was conducted among companies, industry association and trade unions. 
Cost: $3,000. 
Project 3- (a) Company commissioned: None, survey carried out by Department. 
Subject matter and purpose: Survey of 200 unemployed school leavers in Sydney and Melbourne. Results of the survey were submitted to the (Williams) Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training as part of the submission of the Office of Youth Affairs. 
Cost: $3,500 (cost of services of 7 outside interviewers). 1979- (a) Company commissioned: Nexus Research. 
Subject matter and purpose: Survey of 350 employers to provide information on the level of awareness of youth employment training schemes, in particular the Special Youth Employment Training Programme. 
Cost: $2,000. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1 am not aware that any officers of my Department involved with the Community Youth Support Scheme are able to communicate with participants in languages other than English. Departmental officers are not in fact required to communicate extensively with CYSS participants. This is undertaken by the CYSS Project Officers who are in turn employed by the CYSS Committees which supervise the projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) CRAFT rebates are not paid to State Governments but are paid directly to State Government establishments concerned. Since the introduction of CRAFT in January 1977 the following amounts have been paid to such establishments: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The National Aboriginal Conference forwarded a copy of its resolution to me and to all members of Parliament. 
I am considering the resolution and will respond to the National Aboriginal Conference in due course. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (3) A question in similar terms was asked of me in the Senate by  Senator Robertson  and I refer the honourable member to the answer I then gave  (Hansard,  22 May 1979, p. 1905). 
Charge against Torres Strait Islander (Question No. 3995) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service has advised that  Mr Ware  is eligible for assistance, but that to date the Service has not been approached by him. 
(a) and (b) My Department provides financial assistance to the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service which is well situated to represent indigenous people in such situations. In the 1978-79 financial year, this Service received $9 1 2,000 from my Department. 
Remedies are available under the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 to persons suffering from any acts of discrimination to which that Act applies. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) My Department has been searching continuously since February 1975 for satisfactory accommodation for the Northcote CES office. 
No. Leasing arrangements have been completed to relocate the present Northcote CES office to Queens Parade, Clifton Hill. 
Yes. 
and (5 ) It was not until May 1979 that the Department of Social Security decided to proceed with establishing a Northcote Regional office. By that time my Department was irrevocably committed to its Clifton Hill premises. Officers of my Department had discussions with the Northcote City Council earlier this year but the Council was unable to assist in locating suitable premises within its municipality. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The question apparently refers to 'discouraged job seekers' the subject of special surveys carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. According to the preliminary results of the latest survey conducted in March 1979, there were an estimated 63,400 'discouraged jobseekers' in Australia. 
Data provided by the ABS monthly population survey show that in April 1 979 there were 125,000 persons working part-time who would have preferred to work full-time. Of these, 43, 100 were actually looking for full-time work. 
There are no estimates of the number of persons who have withdrawn from the work force but who would prefer to work if jobs were available. 
None. 
The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs has asked the Australian Bureau of Statistics to undertake surveys of discouraged jobseekers. 
Accommodation at Palm Island  (Question No. 4011) 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Priorities for Departmental funding were discussed during Area Advisory Committee meetings held in the QED (Townsville) Area in March and August/September last year and accommodation for single meetings, delegates preferring to support grants for family accommodation. But if the Palm Island community wishes to give priority to single accommodation, any request to my Department will be duly considered. In addition, proposals for the provision of hosteltype accommodation could be submitted to Aboriginal Hostels Ltd. 
The rate at which housing needs of Aboriginals can be met depends only in part upon budgetary decisions of the Commonwealth Government. It is also influenced by the priorities which Aboriginals in different communities and regions attach to the provision of housing as compared with programs to meet other needs and by the extent to which State Governments through their housing authorites give priority to the housing needs of Aboriginals eligible for welfare housing. 
Budget allocations to my Department for the year 1 979-80 are yet to be determined. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I replied to  Dr Everingham  by letter on 24 April. 
Officers of my Department have attempted to bring  Dr Ivory  and the directors of Trinity Lane Hostel together in order to discuss and resolve the matters at issue.  Dr Ivory  has not been prepared to attend a meeting at which the  President  of the Board of Directors was present. In the circumstances, I do not see that my Depanment can take any further steps. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) No information is available on the number of civilians who were employed as at 30 June in each year from 1 970. Information in respect of civilians who were employed as at February, May, August and November of each year is available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics publications 'The Labour Force No. 6203.0 and No. 6204.0. ' 
The information may be obtained from the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication 'Population and Vital Statistics No. 321 1.0'. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Employment Service does not discriminate between migrants (including refugees) and Australian citizens with respect to any aspect of job placement, work test or training programs. It does, however, give particular consideration to meeting the special needs of nonEnglish speaking clients by the provision of CES staff who are bi-lingual or multi-lingual. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Approximately 0.5 percent. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There have been five main changes. 
and (3) The changes were, in brief, that persons who ( a ) place themselves in a situation where they are likely to remain unemployed or move to an area where opportunities are severely limited; (b) present themselves to employers in a manner which is clearly inappropriate to the employment sought; (c) seek only occupations for which they are not qualified or are extremely rare will be considered not to have satisfied the work test ( announced January 1976). 
A further change made was in the definition of suitable work to allow the CES to extend the range of jobs to which beneficiaries could be referred after they had been in receipt of benefit fora reasonable period (announced March 1976). 
Graduates were to accept any suitable work after six weeks, even if this involved a change in anticipated status or wages (announced July 1977). 
No such statistics are maintained by my Department. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department does not maintain statistics on these particular matters. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( I ), (2) (3) Statistics of telegrams sent in relation to Community Youth Support Scheme projects are not separately recorded. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) Commonwealth Employment Service statistics relate to the Friday nearest the end of the month. Classification of vacancies by sex was discontinued in 1978. Subject to these reservations, the information sought may be found in the relevant issues of the  Monthly Review of the Employment Situation  published by my Department. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$50,000. 
)  Mr FC.  J. Fitzgerald undertook the mission in his role as acting First Assistant Secretary, Manpower Development and Operations No. 1 Division and Executive Director of the National Training Council. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs is drawing up a proposal to transfer certain Central Office departmental elements from Melbourne to Canberra. The elements for transfer and the program schedule are subject to consideration by the Standing Interdepartmental Committee on Location of Australian Government Employment. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An estimated $ 1 00,000. 
Medical Fees: Bulk-billing  (Question No.  3888) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act which provides paid maternity leave for Commonwealth public servants received Royal Assent on 18 June 1973 and the Act contained provision for retrospective payments for maternity leave absences since 1 January 1973. The Board, however, does not have information on the numbers of women taking paid maternity leave in the period 1 January to 30 June 1973. 
The administration of the Act is decentralised, so that precise cost figures are not readily available. However for PublicService Act employees the Board has provided the following cost estimates: 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Government is proceeding in accordance with the motion passed by the Senate in its debate on the Report on 5 April 1979. 
As the honourable gentleman indicated in his question, I have received a number of representations about the role of the Commonwealth Employment Service and, in particular, its Professional Employment Office section in relation to the activities of private personnel placement agencies. I have also recently received a report from the advisory committee to the Commonwealth Employment Service. That committee held some discussions with representatives of the private personnel agencies. Out of both the representations I have received from government members and the advice I have received from the advisory committee, I hope that I will be able to establish a situation in which each section will have its own role in this field. Historically the CES and PEO have always offered their services to employees or prospective employees who want assistance in obtaining employment. 
There is a role for the CES in the area of those seeking temporary employment as well as those seeking permanent full-time employment, but I do see a need to rationalise both areas. This will come about through discussions between myself and the private personnel agencies. I have already had those discussions. I will take the representations and the advice I have received from the CES advisory committee into account. 
For the information of honourable members I present the comments of the Australian Science and Technology Council on Australia 's Antarctic program. 
Pursuant to section 48 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 as applied by section 3 of the Foreign Antitrust Judgments (Restriction of Enforcement) Act 1979 I present an order made by the Attorney-General under section 3 of the Foreign Antitrust Judgments (Restriction of Enforcement) Act 1979 together with the text of a statement by the AttorneyGeneral relating to the order. 
Pursuant to section 37 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 I present a report of the Law Reform Commission on unfair publication, defamation and privacy, together with the text of a statement by the Attorney-General relating to the report. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question after making inquiries from the Registries of the Courts concerned: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am advised that the Attorney-General's Department commissioned or carried out two opinion polls or surveys during the period mentioned. Both have been completed. 
In 1975 the Australian Legal Aid Office (ALAO) commissioned Australian National Opinion Polls to determine public awareness of the ALAO. The cost was $6,200. 
In 1978 the Attorney-General's Department carried out a survey on the effect of increasing the minimum period for giving notice of intended marriage from 7 days to1 month as a result of a change to s. 42 (2) of the Marriage Act 1961, by the Marriage Amendment Act 1 976. As the survey was conducted by officers of the Attorney-General's Department, it was not costed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1 ), (2) and (3) The Public Service Board does not record information regarding the place of birth of staff of the Australian Public Service. The practice of recording such information was discontinued in August 1 974 in line with a general approach not to seek from applicants data that is unnecessary and could be regarded as discriminatory. 
and  (5)  Recommendations 1 17 to 1 19 of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration regarding the nationality requirement for permanent appointment to the Australian Public Service are currently under consideration. Options such as that recommended by RCAGA, or a general requirement for Australian citizenship, are being evaluated. 
Applicants for temporary employment in the Australian Public Service are not required to satisfy any requirements with regard to nationality. No information is recorded in respect of the number of applicants for permanent appointment to the Australian Public Service who were ineligible on nationality grounds. 
The following nations are classified as Commonwealth countries for the purposes of section 34 (a) of the Public Service Act: Commonwealth of the Bahamas, People's Republic of Bangladesh, Barbados, Republic of Botswana, Canada, Republic of Cyprus, Fiji, the Gambia, Republic of Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, Republic of India, Jamaica, Republic of Kenya, Kingdom of Lesotho, Republic of Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Republic of Nauru, New Zealand, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Independent State of Papua New Guinea, Republic of Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Sri Lanka, Kingdom of Swaziland, United Republic of Tanzania, Kingdom of Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, United Kingdom and Colonies, Independent State of Western Samoa, Republic of Zambia. (Listing derived from s. 7(2) of the Australian Citizenship Act.) 
See answers to ( 1 ) to (3) above. 
Yes, in so much as those residents are not eligible for permanent appointment to the Australian Public Service. I am advised that Section 34 (a) of the Public Service Act is not in contravention of the Racial Discrimination Act nor of relevant international conventions. 
See answer to (4 ) above. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
'A Chronicle of the Aboriginal Health Programme 1972-1977', prepared by the Queensland Department of Health claims that there has been a general decrease in the incidence of problems associated with ear discharges at the fourteen Aboriginal communities surveyed in Queensland, but does not provide any figures for all Aboriginal children in rural Queensland. 
The Chronicle lists the average monthly number of cases of ear discharge at the communities surveyed as: 
In the 1978-79 financial year, $93,500 was allocated by my Department to the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement to fund a hearing conservation program administered by the Queensland Department of Child Health and the University of Queensland to provide both a preventive and clinical service to Aboriginals. The program has been funded since 1974-75, and in that period a total of $398,500 has been provided. 
In addition to this specific project, finance is provided annually by my Depanment to the Queensland Department of Health for general preventive community health programs among Aboriginals. In 1978-79 some $2,513,500 was allocated for this purpose. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There is no land claim in the Lake Nash region under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. An application for land at Lake Nash was lodged with the Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner, the late  Mr Justice  Ward, in September 1975 but hearings were adjourned sine die on 10 November 1975 because the lessee indicated a willingness to negotiate with the Aboriginals for a sub-lease of part of the property to be used as a living area for the resident Aboriginal community. The Northern Territory Crown Lands Act has been amended to allow for sub-leases of pastoral leases to Aboriginal communities, and the amendment was proclaimed in February 1979. The Lake Nash lessee had decided against a sub-lease but negotiations about a suitable area have been reopened. 
, (3) and (4) All pastoral leases in the Northern Territory contain reservations in favour of the Aboriginal inhabitants of the Territory. These rights are defined in Section 24 of the Northern Territory Crown Lands Act. The only penalty for failure to comply with the conditions of a lease was forfeiture of the lease. In the 1974 Second Report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission,  Mr Justice  Woodward commented that 'this is obviously a very drastic penalty and it is not surprising that it has never been invoked' (paragraph 218). In consequence, he recommended the provision of realistic penalties to secure Aboriginal rights. In line with  Mr Justice  Woodward 's recommendation, the amended provision now provides a penalty of $2,000 for interference with the full and free exercise of the rights reserved to Aboriginals. The enforcement of the Act is the responsibility of the Northern Territory Government. 
The Central Australian Aboriginal Congress is supported with grants from my Depanment. The Congress has not reported any costs involved in its action in this matter which cannot be met from within its budget. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes- I have seen the article referred to in the question. 
Yes- the Australian Government was represented by a senior officer of the Attorney-General's Department at the meeting in March 1979- the only one held to date- of the Hague Conference on Private International Law- Special Commission on the problems of the removal of children from one country to another by one parent without the other's consent. 
3 ) and ( 4) See answer to question ( 2 ). 
Trade with the European Economic Community  (Question No. 3993) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes.I am informed that  Mr Thomas  Moore, a resident of Woorabinda died in a cell at Woorabinda on 18 May 1979 apparently by hanging. Reports indicate that there were no suspicious circumstances. 
The Government is aware of the problems of Aboriginal settlements managed by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement. 
Australia has ratified the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination which requires States parties to undertake measures that could be said to be designed to promote inter-cultural communication. 
Remedies are available under the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 to persons suffering from any acts of discriminationto which that Act applies. Provisions of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975 override Queensland legislation which is considered to discriminate against Aboriginals. 
Referrals from General Practitioners to Specialists (Question No. 4001) 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs provided $19,831 to WAIT-AID Ltd to conduct a course for Aboriginal alcohol counsellors in the first half of 1 978. Fourteen Aboriginals from centres throughout Western Australia graduated in July 1978. A further grant was provided to WAIT-AID in the 1978-79 financial year to undertake an evaluation of the course and the report of this evaluation is now being considered by the Western Australian Regional Office of my Department in consultation with WAIT-AID. 
Insufficient time has elapsed for any reasonable assessment to be made of the impact of the counsellors in their communities. However, there are some indications that the training of counsellors can make a positive contribution towards decreasing Aboriginal alcohol abuse. 
No. 
See(l)above. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
) I am advised that some of the people at Buddabuddoo have said that this has occurred. 
I am unable to provide information on negotiations between the North Queensland Land Council and Australia Catholic Relief. (5)I have no information regarding this. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
) The following grants were provided to the States for the years in question: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The National Employment Strategy for Aboriginals encompasses a number of programs aimed to increase employment and training opportunities for Aboriginals in both the public and private sectors. 
Yes. The Government has taken steps to ensure that Aboriginals have opportunities to gain employment in the Australian Public Service in accordance with the principle of open competition on merit and that opportunities are provided in the Public Service for Aboriginals to gain employment training under the NEAT scheme. 
The Equal Employment Opportunity Bureau in the Public Service Board has responsibility for the implementation of the Strategy in the Commonwealth Public Service. The Bureau has a staff of 10. Two Aboriginal officers, a Clerk Class 9 and a Clerk Class S, work full-time on matters concerning Aboriginal employment; they are directed in the Bureau by a Senior Adviser, Class 1 1 and an Assistant Commissioner. Other officers work for part of their time on aspects of the Strategy which fall within their responsibilities; in particular Special Placement Officers in the Board's Regional Offices assist with testing Aboriginal applicants and placing Aboriginals in employment and training positions in departments. 
The Board conducts a survey of Aboriginals employed in the Commonwealth Public Service at 1 October each year. The latest figures available are those obtained at 1 October 1978 which showed that 1,183 Aboriginals were employed under the Public Service Act. When allowance is made for the transfers during the year of staff associated with certain functions to the Northern Territory Public Service, there was a gain of some SO in the number of Aboriginals employed in the Commonwealth Public Service. By comparison, total employment in the Commonwealth Public Service during the same period declined by 2,6 1 3. 
At the end of April 1979, 64S Aboriginals had received, or were receiving, vocational training in the Commonwealth Public Service funded by the National Employment and Training System (NEAT). 466 Aboriginals were still receiving training at that time. 
(a) Overall figures are not available on the total number of Aboriginals placed in employment as a result of the Strategy. However, a campaign recently conducted in Dubbo, New South Wales, resulted in 59 Aboriginals being placed in employment in May 1979 which compares to 1 1 
Aboriginals placed in employment through the Commonwealth Employment Service in May 1978. 
When the Strategy was introduced in May 1977, 1,298 Aboriginal trainees were being assisted under the National Employment and Training System. At the end of April 1979 there were 2,837 Aboriginals being assisted under NEAT- an increase of 1,539 or 1 18.6 per cent. In addition, some 600 Aboriginals are participating in the Community Development Employment Projects. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The purpose of the  Aboriginal Newsletter  published by my Department is primarily to inform Aboriginal communities of matters likely to be of interest to them. It is distributed to other interested groups and organisations as well. 
No. 
1 have read the item referred to. 
and (5) Items in the Newsletter are necessarily short. Space did not allow for a more comprehensive report on the Land Rights and Mining Conference. 
Beef Exports to the United States  (Question No. 4256) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 3454  (Hansard,1  May 1979, page 1714). (2)(a) The names of the  Chairman  and members of AMSTAC are: 
Chairman: Professor A. J. Birch, Professor of Organic Chemistry, Research School of Chemistry, ANU and recently  Chairman  of the Independent Inquiry into the CSIRO. 
Members-  Dr L.  A Frakes, Reader, School of Earth Sciences, Monash University,  Mr A.  B. Hicks, Group Manager, Projects, Victorian Ministry of Housing,  Mr M.  J. K. Lodge. Engineering and Construction Manager for Woodside Petroleum Pty Ltd,  Mr J.  P. Lonergan, O.B.E., First Assistant Secretary Pobey Division, Department of Science and theEnvironment, DrK. Radway Allen, formerly Chief, CSIRO Division of Fisheries and Oceanography, Professor J S.Turner Professor of Geophysical Fluid Dynamics, Research School of Earth Sciences, ANU. 
b ) AMSTAC's terms of reference require it to investigate and report to the Minister on the co-ordination of R and D in the marine sciences and technologies, and the priorities for marine sciences and technologies R and D. having regard to scientific and technological requirements, national needs and the current economic circumstances. 
No date has been fixed for the Committee's report. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In 1974 the management of Lake Nash took certain action which could have resulted in the Aboriginals moving off the station but there was no definite statement by the management of any intention in this regard. In 1979 a similar situation arose but again no definite statement was made by the management. 
This matter has not been the subject of official discussion between the Australian and the United States Governments and it is unlikely to affect bilateral relations. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) The information requested is not available. Results of the 1 976 Census of Population and Housing include information about the incomes of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people at many communities which correspond to individual census collection districts or aggregates of collection districts. While some of these districts correspond more or less to reserved areas, it is not possible to use the census source to estimate the average income for the total reserve area in each State and Territory. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Not to my knowledge. The Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act establishing shires of Aurukun and Mornington was amended in December 1978 to provide for roads within the two shires to be deemed to be 'dedicated' (i.e. public) roads for the purpose of the State's Main Roads Act, the Traffic Act and any other relevant Act. This provision makes the roads eligible for roadworks funding by the State and application will be made by the State to the Commonwealth for the allocation of funds under State Grants (Roads) Act 1977 for road works in the two local authority areas. I would expect that maximum use would be made of the local workforce for any such undertakings. The amendment does not affect the Council 's control of access. 
I am not aware of any such statement by the Queensland Minister for Local Government. 
See(l)above. (4)I have been informed that at the May 1 979 meeting of the Aurukun Shire Council it was resolved not to seek upgrading of the road between Aurukun and Weipa and that this decision was conveyed to the Minister for Local Government. 
Aurukun being a local Government Shire, it is the Council of the Shire of Aurukun which takes decisions on all local government matters in the shire area, subject to the provisions of relevant State legislation. 
My representative on the Co-ordinating and Advisory Committee assisting the Shire Council keeps me informed regularly on the progress of Shire administration. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Australian Science and Technology Council Act 1978 I present the report of the Australian Science And Technology Council on Marine Sciences and Technologies in Australia: Immediate Issues. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill and those associated with it represent the last major step in the assumption of responsible self-government by the Northern Territory. Under the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Act 1978, the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory exercises legislative power in respect of the peace, order and good government of the Territory. Honourable members will know that the Northern Territory Government now also exercises executive authority, pursuant to the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Act 1978, in respect of almost all State-type functions. Accordingly, with the traditional view of the division of governmental powers into legislative, executive and judicial arms in mind, it only remains for the Northern Territory Government to assume responsibility for the judicial arm of government. 
Responsibility for the Territory's lower courts was transferred to the Northern Territory Government on 1 January 1978 with most of the Attorney-General's other State-type functions. But at that time it was felt inappropriate to transfer the Supreme Court- the highest judicial organ in the Territory courts structure. In view of the constitutional development of the Territory since then, including the creation of the Northern Territory Government as a separate legal entity from 1 July 1978, the Government has decided that the Supreme Court should be under local legislative and executive control. This decision, I should make it clear, followed representations from and discussions with the Northern Territory Government. 
The Northern Territory Supreme Court Act 1961 now provides for the establishment and constitution of the Court. This Bill will repeal that Act which will be replaced by Northern Territory legislation providing for the establishment and constitution of a new Territory Supreme Court. That Court will not be the subject of Commonwealth legislation, except in respect of the conferral of Commonwealth jurisdiction upon the Court and necessary transitional matters. 
Clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill are transitional provisions ensuring the continuation of proceedings pending before the High Court or the Federal Court of Australia arising from proceedings in the present Northern Territory Supreme Court, and of the appointments to the Federal Court of the present judges of the Supreme Court. Clause 7 will put beyond doubt that references in existing Commonwealth legislation to the Northern Territory Supreme Court are to be read as references to that Court to be established by the Northern Territory legislation, except where the context otherwise requires. 
Discussions between officers of the respective governments concerning the necessary administrative and financial arrangements and for the transfer of staff and property, are now being conducted. This Bill and the replacement Northern Territory legislation will then be proclaimed to come into operation on the same day. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Northern Territory Supreme Court (Repeal) Bill 1979 and will pick up the effect of certain provisions of the Northern Territory Supreme Court Act 1 96 1 that need to be continued. Its main purpose is to confer jurisdiction on the Northern Territory Supreme Court in respect of matters that may not be within the competence of Northern Territory legislation and are, in any event, more appropriately dealt with in Commonwealth legislation. 
The Bill will amend the Judiciary Act 1903- that is, the principal Act- by inserting a new Part IXA. That Part will confer jurisdiction on the Northern Territory Supreme Court in respect of suits between the Commonwealth and the Territory, certain prerogative writs and injunctions sought against Commonwealth and Territory officers and matters arising under Commonwealth legislation in respect of which the Territory Supreme Court has traditionally had jurisdiction. It also puts beyond doubt that provision can be made in Territory laws for the prosecution of indictable offences against Territory laws. 
New section 67E will extend to the property and moneys of the Territory the same protection from execution or attachment as applies to the 
Commonwealth and the States. Clauses 4, 5 and 6 of the Bill contain other necessary or desirable consequential amendments. 
Clause 4 will extend the provisions of section 71A of the principal Act, which concerns the prosecution by the Attorney-General of indictable offences against Commonwealth laws without preliminary examination, to all Territories. The need to extend those provisions to the Northern Territory arises from the repeal of the Northern Territory Supreme Court Act, section 51 of which provides similarly at present. The provision is to be extended to all Territories as it is not appropriate to extend it only to the Northern Territory. Clause 5 will cease to apply to section 55D of the principal Act, which makes provision regarding legal practice in the Territories, to the Northern Territory. Administration of the legal profession will be regulated solely by Northern Territory legislation. Clause 6 will extend the provisions of section 80A of the principal Act, which concerns the law that is to apply to Territory courts exercising jurisdiction in respect of claims against the Commonwealth and the like, to suits under the new Part IXA. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Northern Territory Supreme Court (Repeal) Bill 1979. The four resident judges of the Northern Territory Supreme Court now all hold appointments to the Federal Court of Australia. Also, a number of other Federal Court judges hold appointments as additional judges of the Northern Territory Supreme Court. The Government has decided that this situation should continue, particularly in view of the fact that appeals from the Northern Territory Supreme Court will continue to lie to the Federal Court for the time being. The Government also desires to be able to appoint to the Federal Court judges of the future Northern Territory Supreme Court. 
This Bill will amend the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976- to which I refer as the principal Act- to achieve those purposes. Clause 3 will amend section 6 of the principal Act so that the qualification for appointment as a Federal Court judge under sub-section (2) includes appointment to the Northern Territory Supreme Court, which will no longer be a court created by the Parliament within the meaning of the Act. Sub-section 6 (5) is to be similarly amended in relation to the holding of dual appointments by Federal Court judges. Clause 4 will amend section 15 of the principal Act to refer to a Chief Justice of the Territory Supreme Court in addition to Chief Judge as the proposed Northern Territory legislation will create the position of Chief Justice of the Territory. I commend the Bill to the House.  ( Quorum formed) 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Northern Territory Supreme Court (Repeal) Bill 1979. After transfer of the Northern Territory Supreme Court to local control, the Commonwealth should continue to be responsible for the pensions of Northern Territory Supreme Court judges only if they also hold appointments to the Federal Court of Australia. This Bill will amend the Judges' Pensions Act 1968 to achieve this. It will amend the definition of Judge in section 4 of that Act to substitute Australian Capital Territory for an internal Territory, thus excluding the Northern Territory. This means that the Act will not apply to Northern Territory Supreme Court judges as such. The Act will, of course, continue to apply to them if they hold Federal Court appointments. 
The definition of prior judicial service will also be amended so that service on the Northern Territory Supreme Court may be counted as prior judicial service under the Act. Clause 4 of the Bill will preserve benefits already payable under the Act in respect of previous service as a judge of the Northern Territory Supreme Court. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill complements the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979 and is consistent with the amendments moved by the Government to the Customs Bill 1979. It repeals and replaces the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act 1960 which deals only with interception of information passing over the telephone system. The Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security recommended that ASIO's powers of interception should be extended to interception of information passing over all telecommunications systems and this Bill so provides. 
Part II of the Bill makes unlawful, subject to limited exceptions, the interception of communications passing over a telecommunication system. It is also made unlawful for an officer of ASIO or Customs to have access to telegrams except as provided in the legislation. The circumstances in which information obtained by interception of a communication passing over a telecommunication system or by virtue of a warrant under the Bill may be divulged are carefully regulated in clause 7. Provision is then made in Part III for the issue of warrants by the AttorneyGeneral and, in emergency circumstances, by the Director-General, authorising ASIO to intercept communications passing to or from specified telecommunication services subject to safeguards similar to those provided in the present Act. Like provision is made in relation to telegrams. 
To meet the urgent national problem of narcotic offences, the Government has decided that the power of interception of all forms of telecommunications should be available to assist in the detection of Customs narcotic offences subject to the same safeguards as apply to interception by ASIO. Part IV of this Bill so provides. Recognising, however, that somewhat different considerations apply to interceptions for the purpose of inquiring into narcotic offences than apply in relation to security matters, the Bill provides for warrants to be issued by a judge of the Federal Court or a State or Territory supreme court authorising interceptions for these purposes. The Bill represents an essential complement to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill represents a further complementary measure to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979. Section 86 of the Telecommunications Act 1975 regulates the interception of information passing over a telecommunication system other than a telephone system. Because this matter will be dealt with henceforth in the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, it is necessary to amend the Telecommunications Act by repealing section 86. This Bill so provides. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill now before the House is to make amendments of a formal nature to the Customs Act 190 1, so as to alter references in that Act to the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act 1960 and the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act 1956. These Acts will be repealed and replaced by the Telecommunications (Interception) Act 1979 and the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act 1979 respectively. 
The amendments proposed by this Bill, which also amends paragraph 2 19g (2) (b) of the Customs Act 1901 to take into account the revised terminology incorporated in the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act 1979 in respect of activities prejudicial to security, will come into operation on the date of commencement of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act 1979. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's qustion is as follows: 
On 13 December 1978 1 announced that changes would be made in the administrative instructions for the Special Youth Employment Training Program to ensure that the Program was directed more effectively towards the target group. To ensure that only young unemployed people who are unable to compete on the open labour market are assisted, it was decided that training subsidy would not be provided to those employers who recruited young persons who would have qualified for employment without subsidy. 
It is not possible to state how much expenditure was being used by employers as a subsidy for labour that they would have normally employed at their own expense. However, the abuse was significant enough along with other considerations to warrant the changes in the guidelines. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
In my capacity as Minister representing the Attorney-General in this House I answer the question. As honourable members on the Opposition side would know, the Attorney-General, on behalf of the Commonwealth, has obtained an injunction against the so-called Croatian embassy, which was a matter referred to in the alleged conversation contained in the question. I am advised by the AttorneyGeneral that an appeal is to be lodged today against the injunction obtained by the Commonwealth and, therefore, the matter is before the courts. It is quite apparent, from the questions by the Leader of the Opposition and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, that they are quite prepared in this House to condemn people without trial. 
I am sure that members of the House, let alone the listeners to this debate, will be dismayed by the litany of abuse that they have heard from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He attempted to condemn the Government but as people come to read his speech they will see that not one proposal was put forward by him. Quite clearly, the Opposition is bereft of any policy in this area. 
Let me point out immediately some errors in the statements made by the honourable gentleman. From that alone, quite apart from anything else I might say, we will be able to judge the merit of his speech. The honourable member attacked us for allegedly attacking dole bludgers. I have never heard any member on this side of the House use the term 'dole bludger'. I hope and I am quite sure that no member on this side of the House would ever use that term. What I have said is that the taxpayers of this country expect this Government to accept the responsibility of seeing that their money is paid out to those who are genuinely unemployed but is not paid out to those who are not prepared to work. Perhaps I do not need any better authority for the correctness of that policy than  Mr Hawke  himself. A report in the Melbourne  Herald  of 1 5 February 1975 states: 
The ACTU  president, Mr Hawke,  said today social security payments needed to be more strictly policed. 
These benefits should not be squandered on people who are not prepared to work, '  Mr Hawke  said. 
In fact, the Minister for Labour and Immigration of the day, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  is quoted as saying that anyone refusing a reasonable offer of a job would be disqualified from receiving the unemployment benefit. I feel that that is really a bipartisan policy. The honourable member for Port Adelaide said that all manpower programs have been slashed. Let me correct him on this. The Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice FullTime Training program designed to assist apprentices and to support employers who are prepared to take on apprentices has been increased this financial year by $26m; it is now up to $54.3m. The number of apprentices who will be supported is up from 56,500 to 85,000. That is only one example of increases in our programs. 
The honourable member says that we have no job creation programs. That is quite correct because as a matter of economic philosophy and sensible budgeting we do not believe that job creation programs of the kind proposed by the Opposition and introduced by it when in government do anything to provide real jobs for people. It is through private enterprise that real job creation will occur. That is why the Government's economic policies are designed to see economic growth and, through economic growth, increased job opportunities. The honourable member said also that the Aboriginal people have no special programs within the Government's manpower and training programs. He sought to condemn me for the time when I was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I am quite prepared to stand on my record as Minister in that portfolio. In the National Employment and Training scheme, which is one of those schemes administered by my Department, of the $37.4m appropriated for NEAT- quite apart from what is provided under the Special Youth Employment Training Program- $ 17.5m will go to Aboriginal training. That is an increase of $3.6m. 
The honourable member seeks once more to attack the Government for deciding to acquire two Boeing 707 aircraft for overseas travel. I would have thought that the condolence motion which this House passed today regarding the death of the late Lord Louis Mountbatten at the hands of a terrorist assassin is proof enough of the need for this country to see that its Prime Minister, whether he is from the Labor, Liberal or any other political party, is provided with proper security. The best advice that was given to the Government was that aircraft of that kind ought to be obtained for the Prime Minister of this country. 
When the Opposition, three to four years after it ceased being in Government, now tries to preach to this parliament about unemployment, I think we ought to remind honourable members, as well as the people of Australia, that the fastest rate of increase in unemployment since the Second World War was brought about by the policies of the Australian Labor Party. It is really nothing short of humbug on the part of the honourable member for Port Adelaide to preach on the matter of unemployment. Undoubtedly Australia, like all countries within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, is facing a serious problem with regard to employment and unemployment. Australia is not alone in the western world. When the Labor Government came to office the number of unemployed was a mere 135,000. The number of unemployed among the young was only 80,000. In April 1974, unemployment represented 1.3 per cent of the work force or 76,865 persons. By January 1975, a mere eight months later, the Labor Government of the day had given this country an unemployment rate of 5.2 per cent or 311,596 unemployed; that is the source of our unemployment problem today. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I ask honourable members to refrain from interjecting, particularly the honourable member for La Trobe who is not occupying his proper place. The Minister has the right to address the House in silence. I ask that interjections cease. 
Those figures speak for themselves. That is the source of our unemployment problem today. It is the source of the hard core unemployment problem inherited by this Government - 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide also sought to paint a picture of something like 800,000 unemployed because he was speaking of hidden unemployment. Let me put the record straight by correcting the honourable gentleman and giving the facts to this House. The true picture is that given by the Australian Statistician's survey results measuring discouraged job seekers. That survey shows that there were 65,500 persons in May 1977 and 63,400 in March 1979. Moreover, only 32,200 of the 65,500 persons in May 1977 intended looking for work in the next 12 months. Others indicated that they may look or definitely would not be looking for work. They are the kinds of figures the honourable gentleman ought to be speaking about when he is speaking about the hidden unemployed or the discouraged job seekers. 
There has been a decline in the amount of funds provided in this Budget for the Special Youth Employment Training Program. Let me make a couple of things clear about that and give the reasons why there has been that decline. In the first place, it is the result of decisions made in the August 1978 Budget and a later decision by the Government in December 1 978. No decision was made in this Budget to cut the funds available for the SYETP or to deny to a young person who is eligible under the SYETP the opportunity to receive such training. The August 1978 Budget decisions were twofold. One decision reduced the rate of subsidy to employers and the other decision reduced the period of training from six months to 17 weeks. The December 1978 decisions restricted the range of persons who would be eligible for the training program. The Government did that for a number of very good reasons. The first principal reason was that it was found that many employers were using the SYETP program as a straight subsidy for wages they would have paid to employees whom they would have employed irrespective of that training program. In effect, employers were abusing the public funds made available by the Government. The second principal reason was that the Government believed it ought to identify as the target group for this program those young, disadvantaged, unemployed persons who, by reason of educational qualifications or personal background, found it impossible according to ordinary standards to enter the labour market. Through this program we were effectively using public funds to the best advantage, that is, for those who principally needed it. 
Overall, let me inform the House of the money which the Government has invested in young people since it came into office. Since 1976 funds available under the NEAT scheme have grown from $77m to $ 1 39m in 1 979-80. In all our manpower and training programs in the four years since 1975-76 we have spent $443m helping over 400 persons- predominantly young unemployed. I suggest to this House that that is a very solid investment by any standard by the Commonwealth Government in the youth of Australia. In 1975-76 some 33,000 people were helped through these programs. This year 36,000 people will be helped through NEAT; 49,000 through SYETP; 85,000 through CRAFT, and a further 40,000 will participate in Community Youth Support scheme projects. Overall this Government is providing funds which this financial year will help up to 210,000 people to improve their skills, get training and work experience, and maintain their work orientation. I do not believe that anyone can accuse this Government of showing a callous disinterest in the young people of this country. Rather, our programs have been carefully designed to ensure that those who do need help receive help, and we have been prepared to lay our money on the line. 
In this debate one ought also to acknowledge the actual achievements by this Government in both employment and unemployment. I refer particularly to what has happened over the last 12 months. As I said, our strategy is intended to benefit private enterprise so that it will have the incentive to invest in expanding industry, in seeing that the economy grows, and through that growth bring about employment growth. Over the last 12 months there has been a growth in employment of nearly 64,000 persons, and that has been substantially in the private sector. But most importantly the private sector has seen an increase in employment in the manufacturing industry of some 1 3,000 persons and that is the first time since 1973 that growth has occurred. In May 1979 total employment in Australia, seasonally adjusted, was 4,771,400, and that figure is the highest level since September 1974. It ought not to be forgotten that since January this year unemployment has fallen by 71,000 to the point where in both June and July of this year, on the Australian Statistician's figures, unemployment is at a lower level than for the same months last year. The same trend is appearing in the Commonwealth Employment Service figures. If that trend in the CES figures continues over the next several months we will see the same position achieved as is already appearing in the Australian Statistician's figures. 
Contrary to the litany of abuse from the honourable member for Port Adelaide, it can be readily said that this Government has acknowledged its commitment to the young people of Australia, and has met that commitment. Through the programs we presently have, and the work which is going on within the new Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, we will be building on a very solid foundation as the effects of this year's Budget show through into the economy and we see private enterprise grow even more than it has till now. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The Minister's time has expired. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Oversea Visits Committee has provided the information set out in the tables below. 
Under revised procedures operating from 1 January 1 978, annual quotas are assessed by the Committee at the beginning of each financial year and submitted to the Government for approval. Within the limits approved departments and authorities have responsibility for setting and managing their own priorities and approving individual visits. Provision also exists under the current procedures for supplementary bids to be made to the Committee during the course of the year. In the absence of exceptional circumstances arising, however, departments and authorities are expected to remain within initial quotas. 
-The honourable member for Tangney has quite properly picked up the point of the answer yesterday of my colleague, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, in pointing to the number of real jobs which will be created on a permanent basis by the aluminium smelters being established in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland. He is quite right in pointing out that it has become possible for those projects to be established because of the economic policies of this Government, designed as they are to open up employment growth through economic growth within private enterprise. 
The honourable member referred to a number of projects in Western Australia. An estimate has been made, no doubt on a conservative basis, that those projects will create something like 35,000 full time jobs. That is real job creation. I would add that this is without any cost to the taxpayer. It is quite the reverse of the proposals put forward by the Opposition, which would spend, on its estimate- I will have something to say about that later- something like $100m for 50,000 jobs. 
Let me give to the House some of the details of the employment opportunities that will be created by the projects mentioned by the honourable member. The massive North West Shelf project will produce massive work force numbers, with a peak construction force of 7,000 for the liquid natural gas on-shore and off-shore work, with an 800 permanent operational work force. Through the multiplier effect mentioned by the honourable member, there will be a spin-off work force of 1 1,000 to 12,000. The gas pipeline from Dampier to Penh will require a peak work force of 2,000 during the construction stage. The $ 1,000m Alwest project at Worsley near Collie will require a peak construction force of 2,400 and an operational force of 800. The 
Wagerup project, at this stage estimated to cost some $300m, will require a peak construction force of 1 ,100 and an operational force of 350. 
It is expected that the North West Shelf project will be given the go ahead by the end of the year. Together with Alwest, which will go ahead, and Wagerup, which has already commenced, it will create a massive demand for labour in Western Australia alone within a few yearssomething like 35,000 jobs, as I have mentioned. When that is compared with the present unemployment level in Western Australia I think we will get a complete reversal of the scene. In fact, there will be a massive demand for labour which is going to be very hard for Western Australia to find. 
-The honourable gentleman is spot on about what is being suffered in South Australia at the moment, and that is a crisis of confidence. Not only is investment fleeing from South Australia but also it will not return to South Australia until it has a government which produces policies which will attract investment to that State. If there is one thing that we have learned in Australia in the last three years it is that we need investment and development to produce economic growth and, through that, employment growth. 
Unfortunately, in South Australia the unemployment situation at the moment is disastrous. It is the worst in Australia at 40,400 persons or 8.2 per cent of the work force. Last month unemployment in South Australia rose by 5,100 when throughout the rest of Australia it decreased by 4,600. That increase is against the record throughout Australia since January this year, which is that unemployment has dropped by 76,200. 
The honourable gentleman asked what can be done about it. There is one very simple message to the people of South Australia. I give an example of how jobs can be created by investment. There are great copper, gold and uranium deposits at Roxby Downs in the electorate of Grey, an electorate held by a Labor member of parliament. I wonder what he thinks about them. What does the honourable member for Bonython say about those deposits? What does the honourable member for Port Adelaide say about them? If those deposits are developed they are capable of producing 55,000 jobs. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report on the current position in respect of each of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs Report on the Alcohol Problems of Aboriginals. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have written to  Mr Humphreys  in connection with the matters raised by him in Question No. 34 10. 
It is most intriguing that the Opposition should dare to introduce this motion on the eve of the South Australian State election. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who has just spoken, said that South Australia has been immunised by the Labor Government of that State from the impact of the economy and so on in Australia. I would rather say- and I am sure that the people of South Australia realise- that what has happened to them is that the South Australian economy has been anaesthetised. Although the economy is not dead it has been anaesthetised in such a way that the people of South Australia have a bleak future. They have a bleak future with regard to investment and development and, so far as my own portfolio is concerned, they have a bleak future for employment prospects. 
Let me put down immediately some facts on the investment situation in South Australia. In the Journal of Industry and Commerce, the table of major mining and manufacturing investment projects, committed and final feasibility stages, for April 1979, gives the following figures: New South Wales $ 1,866m; Victoria $ 1,750m; Queensland $2,438m; South Australia $255m; Western Australia $5,391m; Tasmania $129m; and the Northern Territory $6 16m. This makes a total of $ 12,444m. Where are the prospects for investment in South Australia? All honourable members know that only out of investment and development will come jobs. That is what is lacking in South Australia at the moment. 
The honourable gentleman spoke of the employment situation in manufacturing. Let me give him the facts. Employment in the manufacturing industry in South Australia has dropped by 1 7 per cent over the last five years. If that is compared with the other mainland States it shows that South Australia, in the manufacturing industry, has lost more jobs than any other State in Australia. Honourable members must bear in mind also that between May 1974 and May 1975, under the Whitlam Administration, 155,000 jobs in private employment were destroyed. That is on the record. So one can imagine the impact of that kind of destruction of jobs on a State like South Australia which is so dependent upon manufacturing. Look also at these facts. Since the last election in South Australia in 1977, the number employed in the private section, which is where real jobs are created- permanent, lasting, productive jobshas fallen by 5,800 people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Melbourne Ports will remain silent. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. A requisition has been lodged with the United States Government requesting that  Mr Azurin  be extradited to Australia for an offence of embezzlement. On 19 June 1979 a United States District Court Judge found that  Mr Azurin  was liable to be extradited to Australia pursuant to the Australia/United States Extradition Treaty.  His  removal from the United States has been deferred, however, pending the hearing of a petition he has filed for habeas corpus. 
The question of deportation is a matter for the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 1 am advised, however, that since extradition has not taken place, the question is hypothetical. The Minister could not at this time give an assurance that would commit him, or some future Minister, to a course of action based on a hypothetical situation. If  Mr Azurin  is returned to Australia, the question of his future stay or removal would have to be considered in the light of circumstances at the time and in accordance with the requirements of the law. 
-The question asked by the honourable member is most pertinent in the aftermath of the tumultuous events last week when, to quote the Leader of the Opposition, the Labor Party in South Australia received a clobbering on Saturday and Bob Hawke received a clobbering at the hands of the left wing at the ACTU Congress. Let me give the honourable gentleman some figures concerning the impact on jobs, actual and potential, if the ACTU ban on uranium mining were ever implemented. At Jabiru the present construction force is 600, a peak construction force will be 800 and the permanent operational force will be 500. Nabarlek at present has a construction force of 450, which is the peak force, and it will have a permanent operational work force of 100. Mary Kathleen in Queensland presently employs 470. At Yeelirrie in Western Australia the peak construction force when mining gets under way will be 1,000 and the operational force will be some 650 with about another 200 non-company employees. 
Those numbers are, of course, additional to the kind of jobs that will be created when Roxby Downs gets under way. There will be a construction force of 200,000 to 300,000 and a permanent operational work force of 5,000 and some 50,000 other jobs. It is quite apparent to the House, as it was to the people of South Australia, how damaging the ACTU ban on uranium mining would be to the creation of real jobs in Australia. 
The honourable gentleman asked me whether any officers of the ACTU were given information about the Government's plans for uranium mining. In the course of the Government's making its decisions in August 1977 and subsequently, my colleagues the Minister for Industrial Relations, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Health and the then Minister for the Environment and I held discussions with  Mr Hawke, Mr John  Ducker,  Mr Bill  Kelty and  Mr Peter  Cook. We laid our cards completely on the table. We made available to them all the information which the Government had which in our minds justified the approval of uranium mining in Australia. It is, therefore, pertinent to note that  Mr Hawke, Mr Ducker  and  Mr Kelty  all supported the mining of uranium in Australia. Quite clearly, they were satisfied, as the Government was satisfied, that it was completely safe to mine uranium in Australia. The one person who stood out of that group which was consulted by the Government was  Mr Peter  Cook. We know from  Mr Hawke  's own statements to the ACTU Congress that in private conversations  Mr Cook  said that he agreed that uranium mining should and would go ahead. However, what did he do? He ratted on his union mates in front of the ACTU Congress. He denounced the Government's decision. 
I heard what the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  said this evening during the adjournment debate, seeking to attack the Government for its record in supporting manpower and training programs. I did have the opportunity to hear what the honourable member for Macarthur (  Mr Baume)  said when pointing out that in the Warilla district, when comparing this year with last year, there has been a consistent fall in the level of unemployment. As I know, the honourable member for Macarthur is extremely vigilant to make sure that the statements by the honourable member for Cunningham are corrected. Let me put on record some of the things that have been achieved by this Government in the area of manpower and training program. In 1975-76, $40.2m was expended under the National Employment and Training scheme; in 1976-77 the amount was $3 1.6m; in 1977-78 it was $84.8m; and, in 1 978-79, it was $ 1 1 7.8m. That is a record that the former Labor Government could not emulate. We have invested in people whom we believe need training to obtain work experience and also to acquire a skill which is in short supply. This year, the appropriation for NEAT is $67.9m, including the Special Youth Employment Training Program. 
The figure is less because of two decisions that were made by the Government in 1978. There was no decision made in the 1 979 Budget which reduced the amount of money required to support the NEAT scheme and SYETP. Those two decisions were: Firstly, in the August 1978 Budget the period of training was reduced from six months to 17 weeks and the amount of rebate payable to employers was reduced from $64 a week to $45 a week. Obviously during 1978-79, with some trainees under the old rates of rebate and for a longer period of training, more money was required. Now that all trainees are on the current rates of training and rebate, less money is required. I would have thought that the honourable member for Cunningham would have appreciated that. Secondly, in December 1978 the Government decided to restrict the eligibility criteria to a special target group of disadvantaged young unemployed. This was done for two reasons. Firstly, it was known that many employers were using the rebate as a direct wate wage subsidy for persons whom they would have employed in any event. I noticed that in the recent Australian Council of Trade Unions congress this practice by employers was condemned. Let me point out to the honourable member that we were in advance of the congress in that regard because in December 1978 we effectively moved to cut out that kind of employer abuse. The other thing that the Government did in December 1978 was to ensure that this money would go to those young unemployed people in real need; in other words, those who would not normally meet the requirements of an employer and hence needed 17 weeks work experience so that they could then go out and compete effectively in the labour market. 
This financial year, it is anticipated that some 80,000 predominantly young Australians- but also some older Australians- will receive training under the NEAT and SYETP schemes; 31,000 are to be included under NEAT, itself, 49,000 under SYETP. It is a fact that this year we have increased our expenditure on the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme by $25.9m. That will increase from 56,500 to 85,000 the number who will be supported under CRAFT. 
House adjourned at  1 1  p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The records held by my Department are not in a form which would enable this information to be extracted without excessive use of resources. 
and (3) The numbers in training under the National Employment and Training System as at end April and end May 1979 classified as formal NEAT, normal on-the-job NEAT and SYETP were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 4299 provided by the Minister for Administrative Services(Hansard,11 September1979). 
Science and the Environment: Motor Vehicles  (Question No. 4301) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The most recent statistics of the number of Aboriginals registered as unemployed and awaiting placement at Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service throughout Australia are for 3rd August 1979. These statistics show the following distribution: 
It should be noted that the basis of the metropolitan/nonmetropolitan classification in Commonwealth Employment Service statistics is location of office at which the client is registered. All offices in the Northern Territory are classified as non-metropolitan. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question because it is important to show immediately that that Press report is false. There is no such confidential document within my Department. No such projection was made by my Department. I presume that the author of the article was referring to a labour force projection, which is not a confidential document. It is a technical working document produced within the Department and updated from time to time. In fact, I was not aware of its existence until I made some inquiries this morning in response to that article and saw the document. The document is entitled, 'Labour Force Projections 1978 to 2003'. The document uses population estimates drawn from the Australian Statistician's publication 'Projections of the Population of Australia 1978 to 2001' and labour force participation rates from the Australian Statistician's publication 'The Labour Force'. From these figures tables are produced which project the labour force under various assumptions, including constant participation rates as of August 1978 and projected participation rates from long term trends and immigration assumptions. That is the nature of the document. Nowhere does it mention unemployment. 
I think it is rather offensive to any Minister and to any member of the House to be accused, as this Press report does, of suppressing a confidential report. I think the House will be aware that the Press report is totally false. The author has deduced some figures from his own arithmetic. One of the figures that he referred to is an annual labour force growth of a round 1 10,000. If anybody cares to look at the statistics he will see that there is no such round figure. In fact, up to 1983 all the figures are below 100,000. Therefore it is quite apparent- the honourable gentleman who asked the question will, I think, appreciate this point- that the author has used the figure of 1 10,000 as a figure of convenience in order to produce a particular and desired result. 
The statement by my colleague the former Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations was a most informative and important statement. He has been much maligned for making it. It was made as the result of a decision by the Government. At the time the Government thought that the Australian people should be informed of the situation concerning employment and unemployment. I take nothing away from the statement made by him. 
He has been maligned by members of the Opposition and they know it. Nothing can take away from the statistical fact that since the peak unemployment figure was given by the Australian Statistician in January, unemployment has fallen by some 76,000 people. Nothing can take away from the fact that each of the monthly unemployment figures for the last three months has been less than each of the unemployment figures for the same months last year. That shows not only that we have halted the continually worsening trend in unemployment but also that we have begun to reverse it. That is also borne out by the employment growth over the last 12 months. Over 60,000 new jobs have been created in civilian employment, particularly in the private sector. We know, as the Opposition refuses to recognise, that only through policies of investment and development within the private sector will we get economic growth and, through economic growth, employment growth. 
As the honourable gentleman knows, the funding in this year's Budget for the Special Youth Employment Training Program flows from two decisions made last year. The first decision was made in the Budget of 1978 when the period of training was reduced from six months to 17 weeks and the amount of rebate, that is, subsidies to employers, was reduced from $64 to $45 per week. In December 1978 the Government decided that in order to cut out employer abuse of the Special Youth Employment Training Program it would review the eligibility criteria so that the young unemployed people who would benefit from the program would be those who would not meet the normal employment requirements of an employer. These people might be termed the hard core unemployed, that is, those young people who, because of a lack of educational competence or some other attributes, find it very difficult in a tight labour market to obtain employment. We thought- I think quite properly- that the public money which we were putting into this program should be put to the most effective use possible. We do not believe, as the Australian Council of Trade Unions does not believe, that the Government should be providing a direct wage subsidy to employers in those circumstances. Therefore we limited the target group of young people to the specially disadvantaged in the current labour market. 
From those two decisions in August 1978 and December 1978 flowed inevitable funding consequences which appear in this year's Budget in which we have provided enough funds for the anticipated demand by employers and the needs of this particular young unemployed group. Of course the other side of our funding, which the Opposition is not prepared to acknowledge, is the massive increase in the funds that we are making available to assist apprentices through our Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training Scheme. We have almost doubled to $55m the amount of money that we are providing to employers to engage more apprentices. When we are in a time of economic recovery and when there is increasing demand by industry for skilled workers and a demand by young people to obtain a skill, I think one can see the purpose behind the priority of the Government in putting $55m towards apprenticeship support. 
The basic reason that we have the present unemployment problem is because of the economic policies pursued by the Whitlam Administration in the years 1974 to 1975. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

If the honourable gentleman gives me more particulars of the statistics that he produces from other countries, I will take his question on notice and give him a detailed answer. 
The answer is no. Many, if not all, of the unskilled migrants who are coming to Australia are very hard working migrants and make a great contribution to Australia both socially and economically. I know that my colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, in the administration of the numerical multifactor assessment system of determining eligibility for permanent entry into Australia, takes fully into account the occupational needs of industry in Australia as one of the basic factors of the NUMAS scheme. I do not think there is anybody on this side of the House who would decry the value of migrants to Australia historically and the value of those who are seeking to come here now. We know migrants have made a great contribution to Australia. Even though we have high levels of unemployment in Australia, migrants are welcome to this country. We do not believe that we should restrict unduly the migrant intake simply because we have high unemployment levels. Quite properly, we must take into account the position in the areas in which there are shortages of skills and shortages of available people with special characteristics and attributes. But overall, as a government, we believe that there is plenty of room in Australia for the migrant intake level which we have established for this year. 
-We know that the investment policies of this Government have been a very important factor in increasing the competitiveness of Australian industry through greater efficiency because of modernisation of plant and equipment. We know that the investment allowance and other special tax incentives that this Government has offered will for example, enable the great North West Shelf development to go ahead on a firm economic basis. We also know that the bulk of those 155,000 jobs that were destroyed between May 1974 and May 1975 by the Whitlam Administration were in the manufacturing sector of Australian industry. That occurred for a number of reasons and I will mention two. One was the tariff policies of the Whitlam Administration with a 25 per cent across the board tariff cut. 
The second reason why those jobs were so- 
-This debate today in the Committee of the Whole House completely justifies the decision of the Government that this forum-the Committee of the 
Whole House- is the appropriate and best forum in which to debate this legislation. The other interesting aspect of this debate- I think it will be obvious as the debate unfolds- is that we will be able to discern those who do not wish to have a security organisation in Australia at all and those who simply desire to improve the structure and substance of the legislation. 
I thank the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  for their contributions because they have demonstrated the reason for the prescence of this word 'ultimately' in the definition of subversion. Of course it must be a matter of judgment. From the very nature of the subversive acts intended to be kept under surveillance it must be a matter of judgment, both by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation as well as by society, because a mixture of social, political and constitutional elements of the framework of Australian democracy are involved. I think this is an important matter to appreciate when we are talking about ASIO. 
One honourable member referred to the Organisation as 'this beast'. I simply say to the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  that ASIO is not a foreign beast like the KGB or even the Central Intelligence Agency. It is a creature of the Australian democratic body politik. It was established by a parliament of this country. Let me also remind him that ASIO began under the charter of Prime Minister Chifley in 1949. It was put into legislative form and given the authority of legislation by the Menzies Government in 1956. In 1974 the Whitlam Government established the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Hope. This legislation is the product of that Royal Commission. All along the way the Parliament of this country has been improving, strengthening and tightening the framework of ASIO. 
Subversion necessarily being a matter of judgment, as the honourable member for Lilley has pointed out, one cannot limit the judgment of ASIO to conduct presently being committed. One must be prepared to look at what is beyond that conduct, the end intention of that conduct, the belief which underlies the conduct, so that it can be said that whatever is happening, whatever is being done, has, or is likely to have, as the end result the overthrow of the constitutional government of the country or the destruction of the constitutional government of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory. I think the example cited by the honourable member for Lilley is apposite to the matter that we are debating. As he illustrated, a strike of one kind may have no subversive element in it at all but a strike of another kind, such as the great coal strikes of the late 1940s led and underwritten by communist elements in this country, had, one could say, as their ultimate intention the overthrow or destruction of the constitutional government of this country. 
The inclusion of this word 'ultimately' in the definition is not merely something that was in the mind of the Government; in fact, it picks up the recommendation of the Hope Royal Commission. Let me, in summary, again point to the basic reasons we believe the definition should remain as it is written in the Bill. We believe, as the Hope Commission did, that any body or any organisation which believes in or has a commitment to the use of force or violence at some future stage, even though it may not be engaged in such activities at the moment or may not intend to engage in them in the near future, for the purpose of overthrowing the constitutional government of the country, should be regarded as subversive and therefore should be capable of being kept under surveillance by the ASIO. Therefore, the Government cannot accept the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. 
This debate has gone on for quite some time and has been a matter of great interest; but that is not unexpected as this is the very first amendment to be debated. There has swirled around this one word argument against the very substance of the legislation and the very existence of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. As time goes on in this debate it will be most revealing to see where those speakers who spoke against the inclusion of the word 'ultimately' ultimately stand with respect to the very existence of ASIO. Therefore, let me take a moment to refer to some of the things said by  Mr Justice  Hope in his report. I do so because people listening to this debate might think that neither this Government,  Mr Justice  Hope, nor ASIO itself, has any regard for the individual rights and freedoms of Australian citizens. This Government knows, as did  Mr Chifley  and the Menzies Government before us, that in this area there is a delicate balance between those individual rights and freedoms and the security of our nation. We know also that at times it presents dilemmas to us - 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman. Mr Justice  Hope said: 
I have started by considering whether Australia needs a security service such as ASIO was created to provide. That leads to a consideration of what is, or should be, the proper place of a domestic security service in a liberal democracy like Australia. 
I have had in mind throughout my inquiries that a balance between the rights of individual persons and the preservation of the security of Australia as a nation is no simple or easy thing to achieve. But, 'in the final analysis, public safety and individual liberty sustain each other'. 
I refer to another statement of  Mr Justice  Hope, particularly to answer a statement made by the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron) Mr Justice  Hope said: 
ASIO is an organ of the executive government of the Commonwealth. Although many of its operations must be secret, it is nevertheless answerable to Ministers, and through them to the Parliament and the people. 
I quote that because the honourable gentleman quite fallaciously said that ASIO is not answerable to the Government or the people. This legislation shows how ASIO is answerable to the 
Attorney-General and, through the AttorneyGeneral, of course, to the Parliament and the people. Furthermore, as ASIO is an organ of the executive government of the Commonwealth, this Government must be answerable for the activities of ASIO to this Parliament and to the people. Much of the criticism of the use of the word 'ultimately ' turned on the fact that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation might mismanage or misuse the authority that is given to it. We know that no man or woman in this world is perfect and therefore it is understandable that  Mr Justice  Hope said that: 
As an organisation ASIO needs management. Over a number of years ASIO's management was not as good as it should have been. If Australia needs a security service- and I shall show that it does- it must be well run. Those working in it must have high personal qualities. 
When speaking of the fact that he found some disorder in ASIO's files he said this: 
I have taken the view . . . that my task is to make recommendations for the future rather than to seek to track down the truth or otherwise of past errors or alleged past errors. 
I think those words might well be quoted to some of the honourable members who have spoken in this debate. Nor is it an answer to the use of the word 'ultimately' in this definition to refer to the White report upon the activities of the Special Branch of the South Australian State police. We are not debating the State Special Branch of South Australia; we are debating a Bill to give special authority to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I make it quite clear that the State Special Branch is not ASIO. So let us debate upon the basis of the Hope report and not of the White report. The Government has not simply plucked this word 'ultimately' out of the air. As I said earlier, it was, in fact, a recommendation of  Mr Justice  Hope that the word be used in the juxtaposition of the three fundamental elements of the meaning of subversion as provided for in clause 5 ( 1 ) (a). It refers to: activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to, 
That is one element. The second element is: the use of force or violence or other unlawful acts - 
The third element- of course, this is a fundamental and vital element- in the clause is: for the purpose of overthrowing or destroying the constitutional government of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory; 
I think that when one understands those three fundamental elements one can quickly draw the conclusion that the kind of example that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  was referring to would not come within the meaning of 'subversion'. He used the example of street marches in Queensland. Of course, what is lacking from his example is the third element. There is a clear distinction between activity intended to or likely to change the law or change a government at the ballot box on the one hand and activity which has as its purpose the overthrow or destruction of a constitutional government as we know it in Australia. I think that distinction must be very clearly borne in mind. It will be borne in mind if one appreciates the three fundamental elements in the meaning of 'subversion', and that is why the word 'ultimately' is critical to the authority of ASIO to act in the interests of national security. Having said that and having listened to all the contributions in this debate from both sides of the House for which I thank honourable members, I think that the House will see why the Government cannot accept the amendment proposed to remove that word 'ultimately' from the clause. 
Question put: 
That the word proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
The Committee divided: (The Chairman-Mr P. C. Millar) 
Ayes.......... 69 
Noes.......... 30 
Majority....... 39 

<graphic href="115131197909206_52_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909206_53_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909206_53_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
The Government cannot accept this amendment by the Opposition. I will make a number of short points against what has been said. The first is that all their Opposition members in all their arguments, which have been epitomised by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  have omitted one word when they discussed this sub-clause. That word controls the whole of the clause itself. It is the word 'directed'. In relation to the meaning ofsubversion, clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) states:  activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions or the carrying out of other activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth; 
Therefore, the act which is kept under surveillance must be an act which is judged to be directed to this purpose- to obstruct, hinder or interfere with the performance of the Defence Force. It is an old debating technique, well recognised by anybody who has been involved in debating in the past, that in order to condemn something a person always uses an innocent example. He says: 'There is an innocent activity. Why should that activity be rendered unlawful or kept under surveillance by the security organisation? When an innocent activity is kept under surveillance that is an infringement of civil liberties. ' It is not the innocent activity to which this clause is directed but to some other kind of activity. This point illustrates the fallacy of the arguments of the Opposition. For example, it says that a march or demonstration in the street to protest against a law or executive act of government could be the subject of surveillance under clause 5 (1) (b). Another example given was a speech by  Senator Hamer,  not in the House but outside it, when he criticised the administrative competence of the Department of Defence. Of course, those activities are not caught by this clause, nor are they intended to be. They are innocent activities, known to everyone, which are not directed to obstructing, hindering, or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions. We need to recognise this debating technique. I am sure that as it has come out in the debate on this amendment so we will find the same technique used throughout the debate on the amendments proposed by the Opposition. 
It has been said that the only activities which ought to be capable of surveillance under the authority of this legislation are unlawful activities. I will give an example which I think will be understood by everyone. One of the most recent notorious acts of terrorism was the bombing of Lord Mountbatten 's boat. The bomb was set off by remote control. It killed Lord Mountbatten and other people. That was an unlawful action, it was murder. Let us transpose that action to a situation in Australia. I was in the executive building of the Government of New South Wales in Sydney last Friday at a conference of State and Commonwealth Labour Ministers. The room overlooked Garden Island Dockyard where HMAS  Melbourne  was moored. If someone who wished to obstruct the performance by the Defence Force of its functions put a bomb against the hull of HMAS  Melbourne  and by remote control triggered that bomb and blew it up, the act of blowing it up would be unlawful. The Opposition is suggesting that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation could not keep that person under surveillance prior to his placing the bomb and triggering it off with the purpose of obstructing the performance by the Defence Force of its functions. 
I think that shows the absurdity of the proposition of the Opposition. ASIO would need to know that an unlawful act was being committed before it could even keep the activity of that group of people under surveillance. Quite obviously ASIO has to have the authority to keep under surveillance activities, lawful or unlawful, which are directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions. Let us not detract from the application of common sense in this situation. The intelligence authorities must be able to make a judgment of the character and nature of the activities of people. I think it is quite clear then that if one limits ASIO's surveillance capacity to activities which are unlawful in themselves, then one seriously circumscribes, inhibits and limits its capacity to act in the interests of the nation. 
It is quite clear then that the security authorities must have the capacity to keep under surveillance activities, either lawful or unlawful, directed to the matters stated in the clause. I repeat those again. They are activities 'directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions or the carrying out of other activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth. 
I shall deal very briefly with the argument that has been put forward. I think that the argument put by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  in answer to the example I gave really proves the point. The proposition put forward by the Opposition was that it would allow to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation only the authority to keep under surveillance anybody who had in mind an activity, such as bombing HMAS  Melbourne  which obstructed, hindered or interfered with the Defence Force when an illegal act had been committed. An illegal act can be committed earlier than the pressing of a button by remote control to ignite a bomb. The point is that the Opposition would deny to ASIO the opportunity to keep under surveillance a person committing an act which does not constitute an illegal act. I think that in the exercise of common sense one would say that ASIO ought to have the authority to keep under surveillance a person who is engaging in an activity which falls short of an unlawful act but which is directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the functions of the Defence Force. So my example served the purpose of drawing out the Opposition and showing the fallacy of its proposition. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports also said that this clause deals with the crime of subversion. It does not. It does not create an offence; it does not make a person guilty of an offence when he engages in an activity which is directed towards the end result. The clause gives authority to ASIO to keep under surveillance people who are engaging in this kind of activity. 
It is always a salutary exercise to invite members of the Opposition to consider themselves sitting on the Government side of the House. What would they say if they directed the Defence Force to carry out a certain task in the defence interests or security interests of the country? Would not the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  or any member of this House expect a Labor government to tell its security organisation to inform it about any persons activities, either lawful or unlawful, which are directed towards obstructing the very function which it had commanded the Defence Force of this country to carry out in the interests of the defence of this country? Would a Labor government say to its security organisation that it is not interested in getting advice on any activity which is directed towards obstructing the very purpose for which the Government had sent the Defence Force on its way? Of course not. That points out the fallacy of the Opposition's proposition. 
As this debate has unfolded and as we have dealt with clause after clause, I have been driven inevitably to the conclusion that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  does not believe that an intelligence organisation should exist in Australia. 
I did not say that the honourable member was misleading the Committee. 


 - Mr Chairman, if you think that what I said requires withdrawing I will certainly withdraw it. I said: 'As I listen to the honourable member I am driven to the conclusion that he does not believe that there should be a security organisation in Australia '. 

 -Mr Chairman, if the honourable gentleman wishes me to withdraw, I will withdraw. 

Yes,  Mr Chairman. 

 Mr SCHOLES (Corio  )-Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation about a matter on which I have been misrepresented. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Lionel  Bowen's) be agreed to. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
The information sought by the honourable member appears in the Schedule which is set out below. In that Schedule: 
The individual, or group of individuals as the case may be, to whom financial assistance was authorised have been listed chronologically (from1 to 36) according to the time when financial assistance was authorised. 
When, in respect of a particular proceeding or group of proceedings, there were a number of applicants or respondents to whom financial assistance was authorised rather than a single applicant or respondent, then all those persons have been listed (Nos 1, 12, 16, 18, 21, 27 and 30). In those instances the ' amount paid ' represents the total amount paid to the solicitors acting on behalf of the applicants or respondents in respect of the relevant proceeding or group of proceedings. 
In Nos 23 and 29 no amount has been specified as financial assistance has not, as yet, been assessed and paid. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Administrative Services, House of Representatives  Hansard,  1 1 September 1 979, page 972. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (I), (2) and (3) I have had talks with the Queensland  Deputy  Premier,  Dr Edwards,  and the Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Affairs,  Mr Porter,  about the request of the Yarrabah Council for self-management and land tenure. A joint meeting was arranged with the Council at Yarrabah for 25 June but the Queensland Government decided that its Ministers should not attend. I did meet with the Council at Yarrabah on that date. It is intended to arrange further talks between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments before decisions are made on a response to the Yarrabah Council's request. I shall continue to keep the Council informed about progress of talks. 
I am not aware of any such request from the Aurukun or Mornington Shires. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 have seen the book  A Black Reality: Aboriginal Camps and Housing in Remote Australia  edited by  Dr M.  Heppell and recently published by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. The Government did not dismiss  Dr Heppell  from the Aboriginal Housing Panel. 
I note that  Dr H.  C. Coombs in a Foreword to the book comments on the disappointing results of Government housing policies for Aboriginals over the years and, acknowledging that he is 'one who must bear some responsibility for this failure' refers to 'our haste (and our arrogance)' in relation to the housing of Aboriginals. I have not found any reference to the Prime Minister, or to 'increased bureaucratisation' by  Dr Heppell  nor does he indicate that the Department of Housing and Construction has been made 'responsible for all remote Aboriginal housing problems'. He does indicate at page 42 that the Government requires 'the Department of Construction to act, wherever practicable, as consultant to Aboriginal Housing Associations'. 
1 have found no statement that 'increased drunkenness and violence has resulted from the construction of $40,000 houses in remote Arnhem Land ', in either of the two papers in the book which deal with communities in Arnhem Land. In a paper on housing at Mitchell River and Edward River in North Queensland,  Dr Taylor  sets out the evidence for his view that 'the thatched houses and shanties of the earlier days' were closer to being entities 'firmly linked to peoples' needs, abilities, ambitions and expressive drives' than 'the present day prefabricated housing'. 
and (5) Expenditure to date on Aboriginal housing by Governments throughout Australia has been inadequate to meet the needs and both Commonwealth and State Governments have recognised this. The greatly increased provision for Aboriginal housing in the 1979-80 Commonwealth Budget should enable a substantial reduction to be made in the housing shortage. 
The papers in this book provide a useful reminder of the complexity of the problems Aboriginal communities and governments face in improving housing conditions in the remote areas where tradition-oriented Aboriginals live and they deserve serious study by all concerned. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) My Department has been advised by the Foundation that  Mr Gale's  resignation was accepted with effect from 9 December 1977. I do not know what stage of the criminal proceedings against  Mr Gale  had then been reached. 
The Government has granted the Foundation the sum of $5,500.00 in each ofthe financial years 1975-76, 1976-77, 1 977-78 and 1 978-79. The amount of the grant proposed for 1979-80 is $2,000.00. 
Aboriginal Self -management  (Question No.  4483) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yarrabah Council requested to be declared under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1978 and residents of both the Mossman Gorge and Kowanyama communities submitted petitions last year. A request has not been received from the Weipa community. 
and (3) Discussions have been initiated with the Queensland Government on the issues of self-management and secure land tenure for reserve communities in Queensland. (See my reply to Question No. 4347.) 
Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs: Reports on Alcoholism and Health  (Question No.  4486) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
See the statement made to the House of 1 1 September 1979 by the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for details of action taken on the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs on Alcohol Problems of Aboriginals. 
The recommendations in the Committee's Report on Aboriginal Health are being discussed in detail with State health authorities and the Aboriginal Medical Services, and with the Department of Health and other Commonwealth Departments. A statement on implementation of the report will be presented to Parliament as soon as is practicable. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Welfare relief is not the responsibility of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and no provision is made for it in my Department's budget. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) The Government has considered the report and recommendations of the interdepartmental committee. Media reports had suggested that hundreds of children may have been removed from Australia by one parent without the consent of the other. The committee's report indicates that approximately 10 such cases come to the Government's notice each year. While the number of child removal cases appears not to be as high as media reports had suggested, the Government is concerned to make its legislation and administrative procedures as effective as possible to minimise the problem. 
Prevention of child removal is a complex matter involving questions of jurisdiction, dual nationality, citizenship, freedom of travel and rights of the child. 
The committee indicated that there is no panacea for the problem. However, the Government is hopeful that the following legislative and administrative actions which are being or will be taken, which arise out of the committee's recommendations and which have been approved by the Government will both reduce the occurrence of the problem, and assist in the recovery of children that have been successfully removed from Australia: 
Revision of sections 62 and 63 of the Migration Act 1958, which provide for offences in respect of the removal and carriage from Australia of children in respect of whom custody or access orders have been made or are being sought, to give them broader application, and relocation of the provisions to the Family Law Act 1975 where their existence should become more generally known; 
Improving procedures for the entry of details of some children on warning lists; 
Officers of theDepartment of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and Business and Consumer Affairs stepping up at departure points identification checks of children who are accompanied by only one parent; 
Tightening parental consent requirements for the issue of passports to children leaving Australia; 
Providing courts and legal practitioners with detailed information on available preventive measures and proposals for new measures in a form which could be distributed to the public; 
Approaches to courts to achieve better communication of orders for delivery up of passports by applicants to police and foreign embassies and consulates in Australia; 
Requesting foreign diplomatic missions in Australia to decline passport facilities in respect of children who they are informed or who they have reasonable cause to believe are the subject of Australian court orders for delivery up of passports; 
Additional and further approaches to other countries, especially New Zealand, to secure arrangements for the reciprocal enforcement of custody orders between Australia and those countries; 
Continued participation by Australia in discussions in the Hague Conference on Private International Law on a proposed international convention on the specific problem of child removal; 
Authorisation of the Attorney-General to grant financial assistance in deserving cases to assist parents to institute legal proceedings overseas for recovery of their children removed from Australia by the other parent; 
Inclusion of the problem on the agenda in future discussions between Australia and New Zealand on travel arrangements between the two countries. 
Littoral Search in Western Australia (Question No. 4250) 
For the information of honourable members I present a review by the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth and the Attorney-General for Western Australia on laws in relation to public assemblies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1978-79, 66,331 young persons were approved for assistance under the Special Youth Employment Training Program. The cost of the Program in 1 978-79 was $82.6m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Task Group is an inter-departmental co-ordinating committee set up to assist co-ordination of policies and programs which bear significantly on Government services to youth. The Task Group comprises representatives from the Departments of Employment and Youth Affairs, Education, Finance, Health, Industry and Commerce, Prime Minister and Cabinet and Social Security (Social Welfare Policy Secretariat). It receives advice from all other Departments and meets in committee every two months. The Task Group provides advice to me and to the Government when appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to calculate the additional costs that may be involved in revised administrative arrangements for the application of the new work test guidelines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Statistics on employment in the electronics manufacturing industry are available from Census and Manufacturing Establishments publications of the Australian Bureau of Statistics (Catalogue No. 8203.0) and the Population Censuses. Statistics of persons employed in establishments mainly engaged in the sales and servicing of electronic equipment are not readily available as they are included with persons employed on the sales and servicing of nonelectronic equipment. 
There is no information available at present on the number of additional persons who have been employed in the production of electronic equipment in Australia since 1 July 1978. The latest available data are from the 1976-77 Census of Manufacturing Establishments. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. He was present throughout the conference and saw the positive contribution which was made by the conference to the primary objectives for which it was called. They were: Firstly, to present a national forum for the youth of Australia; secondly, to give youth representatives an opportunity to express their views; and thirdly, to see that the channels of communication between youth and government were opened. Having observed that the honourable member was present at the conference, I noticed the absence of the honourable member for Port Adelaide. The public presentation of the conference was that there was a lot of noise, some agitation, and attempts to disrupt the conference. I can confidently tell this House that the majority of those attending the conference were there to make a positive contribution in their own interests. In fact, out of the 130 or 140 persons who were present, seven chose not to have lunch with us at the National Press Club. At the end of the conference I gave a clear commitment that the Government would take seriously the matters discussed and the resolutions passed and that they would be quickly processed by all departments having an interest in them. I told the conference that I would be notifying all Ministers of the resolutions and would be asking Ministers to give me a response. I gave an undertaking that I would meet with 12 delegates from the conference, chosen by the conference at random, together with the 12 members of the National Youth Advisory Group, to consider the outcome of the conference. 
I think that one aspect of the conference that the House would be very interested in and gratified to hear about is the role played by the under 20s and the role played by those 40 delegates who were chosen from the phone-in. They were concerned at one stage of the conference that the more articulate, older members present- those who had experience through their activities within various youth groups- were really out-talking the younger people who lacked experience in this kind of forum. The younger people got together on the Thursday night and, as a result, the following day they published their own statement of matters that were of interest to them. I think those of us who attended the conference could see the increasing confidence that these younger delegates showed and the increasing contribution that they made. For my part, I thought that was the most heartening aspect of it because, if those under 20-year-old participants are any reflection of the attitudes of the young people of Australia, I think we can have great confidence in their participation in the overall future of Australia. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question because there has been some misapprehension on the part of the Opposition, amongst others, as to the actual position concerning funding of Community Youth Support Scheme projects in this financial year. I think the confusion has arisen because the appropriation in last year's Budget was $9m and then, in December of last year, the Government approved the expenditure of an additional $3. 26m, that being the amount anticipated to be required to meet commitments for the balance of the last financial year. In fact, only $ 1.7m of the $3.26m was spent, so that the actual expenditure last financial year was $ 10.7m. This year, the Government has made provision for an expenditure of $ 10m, that being the anticipated funding requirements for on-going projects and new projects. 
I should explain to the honourable member that in each State there is a State CYSS committee and it is that committee which receives applications for the continuation of projects or for new projects. Those State committees also make recommendations as to the level of funds for continuing projects or new projects. It was on the basis of information that the Government had as to the requirements of those State committees that the appropriation of $ 10m was made. The Government also thought that because of the rapid growth in CYSS projects over the last two years, from nil to something like 330 projects, it should use this year as one of consolidation. I think honourable members from both sides of the House can be both praiseworthy and critical of CYSS projects within their electorates. I know that I can speak for the Opposition in this respect because a number of Opposition members have spoken to me about it. I would think that all honourable members would be satisfied with the overall objective of using this year as one of consolidation in order that the good projects may be maintained and those that are not working so well can be either disbanded or brought down to an appropriate level, so that by the end of the year we can say that public funds are being effectively used. The other aspect worth mentioning is the experience of the honourable member for Henty - 
If any honourable member were to read the text of the speech that I made, he would see that I did not say what has been reported in the media or what has been rather hysterically condemned by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Port Adelaide. In order to put the record straight,  Mr Speaker,  might I seek leave to table the full text of a speech from which my address to the conference was taken? 
-Pursuant to section 46 of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 I present the report of the Commissioner for Community Relations 1979. 
Pursuant to section 97 of the Legal Aid Ordinance 1977 of the Australian Capital Territory I present the annual report of the Legal Aid Commission (ACT) 1979. 
The Government has no hesitation in rejecting this motion because it can stand on its record since it came into government at a time when it had to overcome the shambles in the economy, the high levels of inflation and the high levels of unemployment which were brought about with the economic policies during the years 1972 to 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is follows: 
1 ) When tabling the report of the Review of Post- Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants on 30 May 1978 (Hansard, page 2730), the Prime Minister said that the Government'. . . will assist in the redeployment of staff and the placement of volunteers . . . '.To this end a Working Party which included a representative of the Good Neighbour Councils was established on 19 June 1978. 
) The Public Service Board wrote to the  Chairman  of the Working Party on 8 January 1979 advising that Board officers would continue to be available to provide assistance and advice to Council staff interested in exploring employment prospects in the Australian Public Service but that all applicants for positions in the Australian Public Service must compete on merit for vacancies open to persons inside and outside the Public Service. 
Letters to the Prime Minister about Good Neighbour Council staff have been brought to the Board's attention. This was the case when in March 1979 a copy of the Prime Minister's reply to a letter from the  President,  Good Neighbour Council of South Australia, was referred to the Board. 
Government Schemes for the Unemployed (Question No. 4060) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information is not available on a calendar year basis. The following table presents relevant figures for the number of persons approved for assistance under the Government's manpower programs for the financial years 1976-77 to 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information is not available on a calendar year basis. The following table presents relevant details for the financial years 1975-76 to 1978-79. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the 1978-79 financial year $16 1,000 were allocated and expended by five national secretariats of Youth Organisations from grants under the Program of Assistance for Youth Organisations, administered by the Office of Youth Affairs. 
The 1979-80 Budget allocates $300,000 under this program as reported in the Budget and in my media statement of 26 August 1979. 
The IS National Youth Organisations to receive grants this year are listed below. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Office of Youth Affairs concerns itself with all issues relevant to youth and it continuously researches, advises, consults and monitors developments in these areas. During 1 979-80 it will continue to carry out its consultative, co-ordinating role and will focus on areas of identified need, including youth unemployment, school/work transition, the servicing of the Task Group on Youth Affairs, support of the National Youth Advisory Group, regular consultations with national youth co-ordinating bodies, conduct of the National Youth Conference in October, and the dissemination of information through the newsletter and other publications. 
The Office is continuously involved in consultation with the community on all areas of concern to youth, lt services the National Youth Advisory Group which broadly represents the major sectors of Australian youth which is primarily concerned with advising the Government of young people 's particular needs and concerns, and ofthe impact of its programs on young people. 
The Office is organising the National Youth Conference which is aimed at giving young people an opportunity to discuss matters of importance to the community. 
It has also set up links with the following national bodies representing youth organisations: 
The Australian Council of Social Service 
The Conference of Youth Organisations 
The National Youth Council of Australia 
The Conference of State Youth Councils. 
Specific and periodic consultations are also held with other national youth organisations. 
The outcomes of these consultations are taken into account in setting the activities of the OYA. 
Consultation with Youth (Question No. 4360) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government received a proposal from the National Youth Council of Australia entitled 'A Proposal for Consultation with Youth' in 1978. It has not rejected such a proposal. 
The Government has stressed its willingness to actively seek out youth opinion and involvement in proposing and evaluating youth programs and needs in a number of ways: 
On October 3 to 5 the Government is sponsoring the first ever, national youth conference, comprised of 120 young people from all walks of life in Australia to seek their views on youth issues, youth needs, and the contribution of young people to Australia's future. A major topic will be communication with Government. 
It has established an independent National Youth Advisory Group composed of young people from throughout Australia which is actively seeking the views of young people and organisations. 
The Office of Youth Affairs now meets regularly with the national peak youth organisations and is examining the means of further developing this forum for cooperation and exchange of views. This will add to the topic specific discussions that the OYA has with youth bodies and individuals on a continuing basis. 
The Government awaits the views of the National Youth Conference before further consideration is given to the development of improved communication between Government and youth. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to section 48a of the Public Service Act, which reads as follows: "48a. An officer seconded for duty as Private Secretary to a Minister or member of the Federal Executive Council or to the Leader of the Opposition in either House of the Parliament, shall, upon the termination of his employment in that capacity, be entitled to appointment to an office in the Service of such status and salary as are determined by the Board, having regard to the office held by the officer prior to his being seconded for such duty and to the period and nature of his employment as Private Secretary. 
The Public Service Board has informed me that procedures to be applied to Public Service Act staff who desire to be employed on the personal staff of Ministers, Senators or Members of Parliament are set out in the Board's Memorandum to all Departments No. 75/7075 dated 2 1 September 1976. The Memorandum reads as follows: "Consideration has been given recently to the treatment of Public Service Act staff who desire to be employed on the personal staff of Ministers, Senators and Members of Parliament. It has now been agreed with the Department of Administrative Services that the following procedures should be followed. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following ACOA's direction that staff 'be "absent from work" on Tuesday, 29 May 1979, to protest against retrenchment legislation before Parliament', the Public Service Board, on 28 May 1979, informed all departments and authorities of action which in the Board's view should be taken in relation to absences, viz. as a matter of principle leave designed for other purposes should not be used to permit staff to receive pay while engaging in industrial action; staff on unauthorised absence should forfeit their pay; where staff apply for leave the normal processes should apply and genuine applicants should not be penalised. All applications for leave should be considered against the need to maintain adequate staffing levels; retrospective leave cover for the day should not be given and a medical certificate should be required for a single day's absence on sick leave. Requirements for early notification and forfeiture of pay for absence because of alleged illness or for other reasons should be strictly observed. 
The purpose of this advice was to provide a basis for consistent and equitable treatment of staff, recognising that applications for recreation leave, leave without pay and approved absences under flexible working hours arrangements are all within the powers of Chief Officers of departments and authorities to grant. The number of staff who may have utilised authorised leave to observe the ACOA direction is not known. So far as it is available, the information requested is shown in detail in the following table. Information in respect of part (d) of the question is not provided since officers of the 4th division are not eligible for ACOA membership. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1)1 understand the honourable member is referring to the recent appeal case before the Industrial Court of Queensland concerning the payment of under award wages to Aboriginals employed on the Yarrabah Aboriginal Reserve near Cairns, by the Director of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement. An examination of the transcript in that case discloses that counsel for the Director did not 'dispute in court that payment of $74 per week for work entitling employees to an award wage of$ 135.82 as building workers was in breach of Federal law passed in 1 975 '. The appeal which was allowed on 29 May 1979 was decided on the interpretation of the relevant Queensland law. 
I am not aware of any such proposal. 
No. But the Government will continue to support Aboriginal community initiatives in Queensland within the constraints of available finance and other priorities. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
See answer to Question No. 4299,  Hansard  of 1 1 September 1979, pages 972, 973. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) No. 
The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies has been commissioned to establish baseline data on the social environment and monitor the social impact on Aboriginals living in the Alligator Rivers Region. In addition, Departmental staff have been located in the Alligator Rivers area. This is related to the lack of available data in these fields. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Training allowances were paid to Aboriginals in communities managed by government and by missions in the Northern Territory and not to Aboriginal workers in the pastoral industry. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 have seen a copy of a petition to the Northern Territory Chief Minister which was circulated in Alice Springs earlier this year. A Press report in the  Centralian Advocate of  7 June stated that  Mr Ted  Skuse 'declined to confirm or deny he was the author of the petition'. I understand that  Mr Skuse  is a partner in the legal firm of Mildren, Skuse and Partners, Alice Springs, but has no connection with the firm of Mildren and Partners, Darwin. 
Yes. 
I understand that the assertions in the petition were discussed at two public meetings in Alice Springs last June and that a document setting out some of the facts about the special Aboriginal housing program of the Northern Territory Housing Commission in Alice Springs was circulated at the meeting on 9 June. I have also seen reports of statements by Aboriginal organisations in Alice Springs, commenting on what were described as 'untrue and insulting things' written about Aboriginal applicants for Commission housing in the petition. 
I am informed that the Northern Territory Government has reduced the initial special housing program in Alice Springs, which is to be funded by grants from my Department, from IS to 10 houses and has decided that houses built under this program will not be located adjacent to privately owned houses in Alice Springs. 
I am not aware of any prior consultation with 'prospective tenants' before these decisions were taken. There is a list of Aboriginal applicants for housing commission houses in Alice Springs but I am informed that no decisions have been made on the allocation of the houses now under construction as part of the special program. 
See ( I ) above. The firm of Mildren, Skuse and Partners, Alice Springs, has not been engaged by the Northern 
Land Council, but the Council has retained the firm of Mildren and Partners, Darwin. 
I am informed that the Central Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service is not contracting work to the firm of Mildren, Skuse and Partners, Alice Springs, but that firm was engaged earlier this year to draft a contract of employment for the director of the CAALAS. 
The CAALAS has advised that members may have access to minutes of meetings and the Director's contract of employment on request at the offices of the CAALAS. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Details of the number of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders employed at each level in the Department are not available for 1 973. The figures for June 1 976 and 1 979 are as follows: 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, a Land Council may, at any time, by resolution, elect a new Chairman. No such resolution, nor any vacancy in the office of Chairman, has been brought to my attention. 
I am not aware of any such allegation. 
It is the responsibility of a Land Council, rather than that of its  Chairman,  to satisfy itself that the traditional Aboriginal owners of any Aboriginal land understand the nature and purpose of any proposed action in connection with that land. Inquiries about resolutions of the Northern Land Council might be addressed to the Council itself. 
No.  Mr Viner  announced on 16 January 1978 that grants to the Maningrida Council were being terminated because the Council had not been meeting or exercising effective control of community affairs for many months. He indicated that the cessation of grants would mean that the services of all employees of the Council would be terminated. 
General guidelines for the administration of programs of the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs are provided in the Ministerial Directive each year and the Department's Financial Rules outline what is required of organisations receiving grants. Officers of the Depanment are expected to offer advice and help to Aboriginal organisations and to ensure that they comply with conditions of grants, including observance of the financial rules. 
Aboriginal Self -management  (Question No. 4605) 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Queensland Government retains responsibility for Aboriginal and Island Reserves, including the development of the management responsibilities of Aboriginal and Island Councils in accordance with its stated policy that these Councils should progressively assume normal local government responsibilities. It also retains responsibility for the regulations of exploration and mining on reserves. The Commonwealth Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs provides direct grants and other assistance to reserve communities in Queensland in response to their requests. The Depanment is also co-ordinating the provision of a variety of training courses for Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland and these include some courses designed to meet the needs of Aboriginals and Islanders in reserve communities (and at Aurukun and Mornington Island) for training in such fields as management, meeting procedures, clerical skills and community work: 
February/March- 4 week course for Councils and Cooperatives clerks in the Torres Strait; 
May /July- 13 week course in management skills at Mornington Island; 
September- 2 day course for Mornington Shire Councillors 
Other courses planned or under consideration include: 12 week course for resident Aboriginal community workers; 8 week course for Island Councillors; courses in bookkeeping. 
The Aboriginal Land Fund Commission has purchased areas of freehold land and some leasehold land for communities in Queensland and policy on the transfer of pastoral leases is being discussed between the Queensland and Commonwealth Governments. 
Commonwealth laws have been enacted to override certain provisions of Queensland legislation affecting Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. As indicated in previous statements on this subject, these laws are available to be used by Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders who wish to do so and the Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service is able to provide advice and assistance. 
International Year of the Child Sand Castle Competition  (Question No. 4639) 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1 978 does not refer to 'a two-thirds consensus in favour' of self-management. It provides for the declaration of reserves and communities as ones to which the Act applies where the Council for a reserve requests the Minister to make such a declaration or where the Minister is satisfied that a substantial majority of the adult Aboriginals resident on the reserve wish to manage and control their own affairs in the manner provided for by the Act. 
The Council of the Yarrabah Reserve made a request in January for declaration under the Act but at the same time asked that I negotiate with the Queensland Government for land tenure. 
and (S) In my statement of 11 September 1979, I indicated that talks are to be held in Brisbane to develop proposals to be put to the Yarrabah community and discussed with the Council in November when Commonwealth and State Ministers will visit Yarrabah. 
I am not aware of any such request having been put to me by the Yarrabah Council, I have sought no legal advice on 'power to remedy breaches of Federal Law by the Queensland Government ' and I am not aware of any request by the Council or the Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Legal Service for additional funds for 'the presentation of their case to Governments and courts '. 
Perhaps it would be worth while informing the House of the full range of statistics provided by the Australian Statistician. In the results published today of a special survey on persons looking for work, which was conducted in July 1979, of 372,800 unemployed persons looking for work, that is, work of any kind- full time or part time- 16.7 per cent reported that their main difficulty in finding a job was that there were no vacancies in their line of work. In July 1978, the proportion was 15.1 per cent. In July 1979 30.3 per cent reported that there were no vacancies at all. In July 1978, the comparative figure was higher, 38.2 per cent. In the recent survey 13.8 per cent reported that they were considered by employers to be too young or too old. Of the remainder- and I emphasise these figures to the House- 8 per cent were considered to have insufficient work experience and 7.9 per cent were considered to be lacking the necessary education or skills. That means that some 16 per cent of those persons who are looking for work cannot find it because they lack work experience or lack the necessary education and skills. 
This is precisely the area at which a transition policy between school and work is directed. All the survey results available to the Government indicate and all our experience has been that it is the young, inexperienced, unskilled, unemployed person who has the hardest task in the labour market- not only now but in the past. Therefore, a transition policy, a comprehensive policy seeking to further the education of young people beyond compulsory, general education schooling into the technical field, into the further education field, into trade training, into vocational training, which of course is wider than trade training, and into work experience programs will help those who at present are unemployable because they lack that experience or that skill. 
I would have thought that the statistics produced today justified the concern of this Government to penetrate that area of young people, and to penetrate it in a constructive way that will give them alternatives to inactivity through unemployment. They will be positive alternatives- alternatives that provide work experience and better educational and vocational training opportunities. As I pointed out to the House yesterday, the experience in West Germany under a vocational training policy has shown that it produces less youth unemployment. That is the objective of this Government and that is the objective to which our transition policy will be directed. 
I can positively refute those assertions. I think that anybody who makes a fairminded assessment of the 1 20 young people who attended that conference would say that they were representative of all parts of Australia, of all young people in Australia. They were from all walks of life, from rural, city, Aboriginal and ethnic backgrounds. Deliberately there were unemployed people there. There were professionals and students and there were some 1 5 and 1 6 year old boys and girls present. Some of them were attending secondary schools or tertiary and technical institutions. Some represented youth organisations. As I have said, I think any person who made a fair-minded assessment would say that they represented the young people of Australia. They did not represent the kinds of people who sought to demonstrate outside the Australian National University on the arrival of the Prime Minister and me and who sought to demonstrate within for the purpose of disrupting the conference. I speak in particular of the Unemployed Workers Union because it was the Unemployed Workers Union in Canberra which sent out an invitation which, among other things, called on people to bring a friend, or two, and a plate, old tomatoes, eggs, et cetera. It was also the Unemployed Workers Union which, from a post office box in Canberra- No. 1875- sent out a leaflet saying that the union opposed the idea of having a conference. I am very pleased to say that the overwhelming view of the conference was that the young people of Australia wanted a conference. 
It should be of some interest to the House, as I know it is of particular interest to the honourable member for Canberra, that the post office box No. 1875 also appears as the postal address of the following organisations: Canberra and South East Region Environment Centre; Friends of the Earth, Canberra; Movement Against Uranium Mining; Mumimbidgee Monitor Association; South Coast Committee; Action for Public Transport; and the Australian Conservation Foundation. The Canberra directory of public organisations from which I take this information shows as the contact point for the Australian Conservation Foundation a  Mr A.  Sorrensen. I am advised that he is a legislative assistant on the staff of the honourable member for Reid. The House will recall that during the Ranger negotiations with the Northern Land Council we were able to pinpoint a member of the staff of the honourable member as one of those who were demonstrating and agitating to prevent the signing of that agreement. So we can make the same link. 
For the information of honourable members I present material received in January 1979 from  Mr Justice  Staples concerning human rights together with the text of a statement by the Attorney-General relating to the material. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Revised CYSS guidelines have been drafted following consultations with State CYSS committee chairmen, comments by federal members of Parliament and departmental officers concerned with the administration of the program, and submissions by local CYSS Project Officers. 
The revised guidelines are currently being considered and will be released as soon as possible. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's decision to review the work test arrangements was in response to a concern that persons who are not making reasonable attempts to obtain work or who might be refusing work that is available or otherwise are not meeting the requirements of the Social Services Act should not be assisted at the expense of the general taxpayer. 
Defence Housing in Sydney (Question No. 4469) 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question because the presence of organised crime within Australia or the role of Australian organised crime overseas must be a matter of concern to the nation. The honourable member will appreciate, however, that the control of organised crime is primarily a responsibility of the States. The Commonwealth for its part is watching very closely developments within the States for handling this problem. There are no immediate plans for the establishment of a national crime commission. I point out, however, that the Commonwealth has cooperated with the States in the establishment of the Australian Institute of Criminology, which has a clear interest in this area. 
Other steps taken by the Commonwealth to counter the development of organised crime are referred to in an answer given by the AttorneyGeneral to a question asked by  Senator Puplick.  For the information of the honourable member, it appears at page 782 of the Senate  Hansard  of 19 September 1979. I think the AttorneyGeneral would feel that before referring the possible establishment of a national crime commission to the Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral the question whether the Institute of Criminology could fulfil a role would first need to be considered. I will refer the honourable gentleman's question to the Attorney-General. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
I present to the House, on behalf of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  his statement of the report of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner on the Uluru and Lake Amadeus Luritja land claim. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. He led the Australian delegation to the Second Meeting of Young Commonwealth Leaders held in Colombo in May of this year. He led that delegation very well. Later in this session, he will be making a statement to the House on the results of that meeting. The matters to which the honourable gentleman referred are of direct relevance to the discussion of a school-to-work transition policy on which I and my colleague, the Minister for Education, have been working in co-operation with the States. The report of the Colombo meeting which has now come to hand addresses itself very directly to this question under the heading: 'The Role of Education in Alleviating Youth Unemployment'. The report stated: 
The Young Leaders proposed that a review of educational aims and methods would ensure that, on the one hand, these schemes could encourage fuller and more varied units of training and, on the other hand, provide combinations of work experience, training and job-seeking skills on a graduated level. 
Furthermore, the report pointed to the necessary relationship between education and employment. That is the very thing to which the Schools Commission in its report of this year, the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training, Professor Karmel,  Senator Carrick  and I, amongst others, have pointed as an area of urgent need. That is why the Government is directing its attention to this area. As I said, the development of a school-to-work transition policy is not something new. It has been a matter of serious debate in the public arena amongst educationalists and others who are concerned with youth unemployment. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to insert two new offences in the Crimes (Aircraft) Act to deal with threats and false statements directed at Commonwealth aerodromes and air navigation facilities, and with conduct that endangers or is likely to endanger those places or the safety of persons using those places. 
Whilst bomb hoax telephone calls involving threats and warnings that explosive devices have been placed in airport buildings and facilities are a relatively new phenomenon in Australia, the incidence of such calls is on the increase. In order to ensure the safety of persons using those premises, each threat call must be treated as genuine until subsequent action proves it otherwise. This will often necessitate a thorough search of the relevant airport, baggage and waiting passengers. In several cases, it has been necessary to recall aircraft in flight. Furthermore, fake as well as home made bombs have been found at airports in recent times. These bombs, had they exploded, would have at the very least caused panic due to the smoke they would have generated. Incidents of the type I have just mentioned often lead to delays and considerable inconvenience of passengers and other persons at airports as well as adding to the costs of the airline companies. 
Whilst the Telecommunications (General) ByLaws made under the Telecommunications Act 1975 deal with hoax telephone calls and State laws make offences some of the other actions causing concern, it is considered that, having regard to the seriousness of these actions, special provision should be made for these matters in the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963. Sections 17 and 19 of that Act already proscribe similar actions in relation to aircraft. Moreover, the penalties provided in respect of the proposed new offences correspond to those specified in sections 17 and 1 9 of the Crimes (Aircraft) Act. 
I turn now to the specific provisions of the Bill. As will be noted, clause 4 inserts in the Crimes (Aircraft) Act a new Part IIIA, titled 'Crimes Affecting Certain Aerodromes and Air Navigation Facilities', containing sections 20 A, 20B and 20c. Proposed new section 20A defines Commonwealth aerodrome' and 'Commonwealth air navigation facilities' in terms of Commonwealth-owned aerodromes and facilities. When this legislation has been enacted by the Parliament, the Commonwealth AttorneyGeneral will have discussions with the State Attorneys-General with a view to the enactment of similar laws to cover airports within the responsibility of State governments. 
Proposed new section 20b makes it an offence, punishable by a maximum of 7 years imprisonment, for a person to do any act or thing that, to his knowledge, is likely to endanger the safety of a Commonwealth aerodrome or any Commonwealth air navigation facilities, or persons who are, or may be, within the limits of those premises. New sub-section 20c (1) will make it an offence, punishable by a maximum of 2 years imprisonment, to threaten to destroy, damage or endanger the safety of a Commonwealth aerodrome or Commonwealth air navigation facilities or to threaten to kill or injure persons who are, or may be, within the limits of those premises. Proposed new sub-section 20C (2) makes it an offence, punishable by a maximum of 2 years imprisonment, falsely to threaten to take or exercise control, by force or violence, of a Commonwealth aerodrome or Commonwealth air navigation facilities, or to destroy, damage or endanger the safety of or to kill or injure persons who are, or may be, within the limits of such an aerodrome or facilities. 
Clause 5 amends section 26 of the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963 to extend the existing power of search provided in that section with respect to aircraft to cover persons, luggage, freight or vehicles found within the limits of the subject aerodromes or facilities where a person authorised to make searches for the purposes of the section reasonably suspects that an offence against Part IIIa has been or may be committed. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-The Government is not able to accept the proposed amendment. Whilst I can understand the Opposition, in the name of a bipartisan approach to security in Australia, seeking to be as fully informed as possible about the activities of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, I think there are places where the functions of government must be separated from and seen to be distinct from the need for information to be provided to the Opposition. One cannot take away from the fact that the Government has certain responsibilities through the legislation and as part of the normal functions of executive government. 
When one looks at Division 2 of Part III of the Bill which details the special powers of the Director-General of ASIO in respect of the entry of premises, listening devices and the inspection of postal articles, one sees that it is necessary for a warrant to be obtained before those special powers can be exercised and that that warrant must be obtained from and given by the responsible Minister- in this case the Attorney-General. That is the first point to appreciate. There is a statutory responsibility on the Attorney-General to satisfy himself about certain matters before he issues a warrant. There is a statutory responsibility on the Director-General to provide certain information to the Attorney-General so that the Attorney's responsibility can be properly exercised in order to ensure that the civil liberties of an individual are properly protected. 
The specific request made here is that the Leader of the Opposition should be informed of each and every warrant that is issued. I point out that the Prime Minister, for example, is not to be informed of individual warrants. The provision of such information to the Prime Minister, let alone to the Leader of the Opposition, would be contrary to the general principle that Ministers should not ordinarily receive information in detail of the Organisation's activities. This Division provides that certain information must be provided in order that the Attorney-General may properly exercise his responsibility of being satisfied that it is necessary for the warrant to be issued before that is actually done. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  discussed this particular amendment, which was put forward by the Opposition in the Senate.  His  comments are recorded at page 1388 of  Hansard  of 5 April 1979. The Attorney-General also accepted in the Senate a proposal which now appears as clause 21, which states: 
The Director-General shall consult regularly with the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives for the purpose of keeping him informed on matters relating to security. 
Again, the Attorney agreed to the provision in clause 94, that a copy of the annual report which is provided to the Attorney-General by the Director-General shall also be provided to the Leader of the Opposition with the corresponding duty on the Leader of the Opposition to treat it as secret. Those provisions show the concern of the Government to bring a bipartisan approach to the operation of ASIO consistent with the responsibilities of government and with the special nature of the Organisation itself. I think there is an important distinction between a statutory requirement to provide the Leader of the Opposition with specific information about each warrant that is issued, and leaving it to the Leader of the Opposition, when the DirectorGeneral consults with him, to seek such further information about the exercise of the special powers as he may want to know. I think that is a far better basis upon which to approach this particular area of the activities of the Organisation. In other words, there is a duty upon the DirectorGeneral to consult with the Leader of the Opposition and to keep the Leader of the Opposition informed on matters relating to security. Within that process it is left for the Leader of the Opposition to seek what further information he desires, if he is concerned to know how the issue of warrants is managed, the number of warrants that are issued, how they are handled by the Director-General and so on. 
I think, without going into any further detail of what the Attorney-General said in the Senate, I can understand fully the points that he made in the television interview between himself and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. What the Attorney-General was doing, in the encapsulated form in which he must speak before the television camera within the time constraints that we know operate at such times, was really saying essentially what he said at great length in the Senate as I have referred to at page 1387 of  Hansard.  I think that really, looked at in that way, our declining to accept this amendment in no way detracts from our concern as a government to bring to bear a bipartisan approach to the operation of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
I want to make two short points. I did not say that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was to be regarded as a wing of government. 
It was not an implication of what I said. What I understood the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  to say was that really one cannot trust the Attorney-General in the exercise of his statutory responsibility nor in the discharge of his office as Minister according to the oath which he must give to be a reasonable chap but that one can trust the Leader of the Opposition, whoever he or she may be, at any given time to be such a reasonable person to see that the civil liberties of the subjects of Australia are properly protected. The whole point is that in effect the Attorney-General, in the discharge of his statutory and ministerial responsibilities, is seeing that the issue of warrants is properly done according to the law of the land. 
The second point I make is that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  said that he accepted the principles of clause 7A ( 1 ) and 7A (4) of the amendment put forward in the Senate. Those two provisions now appear as clause 21 and clause 94 respectively of the Bill now before the chamber. The Attorney-General in the Senate opposed proposed clauses 7A (2) and (3) which now appear as proposed new clause 7A ( 1 ) and (2) in this chamber. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
Question put: 
That the new clause proposed to be inserted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  be so inserted. 
I feel that the arguments advanced by the Opposition proceed upon a misapprehension of the meaning and effect of clause 8 and the basic reason behind the Government's framing of the clause. Principally it is that the Minister responsible for the legislation cannot give political direction to the Director-General. One can see that coming out from the nature of the exceptions provided for in clause 8(2) which in paragraph (a) says that the Minister- that is, the Attorney-General- is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General, firstly, on the question whether the collection of intelligence by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation concerning a particular individual would or would not be justified by reason of its relevance to security. In other words, the Attorney-General is not to give any political direction to the DirectorGeneral as to the collection of intelligence concerning a particular individual. 
Paragraph (b) states that the AttorneyGeneral cannot override the opinion of the Director-General on the question whether a communication of intelligence concerning a particular individual would be for a purpose relevant to security. In other words, again the Minister is prevented from giving any political direction to the Director-General as to the communication of intelligence. Paragraph (c) states that the Attorney-General cannot override the opinion of the Director-General concerning the nature of the advice that should be given by the Organisation to a Minister, department or authority of the Commonwealth. In other words, the Attorney-General is not to be able to direct the Director-General as to the advice that is to be given. That advice must be the professional advice of the Director-General in fulfilment of his functions under the legislation relating to the national security of the nation. 
The other important factor to bear in mind is the distinction which these paragraphs draw between intelligence and advice. It is a distinction which Opposition members have failed to perceive or at least if they have seen that it exists they have failed to appreciate the difference between the two. The word 'advice' in the context of this clause is used in the sense of counsel as opposed to information or intelligence. There is nothing in this clause which prevents the Attorney-General from obtaining information that he desires within the provisions of the Act. What it does, as I have said, is to prevent the Attorney-General giving any direction of a political kind concerning the collection of intelligence, the communication of intelligence or the advice which is to be proffered by the DirectorGeneral. Having listened to the Opposition, I would have thought that the very thing that the Opposition wants to prevent is any political control or political direction over the operation of the Organisation. At the same time there has to be ministerial responsibility by the AttorneyGeneral for the general operation of the Organisation. 
Clause 8 provides that the Organisation shall be under the control of the Director-General but that in the performance of his functions under the Act, the Director-General is subject to the general directions of the Attorney-General. Therefore, when it comes to clause 8 and in particular clause 8 sub-clause (2) (c) as well as the proposal by the Opposition to amend the clause by adding provisions entitling the Minister to access to all records of the Organisation and entitling the Minister to be informed as to the existence of any file, dossier or record held by or compiled by the Organisation, the Government rejects the proposed amendments. It feels that the appropriate relationship between the AttorneyGeneral and the Director-General is one where the operation of the Organisation is under the control of the Director-General and whilst he is capable of being given general directions by the Minister, he cannot be given specific directions regarding the collection of intelligence and the communication of intelligence or the nature of advice to be given by the Organisation to a Minister, department or authority of the Commonwealth. 
I really ought to reply briefly to what the  Deputy Leader  of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said.  His  proposition that paragraph (c) of clause 8 subclause (2) could allow the Director-General to refuse to give advice, I suggest, with respect, is an absurdity. I would have thought that the words the nature of the advice ' in that paragraph mean what they say. They do not mean that the Director-General can refuse to give advice when requested or can refuse to furnish advice. What they mean is that the Attorney-General cannot give directions to the Director-General as to the advice, the kind of advice and opinions expressed in the advice which is provided to a Minister, department or authority of the Commonwealth. 
I should also point out that nothing in the exception prohibits the Attorney-General from directing the Director-General to furnish information or intelligence on any subject. It does not prohibit the Attorney-General from advising another Minister or authority that he disagrees with the advice of the Director-General, in the unlikely event of that occurring. But it does prevent the Attorney-General from directing the Director-General as to the advice which is given. I should also inform the honourable gentleman that  Mr Justice  Hope was not asked to review clause 8. 
Question put: 
That the paragraph proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
, the Telecommunications Amendment Bill 1979 and the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. 
-I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979: 
For the remainder of the committee stage, until 8.20 p.m. this day; 
For the remaining stages, until 8.30 p.m. this day; 
Telecommunications (Interception) Bill 1979 [No. 2] -For the remaining stages, until 10 p.m. this day; 
Telecommunications Amendment Bill 1979- For the remaining stages, until 10.15 p.m. this day; 
Customs Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979-For the remaining stages, until 10.30 p.m. this day. 
In giving the reasons for introducing this limitation to the debate, let me explain that it has been found necessary during this Budget session to create a balance between the Budget debate, the debates within Estimates committees and the debates on the Budget Bills as well as debates on other important legislation which is before the House. Included in those important Bills are those upon which this limitation of debate is being placed. Let me point out to the House that already there has been very extensive debate on all these Bills in the other place and in this House. The time taken in the Senate for debate on these Bills was just under 30 hours. Already in this House we have spent some 18 hours and 15 minutes in debate. With the time now allotted before completion there will be a total of 2 1 hours debate in this House. Therefore I think that all honourable members will appreciate that with 5 1 hours of debate on this Bill the Government has allowed very extensive time. I have previously advised the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the Manager of Opposition Business that the Government is anxious to complete the passage of these Bills by this evening. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out particulars of the amount of time taken in debate in this House as well as the figures that I have mentioned relating to debate in the Senate. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910173_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

Just in case the Opposition should think that the Government is using a heavy hand in bringing about this limitation of debate on these Bills, let me just compare the experience of the Parliament under the present Government since it was elected to office late in 1975 and the experience when  Mr Fred  Daly was Leader of the House between autumn of 1973 and the Budget of 1975. I remember this very well because Fred Daly as Leader of the House for the Labor Government, was a very good mentor. Just to show the earnestness with which this Government approaches the operation of the Parliament and the opportunity for debate in this Parliament, I mention these total figures. Under the former Labor Government, Bills initiated totalled 694; Bills passed, 504; closures, 404; matters of public importance, 93; and guillotines 26. That was 26 guillotines involving 59 Bills. Under the present Government, the totals are: Bills initiated, 618; Bills passed, 581; closures, 296; matters of public importance, 154, against the Labor Government's 93; and guillotines, 3. 

Three guillotines involving only seven Bills. I ask leave of the Parliament to incorporate that table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910173_30_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I think that this House will appreciate that the Government has allowed very extensive debate in the Senate and in this House on what we do acknowledge is a Bill of considerable importance. We bring down this guillotine only in order to facilitate the business of the Parliament in this very busy Budget session. 
I wish to make some brief remarks concerning the amendment. But first let me deal with what the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said last night at 10.29. 1 think everyone in this chamber, certainly those on this side, would consider that outrageous allegations have been made, in effect, against the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth of Australia  (Senator Durack),  although the honourable member was not prepared to say that, because it is the 
Attorney-General who must approve the issue of a warrant on the recommendation of the Director-General. The allegation was that a phone tap had been put on the private phone of  Mr Justice  Staples by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It is an outrageous allegation because, among other things, the honourable member would know that the present practice of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Attorney-General in relation to parliamentary questions concerning ASIO is not to comment, that is, neither to confirm nor to deny any allegations or presumed allegations.  Mr Justice  Hope in volume I of the fourth report at page 2 1 9 said that he thought that that practice should continue except in very special circumstances. Paragraph 781, at page 259, under the heading 'Parliamentary Responsibility' in the recommendations of that same volume, states: 
That the present practice, whereby the Prime Minister and the Minister administering the ASIO Act do not confirm or deny any allegations, or presumed allegations, in respect of ASIO, continue in force. 
I am sure the honourable member for Hindmarsh knew of that recommendation. Notwithstanding that, he was prepared to make those allegations. I also notice that it was reported on one radio station this morning that the honourable gentleman was not prepared to repeat the allegations outside the chamber. I should however point out that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has already had a number of briefings by the Director-General of ASIO. If the Leader of the Opposition wishes to have a briefing concerning the allegation by the honourable member, the Government will certainly facilitate that briefing by the Director-General. As to the other allegations concerning the conduct of ASIO and  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy, it is a matter of rehashing what was a great political scandal at the dme. I do not intend to embark upon any comment on it. 
In directing my attention to the amendment moved by the Opposition, I would say that the Bill, as now drafted, gives effect to the longstanding philosophy that while the Minister responsible, that is, the Attorney-General, should in a general way be responsible for the activities of the Organisation- and I refer to the speech by the late  Dr Evatt  in 1956- he should not concern himself with the details of the activities of the Organisation except insofar as this is necessary for the carrying out of the Minister's responsibilities. The Opposition's amendment assumes that the Attorney-General could police the activities of the Organisation by ascertaining the existence or non-existence of specific files but without access to contents. This is a fallacy because the mere existence of a file in the Organisation is virtually meaningless. The best example I can give of that is that files are kept on persons having a top secret clearance. Surely it can be assumed that the Director-General, whoever he or she is, having regard to the manner of his or her selection will truthfully and accurately report to the Attorney-General as required. Likewise, the Director-General must be prepared to answer the questions of the Leader of the Opposition in regular consultations. 
The proposal to give the Minister a right of access to files as a method of policing the activities of the Organisation is, with the greatest respect to the Opposition and particularly the honourable member for Hindmarsh, based on a crude misunderstanding of the real position. Furthermore, the Opposition directly seeks to intrude politics and political considerations into the operations of ASIO. The Government believes that the general power of direction given to the Attorney-General in clause 8 of the Bill, meeting as it does the longstanding philosophy, does provide the Parliament through the ministerial responsibility of the Attorney-General with a safeguard to watch over the affairs of ASIO together with the other safeguards that are built into the exercise of special powers, the requirement of an annual report and the requirement of regular consultation and briefings with the Leader of the Opposition. Therefore, the Government opposes the amendment. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)- The request of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition will be acceded to. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 9 to 17- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 18 (Communication of intelligence et cetera). 
I simply draw the attention of the honourable gentleman to clause 27 of the Bill which requires the Comptroller-General of Customs to furnish to the Minister responsible for the legislation a copy of each warrant issued under clauses 20 or 2 1 , and the Minister, of course, is responsible to this Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)-It  being 10 p.m. the time allotted for the remaining stages of the Bill has expired. The question is: That amendments 10 to 16 be agreed to'. 
Question put. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2), (3), (4) and (5) The information requested is not available since statistics collected relate to Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) Office areas or, as in the case of expenditure on manpower programs, to Regions, neither of which correspond with Electoral Divisions. 
Total Program expenditure is as follows: 1976-77-$6.6m; 1977-78-$47.1m; 1978-79-$82.6m. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The allocation for Aboriginal training under the NEAT System for 1979-80 is estimated to be $ 17.5m which is approximately 25 per cent of the total allocation. There is no separate allocation for widow and repatriation pensioners and migrants under NEAT. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) Not available. 
On 2 1 September  Mr Eddie  Mabo submitted his resignation with effect from 19 October 1979.  His  letter of resignation did not give reasons for his resignation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Peak youth organizations, youth worker agencies and State organizations have regular meetings with the OYA and they also frequently consult on an Ad Hoc basis. At State Government level there have been regular requests for assistance and a considerable and sustained interest in OYA shown by State bodies. The anticipation by youth bodies of relevant information and assistance forthcoming from the Office has declined somewhat since its inception but still remains significant. 
The Office has processed applications for PAYO funds from 25 national youth organizations indicating a very positive response to its activities. 
Five members of staff left in the 12 months to 30 August. Expressed as a percentage of existing establishment the rate of turnover of staff was 20 per cent. Percentages for such small numbers are not significant. 
Reasons for individual staff movement are not divulged. 
Aboriginal Self -management (Question No. 4457) 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Stated joint party policy does not address itself to situations where State policies are not in agreement with Commonwealth policy. Where there is conflict between Commonwealth and State policies, however, discussion is initiated with a view to reaching agreement. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Restrictions recently imposed on fishing in a number of rivers in the Cape York Peninsula area are set out in  Queensland Government Gazette  No. 12 of 17 September 1977. 1 am informed that the concentration of fishing vessels in the Archer River is relatively high at present, with some 4 to 9 vessels operating in the River at any one time. Although the Aurukun people do fish in other streams the Archer River is an important traditional fishing ground. 
and (3) I am not aware of any such circumstances but I have drawn the attention of the Queensland Minister for Local Government to the matter. 
(a) The control of fisheries is a State Government responsibility and the Queensland police officers stationed at Aurukun are empowered with the authority of fisheries inspectors. My Department is currently discussing current State legislation pertaining to commercial fishing in Queensland with the State Department of Local Government and Primary Industries. 
The Shire Council has restricted the introduction of alcohol into the Shire to one carton of beer per adult per week. This quota system is administered by the local police under Council supervision. The Council is currently exploring the need to introduce by-laws for closer regulation of alcohol consumption in the Shire. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I discussed the proposal with both the Central Land Council and the Northern Territory Government and hope to soon be placing a submission on the matter before the Government. 
No. The land in question became alienated upon being gazetted as a National Park on 24 May 1977. The terms of the freeze on the alienation of Crown Land were that land would not be alienated if a land claim had been lodged or if any intention to lodge had been expressed. As at 24 May 1977 no claim had been lodged nor had any intention been formally expressed. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The Nyampa Housing Company had a house built on a block owned privately by an Aboriginal, the owner having undertaken to sell the block to the Company. The owner died before the transfer was effected and the present owner has undertaken to buy the house from the Company. A contract has been drawn up between the owner of the land and the Housing Company for payment of the cost of the house and installation of services and monthly repayments are being made. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) A grant of $95,000 was made to the Central Darling Shire for connection of sewerage and electricity to the Mallee Area. 
and (3) No, no such directive has been issued. 
Stanley Village Co-operative, Moree  (Question No. 4666) 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs approved a grant of $5,000 in 1978-79 to provide for general maintenance and repairs, council rates and services, electricity, casual wages, painting and renovations at Stanley Village Reserve. Of this amount $3,750 was released to a trustee on behalf of the Stanley Village Co-operative, because the organisation was still unincorporated, although it had initiated action to become incorporated some time ago. During the year the community decided to hand back responsibility for management of the reserve to the Aboriginal Lands Trust of New South Wales and accordingly the final instalment of the grant for the year ($ 1 ,250) is being paid to the Trust. 
and (3) The use of grant money for wages, motor vehicle and lawnmower repairs would be within the original purposes of the grant, but an audited financial statement giving details of expenditure incurred has not yet been received by my Department. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) No. The eight houses have not been condemned. Their condition has deteriorated and the Shire Council has been considering a report by a consultant health inspector on the condition of housing in the Shire. Housing associations and their tenants are expected to take responsibility for minor repairs and to meet the cost of maintenance from their own resources and rental collections. (3),(4)and (5)See (1)above 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department provided a grant of $34,783 to Jaxone Pty Ltd to employ 14 Aboriginals on cash crop projects and the development of an almond growing project, subject to review six months after commencement. 
Part of the grant was used by the company to buy cattle. Three Aboriginals were employed for various short periods. 
and (4) The Depanment has arranged for ownership of the cattle, which have increased in number and value, to be transferred to an appropriate aboriginal community organisation. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The identification, recording and protection of Aboriginal art sites is provided for in State and Territory legislation. Following a seminar arranged by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies in May 1972, the Commonwealth Government provided additional funds to the Institute for a program of recording and evaluating Aboriginal sites of significance. The Institute has since provided grants for site recording and has maintained a national site register. The responsible authorities in the States and Territories arrange for the protection of sites. 
No officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are engaged on this work. The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies employs a full-time Registrar of Sites to coordinate the recording program and maintain the register of sites. 
Nearly 23,000 sites have been recorded and catalogued. 
It is not practicable to provide details of so many sites. As indicated, the preservation of sites is a responsibility of State and Territory authorities. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1)and (2)Yes 
No. 
(a) The changes recommended in the Working Party Interim Report which are referred to in the question concern entry for mining purposes. Under the present provisions of the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust Act the Governor may proclaim that any rights of entry, prospecting, exploration or mining conferred under the Mining Act 1971-78 and the Petroleum Act 1940-78 are exercisable in relation to land vested in the Aboriginal Lands Trust. The Working Party recommended that such proclamation should not be made without the consent of the Trust and. where the land is leased, of the Aboriginal council or community leasing that land. 
Following on from this the Working Party recommended that in cases of mining being in the 'national interest ' and where Aboriginal consent has not been given, the remedy would be for the issue to be the subject of public debate, and for consequent amendment of the legislation if appropriate. The Working Party considered that Aboriginals should have control over the nature, location and other relevant aspects of mining activity and did not anticipate that any serious difficulty or obstruction to mining would be raised by the Aboriginal people. 
The Working Party recommendations are in the spirit of Aboriginal land rights legislation as implemented by the Commonwealth Government in the Northern Territory. 
The Commonwealth encourages such moves by State Governments. The recommendations are not inconsistent with (a) the Woodward Report and (b) the LiberalNational parties' policy statement on Aboriginal affairs. As regards (c) this was a judgment on the law which was later overturned by appeal to the Privy Council. I have already had preliminary consultation with the South Australian Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on a range of matters concerning Aboriginals. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. See reply to Question No. 466S. 
I am not personally aware of the information needed to answer the honourable gentleman's question. I will refer the question to my colleague and obtain a written answer for the honourable gentleman. 
As the honourable member would be aware, the Australian Statistician, by means of a household survey, surveys the number of people unemployed, both the 15 to 19-year-olds and those older than that. The basis upon which the Statistician makes that survey is an internationally accepted basis. The Government believes that it gives the fairest and most accurate assessment of the level of unemployment within the community. I should inform the honourable member that the Australian Statistician also does a survey of the persons looking for work. On 10 October this year the Statistician published the results of a survey done in July 1979. Although it does not go into detail such as the honourable member canvassed, it is indicative of some of the reasons why people find it difficult to get work. For example- I have mentioned some of these statistics in the past- 8.8 per cent of the people surveyed reported that the main difficulty in finding work was insufficient work experience. Another 7.9 per cent said that their main difficulty was the lack of necessary education and skills. In fact, I am advised that something like 50 per cent of the people surveyed gave one or other of those reasons as one of the difficulties that they had in finding work. 
This is at the heart of the Government's consideration of what is called the policy on the transition from school to work. We appreciate that surveys have shown that the primary reason why so many young people are unemployed is that they lack experience and they lack the skills required by employers- either specific skills or a broad range of educational competence. It is for that reason that we as a government believe that we must tackle this area constructively and positively, starting with the children in schools, prior to the end of compulsory schooling, and extending beyond that period into technical and further education and into a range of vocational training as well as work experience programs. I thank the honourable member for his question and I direct him, for further details, to the survey of 10 October by the Australian Statistician. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Attorney-General's Department 1978-79. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following response to the honourable member's question: 
to enable him to travel within Australia in the performance of his duties the following organisations have provided assistance since 1 July 1978: 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Eighteen members of a Japanese anti-nuclear group known as 'Japanese Against Atomic and Nuclear Bombs and Power' arrived in Australia on 19 May 1979. All members of the Group departed for New Zealand on 2 1 May. In accordance with the practice of successive Governments I do not propose to comment on any security measures which may have been adopted as a result of the visit of this Group. 
Telecom Australia: Employees in Electoral Division of Shortland  (Question No. 4340) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth Employment Service statistics relate to the Friday nearest the end of the month. Classification of vacancies by sex was discontinued in December 1978. At the same date registered unemployed adults and juniors, males and females were first published for metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas in each State- as were adult and junior vacancies. Prior to that date, data on total males and total females were the only figures published on a regular basis. Subject to these reservations the information sought by the honourable member may be found in the May 1979 issue of the  Monthly Review of the Employment Situation  published by my Department. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department is not involved in the kind of activities indicated, although some officers are engaged full or parttime on activities related to the monitoring of the impact of uranium mining on Aboriginals in the Alligator Rivers region. 
Aborigines in Aurukun Shire  (Question No. 4484) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Not to my knowledge. 
No. 
, (4) and (5) No by-laws have yet been adopted by the Aurukun or Mornington Island Councils or been approved and gazetted under the Queensland Local Government Act. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The agreement concluded between the Northern Land Council and Queensland Mines Limited does not provide for the movement of ore by road or sea. The ore will be processed in a mill located at the mine site. It is my understanding that both the traditional owners of the area concerned and the Aboriginal community at Oenpelli had agreed to the location of the mill at the mine site prior to the agreement being concluded. 
See (1) above. I have no reason to believe that the Northern Land Council is not properly constituted. (3)I have received no recent requests for the formation of new land councils. The Walpiri and Aranta people are in the area of the Central Land Council. The  Chairman  of the Central Desert Land Trust, recently nominated to hold title to land recommended to be granted by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner in his report on the Walpiri land claim, issued a public statement correcting reports indicating that a new land council was being formed and expressing support for the Central Land Council. 
See (3) above. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) None. As indicated in the Minister's Press statement of 16 January 1978 grants were terminated because the Council was not operating effectively and it was made clear that there would be consultations 'with the aim of establishing a new Council which could progressively resume responsibility for community affairs '. 
No action was taken by the Minister, but an officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs gave notice in writing to former employees of the Council that their authorisation to be on the reserve was terminated under the provision of the Social Welfare Ordinance. 
I am informed that representations were received from some members of the Maningrida community seeking the return of three of the former employees of the Council. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question because I have noticed from some of the comments on unemployment statistics - 
Particularly the remarks coming from the Opposition- that there is some confusion as to what the statistics actually represent. Of course, as one would expect, the Opposition has complaints to make about the Government, but I find it rather ironic that when one series shows an increase in the level of unemployment the Opposition is not ready to accept the results of another series which shows a decline in the unemployment figures. For a number of years this Government has said very clearly that it accepts the figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics as the correct measure of unemployment in the Australian community. It is an internationally accepted method of measuring the level of unemployment. 
The other area in which I find the Opposition in confusion is in seeking to compare the Commonwealth Employment Service's statistics with the Australian Statistician's statistics. Members of the Opposition apparently are not aware that the CES statistics show the registrants who are seeking full-time work, whereas the Statistician produces figures for both those seeking full-time work and those seeking part-time work. When it is said that the CES figures are now lower than the Australian Statistician's figures discrimination is not made between full-time and parttime work. In fact, the situation is this: The CES figures released yesterday showed a decline of 6,933 in the total registered unemployed seeking full-time work, bringing the figure down to 390,034. The Australian Statistician's figures for September showed an estimated 324,100 unemployed looking for full-time work. That is the correct comparison to make if one wants to compare figures of the CES and the Australian Statistician. The Statistician pointed out that, in addition, 73,900 people were seeking part-time work. So far as I am aware the measure of unemployment in the community has always been taken on the basis of those seeking full-time work. I ask honourable members to bear this distinction well and truly in mind. 
While I have the opportunity, perhaps I ought to reiterate why the Government does not accept the CES figures as a reliable measure of unemployment. A number of surveys have been undertaken since 1963. There were surveys in 1974 and in 1977. Furthermore, there was a report in November 1973, to the honourable member for Hindmarsh when he was Minister for Labour in the former Labor Government, by the Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics. I quote just one passage which bears out the stand taken by this Government. At page 40, in paragraph 3.41, the Committee stated: 
The Committee believes that the following conclusions maybe drawn from an examination of coverage rates: 
a ) CES unemployment statistics cannot be regarded as a measure of the level of unused labour resources in the economy. They are not reliable for purposes of: 
Measuring general and sectoral levels of unemployment; 
Comparing male and female unemployment rates; or 
Comparing unemployment rates between States, between capital cities and within States. 

 - Mr Speaker, I conclude with just these few sentences: When we are prepared to accept the Australian Statistician's figures we are, of course, prepared to accept the good with the bad. We have accepted the good from January to August and have acknowledged the disappointing figures that came forth for September. We hope that there will be continuing improvement. When one looks at the overall trend one will see that there has been an improvement this year in the unemployment situation. 
-I do recall the visit to Ballarat which I made with the honourable member for Ballarat. I might tell the House that we had a great day down there. We visited two factories and I must say that the reception given to my colleague by the people working in those two factories bears out his high reputation in Ballarat. 
I am sure that the Leader of the Opposition is well aware of the well established principle that has been followed by the present Prime Minister and by former Prime Ministers, both Labor and Liberal, namely, not to comment publicly on assertions or allegations about the activities of ASIO. I respond on the basis of that principle. I will refer the question to my colleague, the Attorney-General, to see whether he wishes to add anything. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Legislative Drafting Institute Act 1974 I present the annual report of the Legislative Drafting Institute 1979. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the National Training Council 1979 Training Study Mission and seek leave to make a statement on the report. 
Leave granted. 
-The National Training Council 's Mission was appointed in March of this year to examine and report to me on measures to promote systematic training in industry and commerce in Canada, the United States of America, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom. Specific areas which the Mission was asked to examine were: First, funding of training in industry and commerce; secondly, skills in short supply; thirdly, government funded skill centres; and fourthly, training for small business. The Mission comprised members of the National Training Council. The Mission was tripartite in character and was led by  Mr K.  J. Fitzgerald, a senior officer of my Department. Other members were  Mr C.  O. Dolan, Senior Vice-President, Australian Council of Trade Unions;  Mr R.  G. Fry, Chief Executive and National Director, Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia;  Mr T.  B. Prescott, proprietor, T. B. Prescott &amp; Co., Motor Engineers;  Mr R.  H. Wallace, Director of Technical and Further Education, Queensland; and  Mr A.  M. Coulthard, Secretary, National Training Council. 
In embarking on its examination of training in the countries selected, the Mission reports that it was conscious of a number of factors affecting the extent and quality of training in industry, the expansion of government expenditure on training, the failure by many firms to train to meet their own needs, the present emphasis of the National Employment and Training SystemNEAT upon the unemployed, the large number of small firms in many industries and a consequent unco-ordinated approach to training. All, according to the report, affect the quality and quantity of training in Australia. The report notes that: 
National and Regional shortages of skills must arise when the sum of the activity of individual firms is not adequate to meet needs. 
In addition, the report underlines that: 
It can no longer be ignored that the apprenticeship system is not meeting our needs for skilled tradesmen. 
This particular point cannot be ignored by anyone who is interested in the future supply of trade skills and particularly by the States, industry and the unions. The Commonwealth Government will certainly be giving this question the closest attention. The report makes a series of observations about training measures in the countries the Mission visited and proposes a series of positive measures to respond to our industrial "and commercial training needs of the 1980s. I believe that the observations and recommendations contained in the report will be an important contribution to the Government's consideration of the direction of our manpower policies. In view of the report, arrangements for industry training in Australia compare well with arrangements in the countries surveyed. Particular strengths in Australia which the Report highlights are the technical and further education system, the initiatives of the National Training Council and its industry training committees, and the training programs such as the National Employment and Training System and the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training. 
Some of the major recommendations include: Continuing support and development of the tripartite network of the National Training Council and Industry Training Committees as the major means of involving all parties in assessment of industry training needs; growing involvement of industry in assisting technical and further education- TAFE-authorities to develop training relevant to meeting industry needs; development of the NEAT program to meet the need for further training and upgrading of existing employees in firms, as well as of the current focus of NEAT upon the unemployed; expansion of the National Training Council's sponsored group training schemes which help groups of small companies to join together to meet common training needs; continuing development of new trade training arrangements which increase quantity and quality of trade training; and support for Crawford and Williams recommendations aimed at improving the availability of manpower information, particularly information concerning skills shortages in industry. 
Each of the Mission's recommendations will be given careful consideration by the Government. Also, many of the areas covered by the report are matters to which the Government is giving continued attention and which are complemented by related studies commissioned by the Government, such as the Crawford Study Group on Structural Adjustment, the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education, Training and Employment, and the current Myers Committee of Inquiry into Technological Change in Australia. In preparing the Government's response to the Mission's recommendations, I have sought the views of my State Labour Minister colleagues and the Australian Education Council, as well as the National Training Council and its network of industry training committees. I commend the report to the House. I present the following paper: 
-I move: 
That the House, at its rising, adjourn until Tuesday, 6 November next, at 3 p.m. unless  Mr Speaker  shall fix an alternative day or hour of meeting to be notified by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The High Court of Australia Bill and the associated amendments to the Judiciary Act and the Evidence Act together represent a legislative scheme for effecting the transfer to the seat of government of the third arm of government established under the Constitution. Chapter III of the Constitution, which deals with the judicature, commences with section 71, which vests the judicial power of the Commonwealth in:   a Federal Supreme Court, to be called the High Court of Australia, and in such other federal courts as Parliament creates, and in such other courts as it invests with federal jurisdiction. The High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice, and so many other Justices, not less than two, as the Parliament prescribes. 
The Judiciary Act 1903, which provided for a High Court consisting of a Chief Justice and two other justices, included the provision:   on and after a date to be fixed by Proclamation the principal seat of the High Court shall be at the seat of Government. Until the date is fixed, the principal seat of the High Court shall be at such places as the Governor-General from time to time appoints. 
The other two arms of government, the legislature and the executive government, have for more than half a century now been located in the nation's capital. Passage of this legislation will enable them to be joined by the High Court and so complete the plan envisaged by the framers of our Constitution. 
Honourable members will, of course, be familiar with the progress on the building that is to accommodate the Court upon its transfer to the seat of government and will be aware that the official opening of that building has been set for May 1980. The movement to the seat of government of the High Court does not, however, mean that the Court will sever all its links with the States. Whilst the sittings of the Court will always be within the discretion of the Court itself, provision is made in the Bill enabling the Court to sit at such places within Australia and the external Territories as it sees fit. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has on a number of occasions publicly stated that it is his wish that the Court should periodically, as required, have sittings in at least the more distant 
States. The occasion for the transfer has been taken to accord to the High Court a measure of independence from departmental control that reflects the special position accorded the Court by the Constitution. The Bill accordingly makes provision for the Court to manage its own affairs and to be responsible for its building, its staff and its financial arrangements. 
The Bill contains an important provision relating to the constitution of the Court that embodies an undertaking given by the Attorney-General. Honourable members will be aware that, in accordance with his previously announced commitment to do so, the Attorney-General consulted with the Attorneys-General of the States prior to the filling of a vacancy in the High Court that occurred earlier this year. Clause 6 of the Bill contains the statutory confirmation of the Government's commitment to that principle of consultation. By requiring the process to be undertaken whenever a vacancy on the High Court occurs, this provision should do much to ensure that the Court continues to be truly national in character and fully equipped to discharge its constitutional functions as a federal Supreme Court. 
A further substantial change effected by the Bill flows from the transfer of the Registry of the Court to Canberra. In future there will be only the one Registry instead of, as there were previously, a principal Registry with district registries in each other State and Territory. There are, however, to be offices of the Registry in each State and the Northern Territory at which all documents associated with High Court litigation will be accepted for filing and transmission to the Registry in Canberra. So that practitioners will be inconvenienced as little as possible, provision is made that lodgment of a document at any office of the Registry is deemed to be lodgment in the Registry. Modern means of facsimile transmission and similar facilities will ensure that the new arrangements will cause no loss of efficiency in Registry procedures. 
Although the Court is to manage its own affairs in all respects, formal incorporation of the Court administration has been considered unnecessary. For administrative convenience the Court's powers are to be exercised through the officer heading its administration. For that purpose a statutory office entitled 'the  Clerk'  has been created and the legislation provides that he shall have 'the function of acting on behalf of, and assisting, the justices in the administration of the affairs of the High Court and has such other functions as are conferred upon him 
. or assigned to him by the Court'. The 

 Clerk will, subject to the directions of the Court, perform all the usual activities of an employer, including the engagement and control of staff and management of property under the control of the Court and the administration of the funds appropriated for the purposes of, or donated to, the Court. As with all staff employed by the Court, the  Clerk  will not be subject to the Public Service Act. He will be appointed by the Governor-General for such period, not exceeding five years, as is specified in the instrument of his appointment, although he will be eligible for re-appointment, subject to an age limitation, at the end of that period. 
In other respects the Bill makes little change to the existing provisions now found in the Judiciary Act and the High Court Procedure Act. The legislation has, however, been rationalised. Incorporated in this Bill are all the provisions dealing with the constitution and seat of the Court and administrative matters relating to the Court now to be found in the Judiciary Act and the High Court Procedure Act. The remaining provisions of the latter Act which are procedural in nature are to be incorporated in the Judiciary Act. In consequence, this Bill provides for the repeal of the High Court Procedure Act. Other changes are being made by this Bill but, in the main, they result from the application of modern drafting practices to the existing provision and it would be more convenient to discuss them at a later stage of the proceedings in respect of this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As indicated in the observations I made in connection with the High Court of Australia Bill, the primary purpose of this Bill is to transfer from the Judiciary Act the existing provisions dealing with the constitution and seat of the Court, its registries, places of sitting and the like and to incorporate the procedural provisions formerly found in the High Court Procedure Act. In addition to a number of drafting changes necessitated by the re-arrangement of the legislative scheme, the Bill also makes one amendment properly described as substantive. That amendment is effected by clause 7 of the Bill, which relates to section 23 of the Judiciary Act. 
Section 23 provides that, in the event of there being an equal division of the High Court upon the hearing of an appeal from a judge of the High Court or from a supreme court of a State, the decision appealed from is to be affirmed and that in any other case the opinion of the Chief Justice or the senior justice of the High Court present shall prevail. Accordingly, in appeals from all courts created by this Parliament, if there is an equal division of the High Court the opinion of the Chief Justice determines the outcome of the appeal. The effect of the amendment is to accord to judgments of the Federal Court, the Family Court and the supreme courts of the Territories, the same status as judgments of supreme courts of the States. 
The amendments of a drafting nature, to which I have referred above, are the proposed new sections 77a to 77v which are, by clause 13, to be added to the principal Act. To facilitate consideration of those amendments, I have prepared a table showing the equivalent provisions in the existing legislation. Copies of the table are available for the information of honourable members. Finally, the Bill contains a number of transitional provisions made necessary by the new legislative scheme for the High Court. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which completes the legislative scheme for the transfer of the High Court to Canberra, contains only two substantive provisions. The first relates to judicial notice of certain signatures and is made necessary by the changes in titles of the officers of the High Court. The second relates to Rules of Court made under the Evidence Act. This provision is designed to make it clear beyond doubt that Rules of Court made by the High Court under the Evidence Act are subject to disallowance by Parliament. The amendment arises from the expression by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal 
Affairs of its view that the present wording of section 7S of the Evidence Act- which was inserted by the Amending Act of 1978- leaves it open to doubt whether Parliament has the power to disallow Rules of Court so made. This is not a matter on which there should be any doubt. Accordingly, although the amendment does not directly flow from the requirements of the new legislative scheme, it was thought desirable to take the earliest possible opportunity to rectify the situation. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I speak in this debate on a matter of public importance on behalf of my colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  I think that by any fair assessment of the actions of my colleague since the Yarrabah community petitioned the Commonwealth in January this year, he has assiduously looked to the community's interests and has sought to negotiate a settlement with the Queensland Government. At the outset, I would like to draw to the attention of the House details of the actual request by the Yarrabah Council to my colleague. It is in these terms: The Yarrabah Council had been advised of the findings and recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in a report on Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders on Queensland reserves. The Council noted the concern expressed by that Senate Committee upon the effectiveness of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Act of 1978. In particular, the Yarrabah Council noted that, in the opinion of the Senate Committee, the effectiveness of that Act depended on the ability of the Commonwealth Government to negotiate land tenure for any community which may petition to come under the Act. 
The Yarrabah Council said that it would not be satisfied with the kind of leasehold land tenure which the Commonwealth had negotiated for the Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves. Consequently, the Council requested that the Minister- and I emphasise this point- try to negotiate with the Queensland Government on behalf of the Yarrabah Council a form of land tenure for Yarrabah Community Council similar to that legislated for Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory with the addition of timber rights. If, said the Council, the Minister was unable to persuade the State Government to grant the Yarrabah community comparable land tenure, then it respectfully requested him to prepare the legislation recommended by the Senate Standing Committee with the intention of purchasing Yarrabah reserve for the people of Yarrabah. The House will therefore see that at the heart of the request by the Yarrabah Council was a request that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs negotiate with the Queensland Government for land tenure. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has noted from a statement that I made to the House some time ago that the Commonwealth is committed, as it has been committed in the past, to obtaining for Aboriginal communities in Australia the right of selfmanagement, and with it a form of land tenure which in particular would secure for them their traditional, rights and the usage of their traditional lands. Of course it is well known that by an Act of this Parliament land rights by means of a particular form of land tenure were granted to Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory over which at that time the Commonwealth had exclusive constitutional control. However, as is also well known, the constitutional position between the Commonwealth and the States is rather different from that which held between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory. This came to light in particular at the time when the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities were seeking to have self-management of their own communities and of their own reserve lands free of domination by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement under the Queensland Aborigines legislation. It is well known to this House that both self-management and land tenure were achieved by the Commonwealth for the Aboriginal people of Aurukun and Mornington Island under an Act of the Queensland Parliament, but one which specifically entrenched the rights of the Aboriginal people in those two communities. I think a government which in the future sought to take away from those two communities the entrenched rights which they have achieved under that legislation would be a government which threw fear and caution to the wind. 
I am advised by my colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and also by one of the leaders of one of those communities to whom I have since spoken, that the situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island has settled down very well indeed under that legislation. They do truly have self-management under a local authority which is all Aboriginal, and which is elected by the people of those communities and under a law which gives them the right to control substantially their own destinies. Those communities have been granted a 50-year lease of the former reserves. This lease is renewable and in particular it secures for them the right to exercise the traditional usage of their land, which is their traditional land. The Yarrabah people have said that they do not want land tenure of the kind which was granted to the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities. They are seeking something different. My colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, has been to Yarrabah at least on two occasions- I believe on 6 April this year and again on 25 June this year. I am also advised that he plans to visit Yarrabah again in the near future, possibly during this month. The Minister has gone to Yarrabah to meet with the community Council to discuss their requests of him, so that he would be in a better position to negotiate in their interests with the Queensland Government. This is in fact what my colleague has done. He has had extensive discussions with the Queensland Minister,  Mr Porter  and with the Leader of the Liberal Party in Queensland and the  Deputy  Premier, the Honourable Llew Edwards. Both he and the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland have had discussions with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
I draw the attention of the House to a Press statement issued by my colleague on 1 1 September. He said that in Canberra that night he had met with the Council of the Yarrabah reserve and had had further discussions on their request that he negotiate with the Queensland Government for secure land tenure over the Yarrabah reserve and freedom to manage the reserve. On that occasion the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland was also in Canberra for discussions with the Prime Minister. He attended the meeting with the Yarrabah Council at the suggestion of the Prime Minister. Since then, extensive representations and negotiations have been made by my colleague, through  Dr Edwards  and  Mr Porter,  to the Queensland Government. Those negotiations are still on foot. They have not been completed. Therefore, it is premature for me to indicate in any way the result of those negotiations. However, I can inform the House and I can positively inform members of the Yarrabah Council, through this House, that the twin rights which my colleague is seeking to negotiate on their behalf, as requested by them in January, are to obtain self-management of their community and their reserve lands. Secondly, he is seeking to obtain land tenure over the reserve in the hands of the Yarrabah Council. I cannot foretell what the ultimate result of those negotiations may be. Perhaps my colleague can negotiate something different, as requested by the Yarrabah Council, from what was achieved on behalf of the communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island. But the important thing is that whatever is negotiated has to meet those fundamental desires for security of land tenure and self-management. 
We know from past experience that the Opposition would seek to confront the Queensland Government, which would be in contrast to our efforts to negotiate a solution. We adopt that stance because we recognise that Australia is a federation. The States have constitutional rights and jurisdiction within their own territories. The Commonwealth has been given by the Constitution certain jurisdiction, amongst which is a right to make laws with respect to the people of any race. Thankfully, no longer is there any limitation upon the Commonwealth's right to make laws with respect to Aboriginal and Islander people. It ought to be noted that the Opposition when in government for three years had the opportunity, if it had the will at the time, either to negotiate to take over the Aboriginal reserves of Queensland or to take them over by legislative action. The Whitlam Government of the day chose not to take that action. We also know that that Government thoroughly investigated the prospect of doing that, but having done so it withdrew from the prospect. So it is rather an empty argument that we hear today, as we have heard before, from the Opposition in demanding that this Government take over willy-nilly all the reserves of Queensland, both Aboriginal and Islander.  Senator Chaney  has acknowledged that the Yarrabah Council has been patient in waiting upon the negotiations that are presently being undertaken. On his behalf I thank the Yarrabah Council for its patience. I think its members appreciate that the best result in the end will be one which has been patiently negotiated to a satisfactory conclusion. I emphasise again that those negotiations are in train. They have not been completed. They will be pursued resolutely by my colleague in the interests of the Yarrabah people. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition mentioned the claim by the people of Yarrabah to be paid award rates for work they do. He asked why the Commonwealth has not acted under its Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act. I do not know how many times I have to inform the House of the action taken by this Government, but let me repeat that we as a government were directly involved in the legal proceedings taken by the Yarrabah people to obtain award rates. We briefed counsel and counsel appeared on behalf of the Commonwealth before the relevant arbitration court. The judge decided the matter under the Queensland law and held that under Queensland law these Aboriginals were entitled to be paid award rates for the work they did. It was not, therefore, necessary for him as a matter of law to consider the implications or application of the Commonwealth's Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act. 
It is a matter of law. The honourable gentleman is a lawyer. He would appreciate that the judge found as a matter of law that the Aboriginals were entitled to be paid under Queensland law. Therefore, there was no need to call in aid the Commonwealth Act. I assure the honourable gentleman that if this issue arises again and if there is any need for the Aboriginal people of Yarrabah or any other Queensland reserve to obtain the protection of the Commonwealth law this Government will see that they obtain that protection. I should also inform the House of - 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I July to 31 December 1978: 
26 weeks- 149 projects. 
52 weeks- 92 projects. 
1 January to 7 June 1979: 
26 weeks- 107 projects. 
52 weeks- 49 projects. 
-The Minister for Health has provided the following information: 
Commonwealth medical benefits have not been eliminated for medical services provided to young persons or anybody else in the community. 
Under the new health insurance arrangements introduced from 1 September this year, patients are responsible for meeting doctors' fees for services costing $20 or less per service. For services in excess of $20, Commonwealth medical benefits meet the whole of the excess up to the limit of the Schedule fee, leaving the patient to meet the first $20 and any charges in excess of the Schedule fee. Private health insurance coverage is available to cover medical costs not covered by Commonwealth medical benefits up to the level of the Schedule fee. 
However, in cases where a patient is not privately insured and is identified by a medical practitioner as being disadvantaged, treatment can be provided without payment on the part of the patient. This facility is available under an arrangement whereby the  doctor  bulk bills the Commonwealth Department of Health, and accepts 75 per cent of the Schedule fee for each service as full payment The doctor is not permitted to recover any additional moneys from the patient. 
Although the decision as to who is to be regarded as disadvantaged has been left to individual doctors, the Minister for Health has suggested to all doctors that persons on low incomes, including social security, unemployment, sickness or special beneficiaries could be included in this category. In this way unemployed young people have the opportunity to obtain medical care without charge. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government in fact provided the State of Queensland with a grant of $10m for the creation of employment opportunities in the Maryborough region following the cessation of sand-mining activities on Fraser Island. The grant was to be spent over 4 years: Sim in 1976-77 and $3m in each of the 3 successive years. It was a matter for the Queensland Government to determine the manner in which these funds would be allocated. Details of the total number of job opportunities created by the grant are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Gateshead/Windale CYSS has received six grants: 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Bill lapsed when the South Australian Parliament was dissolved for the recent election. I understand from my discussions with South Australian Ministers that the South Australian Government proposes to reintroduce the Bill with some amendments. 
and (5) See (3) above. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Bilateral discussions are being held between officers of the Commonwealth and the States to explore differences of interpretation of the existing arrangements with the States in relation to Aboriginal affairs and other issues, as a basis for consideration of the possible need to review those arrangements, which were negotiated some years ago. Should these talks lead to a decision to renegotiate any of the agreements, this will be announced at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Public Service Regulation 34 (b) which imposed a total prohibition on public comment by public servants upon any administrative action or upon the administration of any Department' (other than civic affairs in a Territory) was repealed on 2 June 1974. 
Following repeal of Regulation 34 (b) the Public Service Board issued a circular (No 1974/23 of 3 June 1974) explaining the implications of the change in the Regulation and circulating a new Sub-section (No 14/M) of the Public Service General Orders. Further guidance is contained in the 
Board's Guidelines on Official Conduct of Commonwealth Public Servants. 
The General Orders referred to have been relied upon by the Public Service Board and by departments in counselling individual staff members who have commented publicly on certain issues within the Government 's control. 
and (5) The Public Service Board had advised that to its knowledge, the only case where charges have been laid under the disciplinary provisions of the Public Service Act relating to public comment by an officer of the Service since the repeal of Regulation 34 (b), involved  Mr William  Frederick Toomer. The report of the inquiry into that case was tabled in the Parliament on 8 November 1 977. 
to ( 10) These questions seek in effect a legal interpretation based on hypothetical cases couched in very general terms. The Public Service Board is unable to answer categorically but the answer to questions (4) and (5) indicates the infrequency of action under the relevant sections of the Public Service Act. The Board 's views on the rights of public servants to comment on public issues are set out in Chapter 4 of the Guidelines on Official Conduct of Commonwealth Public Servants. Chapter 5 which deals with political and industrial participation by public servants is also relevant. Much of this material is concerned with issues relating to conventions and propriety rather than to law. Copies of the Board's Guidelines nave been lodged with the Parliamentary Library. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Following an increase over recent years in invalidity retirement rates, the Public Service Board conducted a study in 1978 which indicated that the increase is related to a number of factors, including the changing age structure of the Service, the number of ex-servicemen approaching retirement, changing community attitudes towards health and arrangements for age and invalidity retirement As part of a program to manage the incidence of invalidity retirements from the Service, the Board, in conjunction with the Department of Health, the Department of Finance and the Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office, has now completed an examination of procedures for reviewing an officer's fitness for duty. As a result of that review, it is proposed to introduce some changes to current procedures to provide departments, examining Commonwealth medical officers and the Board with additional information to assist in determining an officer's fitness for duty and whether invalidity retirement or other action, such as redeployment, is appropriate. Consultations on the new procedures are being held with peak councils of staff organisations. Details of the new procedures are contained on page 50 of the Public Service Board's Annual Report for 1979, which was tabled on 12 September. 
and (3) Decisions to retire officers from the Service on invalidity grounds are taken by the Public Service Board's Regional Directors in each State and Territory following receipt of a report from the relevant officer 's department and a medical examination conducted by a Commonwealth Medical Officer. The Public Service Board has advised me that it is not aware of any reports that some doctors may have falsified documents relating to invalidity retirements nor is it aware of any other evidence of improper practices in respect of invalidity retirements. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Attorney-General relating to the appointment of the first director of the Institute of Family Studies. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) The resolutions to which the honourable member refers would appear to be those adopted by the 18th Federal Assembly of the Australian Medical Association, at its meeting on 4-6 June 1979.I have been advised that they are as follows: 
That, except in special circumstances, preference in employment be given to medical graduates registered in Australia and who are normally resident in Australia ', and That preference in employment be given to medical graduates who are members of the Australian Medical Association. ' 
These resolutions do not contravene the Commonwealth's anti-discrimination legislation (the Racial Discrimination Act 1975). 
Whether State legislation has any application, is not a matter for me to comment on. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Consultations with States are continuing in the Meetings of Ministers on Human Rights and at officer level, with a view to ratification by Australia of the Covenant by the end of the year. The following ratifications and accessions to the Covenant should be added to the list printed in the answer to Question No. 1 20 given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. I will be taking up the matter of an appropriate viewing time and location for screening with the presiding officers. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975,I present the annual report of the Administrative Review Council 1979. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the fifth annual report of the National Training Council 1 978. 
For the information of honourable members, I present papers and summary of discussions on the Sixth International Trade Law Seminar held in Canberra in April 1979. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to implement in substance the recommendations contained in the Interim Report of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into 
Drugs. In the light of this interim report, the Government has concluded that the Australian Federal Police should be given all necessary powers for narcotics inquiries. Parliament recently conferred the power on officers of Customs to use listening devices under warrant of a judge. This power now needs to be transferred to members of the Australian Federal Police subject to the same safeguards and limits as now apply in relation to officers of Customs. This Bill therefore provides for amendments to the Customs Act to empower members of the Australian Federal Police, instead of officers of Customs, to use, under the warrant of a judge, listening devices in respect of narcotics offences. 
The Government has given considerable thought to the safeguards and limitations to apply to the granting and exercise of the powers to be conferred by this amendment on members of the Australian Federal Police. These safeguards and limitations will be: A judge of the Federal Court or a Supreme Court must be satisfied by information on oath as to the justification for issue of a warrant; information obtained by use of the device may only be used for narcotics inquiries; there is a prohibition on communication except in strictly limited circumstances; these concern very serious criminal offences and security matters; the Commissioner will be required to report to the Minister not only on the use made of the information but also whether, and if so to whom, the information is communicated; the Minister may, under subsection 13 (6) of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979, call for a report of the Commissioner on the performance of the functions of the Australian Federal Police in so far as use of listening devices is involved. The Bill also amends the provisions enacted earlier this year for recovery of pecuniary penalties to enable a member of the Australian Federal Police, as well as an officer of Customs, to give expert evidence in the relevant proceedings. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to implement in substance the recommendations contained in the Interim Report of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs. In the light of this interim report, the Government has concluded that the Australian Federal Police should be given all necessary powers for narcotics inquiries. Parliament recently conferred the power on officers of Customs to intercept telecommunications and inspect telegrams under warrant of a judge. This power now needs to be transferred to members of the Australian Federal Police subject to the same safeguards and limits- as now apply in relation to officers of Customs. This Bill therefore provides for amendments to the Telecommunications (Interception) Act to empower members of the Australian Federal Police, instead of officers of Customs, to intercept telecommunications and inspect telegrams, under the warrant of a judge, for the purposes of investigations in respect of narcotics offences. 
The Government has given considerable thought to the safeguards and limitations to apply to the granting and exercise of the powers to be conferred by this amendment on members of the Australian Federal Police. These safeguards and limitations will be as follows: A judge of the Federal Court or a supreme court must be satisfied by information on oath as to the justification for issue of a warrant; information obtained by the interception or inspection may only be used for narcotics inquiries; there is a prohibition on communication except in strictly limited circumstances; these concern very serious criminal offences and security matters; the Commissioner will be required to report to the Minister not only on the use made of the information but also whether, and if so to whom, the information is communicated; and the Minister may, under section 13 (6) of the Australian Federal 
Police Act 1979 call for a report of the Commissioner on the performance of the functions of the Australian Federal Police in so far as the interception of telecommunications and inspections of telegrams is involved. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Motion ( by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to speak to the motion. I am quite sure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  realises that the date that he proposes- 7 December- is quite unacceptable to the Government. He also knows that it is not expected that the House will be sitting on that day. The House will realise that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has put forward a quite spurious proposal. It is also apparent that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is intent upon trying to delay or to disrupt the proceedings of the Bills which I am now introducing. As has been pointed out by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  the procedure which has been adopted by me and the question which has been put by you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are completely in accordance with the normal forms of the House. The adjournment will proceed as usual, providing an interim period when the Opposition can consider its stand on the Bill. It is, of course, at liberty then to move what it likes in respect of the Bill. As I have pointed out, the proposed date for the adjournment of this Bill- 7 December- is quite unacceptable to the Government. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second rime. 
In consequence of the Government's decision to implement in substance the recommendations contained in the interim report of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs and to give the Australian Federal Police all necessary powers for narcotics inquiries, certain consequential amendments need to be made to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1979. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1979 provides that the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation or an officer authorised by him may communicate information relating to narcotics offences to officers of Customs and information relating to serious criminal offences to officers of police. 
This Bill amends the principal Act to provide that information relating to narcotics offences may be communicated only to members or special members of the Australian Federal Police. For information relating to serious criminal offences the Bill replaces the reference to the Commonwealth Police Force with a reference to the Australian Federal Police. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 - Mr Speaker, this afternoon when this matter was raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  I supported you in your statement that you intended to examine the application of the sub judice rule to the motion moved by him. I rise on this occasion to support you in the ruling you have made. If I may say so, I think it is a proper application of the sub judice rule, both in the public interest and in the interests of this Parliament and, furthermore, in the interests of justice as it is administered in the courts of this country. In contrast with what I recall the honourable gentleman saying this morning, he now wants to have this judicial inquiry in order to examine the responsibility and accountability of any Minister- I say 'any Minister' because none is specified by the honourable gentleman- in relation to the matters arising in what is known as the Greek conspiracy case and in particular in the committal proceedings that are now being heard before a police magistrate. That was not said this morning, but it is said now. It may well be that that is what was at the back of the honourable gentleman's mind when he framed this motion with respect to paragraph (a), which states: 
The circumstances relating to the use by the Commonwealth Police of listening devices and the interception of telephone conversations; 
Paragraph (b) states: 
The propriety of persons who authorise the use of such devices and interception procedures . . . 
Obviously it is a very wide net that is sought to be cast by the terms of the motion. The central fact is, as you observed this morning,  Mr Speaker,  that the purpose of the judicial inquiry sought to be appointed was 'to inquire into and report upon the obtaining of the evidence in relation to the prosecution in what is known as the Greek conspiracy case', and several particulars were given. Quite clearly, the motion deals directly with a matter before the courts, and in this case a matter before the criminal courts. A reading of Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice  will tell the House that it is with respect to criminal proceedings in particular that the sub judice rule is so stringently applied by a Westminster parliament, and for a very good reason. While a criminal matter is before the court, the Parliament does not wish to debate any such matter in a way that will prejudice the position of any party before that court. In this case the police inspector, who was giving evidence with regard to the installation of listening devices, is a person involved in the proceedings with respect to whom a ruling could be made either adverse or beneficial to him. Therefore, if debate is allowed in this House with respect to any of the evidence given by the inspector, it can bear upon, and will bear upon, the proceedings in that court. Moreover, it will bear directly upon the weight to be given to the evidence of Inspector Thomas. 
I think I should give the House some basic facts concerning this matter and when they are outlined the House will see very clearly that the sub judice rule has been properly applied by you,  Mr Speaker.  On 12 November 1979, Inspector Thomas of the Australian Federal Police admitted in evidence that he had caused the installation of listening devices at the premises of two defendants. Sub-section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the New South Wales Listening Devices Act makes it an offence to use a listening device to hear, record or listen to a private conversation. It is not an offence, however, if the device is used in accordance with an authorisation given by the Minister of the Commonwealth administering a Commonwealth Act relating to the Commonwealth Police Force. In other words, the authority derives from the provisions of New South Wales legislation under which the Commonwealth Minister is authorised to act. 
On behalf of the Government, I, as would be judged from what I have said earlier today and this evening, oppose this motion. The Government accepts your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  because it believes that it is correct and that you have correctly applied the ruling in a situation which is well recognised both in the House of Commons and in this House. To summarise the practice of this House, I repeat some of the words which you used earlier in the day in making your ruling. This House, having no Standing Order of its own relating specifically to sub judice matters, is guided by the practice of the House of Commons. The practice of this House may be stated- I will not go through all the particulars of the application of the sub judice rule but only where it is relevant- in the following terms: firstly, the application of the sub judice is subject always to the discretion of the Chair and the right of the House to legislate on any matter but, as to the latter, that is not the situation before the House. The next- and this is a most important statement of practice- is that matters awaiting or under adjudication in all courts exercising criminal jurisdiction shall not be referred to in motions, debate or questions from the moment a charge is made. 
Quite clearly, from the terms of the motion itself and from what has been said on behalf of the Opposition in debate, the matter into which a judicial inquiry is sought to be held is a matter awaiting or under adjudication or concerning directly a matter awaiting or under adjudication in a court exercising criminal jurisdiction. It goes to evidence which is before that court of criminal jurisdiction, the admissibility of the evidence, and the lawfulness of the conduct of the witness giving the evidence. One of the points that has been constantly asserted on behalf of the Opposition is that there has been a breach of the law by a particular witness. That is an assertion. It is also an assumption. It is not a matter established as a matter of law. Before there can be a breach of the law - 
I submit that this is an important point. It is one that has been constantly referred to by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in particular both in support of this motion to dissent from your ruling and in his argument that the sub judice rule should not be applied. An example was sought to be given by reference to an editorial which stated that there had been a breach of the law in evidence given in criminal proceedings. It has been stated in argument that the newspaper in which that editorial appeared could not be the subject of any proceedings. That, of course, is an assumption built upon an assumption. It may well be,  Mr Speaker,  that an editorial of that kind, made in the course of criminal proceedings, could and would be the subject of contempt proceedings. I state those matters in argument in order to establish that the assertions made by the Opposition are not necessarily correct and therefore ought not to be relied upon by this House to support a dissent from your ruling. 
I have referred to two of the particular rules of practice by this House. Other particular rules of practice refer to matters awaiting or under adjudication in a civil court. That is not the case here. Another rule is that current matters before a royal commission shall not be referred to. That is not the case here. Then there is sought to be used in aid by the Opposition in dissenting from your ruling the argument that this matter is an issue of national importance. I would argue that this is a confusion of rules of practice. In this situation the primary rule of practice is the one to which I have already referred, that is that matters awaiting or under adjudication in all courts exercising criminal jurisdiction shall not be referred to in motions, debate or questions from the moment a charge is made. The example which you gave,  Mr Speaker,  earlier this day with regard to an issue of national importance such as the national economy, public order and the essentials of life- by way of example I recall that you referred to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- which matters may be referred to unless such references would substitute a real and substantial danger of prejudice to the proceedings. I think the House can immediately see the primacy of that rule relating to criminal jurisdiction in contrast to the earlier rule of practice. It is one which is clearly set out in Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice  and, as I have said, is one which is followed by the House of Commons. 
Because this House does not have any standing order of its own relating to the sub judice rule, the practice of this House is to follow the practice of the House of Commons. I submit that nothing that has been said by either the mover or the seconder of this dissent motion detracts from the correctness of your statement of the principles of the sub judice rule.  Mr Speaker,  if one thing struck me more than any other in your statement, it was when you said that the criminal court is a judicial inquiry into the matters which are the subject of the Opposition's motion. Therefore what the Opposition is really seeking to do is to establish a parallel judicial inquiry into the very matters which are now before a court of criminal jurisdiction. It is for those reasons, shortly stated, that the Government supports your ruling and opposes this motion of dissent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4328  (Hansard, 6  November 1979). 
Science and the Environment: Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption (Question No. 4329) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) See answer to Question No. 4328  (Hansard, 6  November 1979, page 2657). 
The honourable gentleman asks for a number of details which I do not have at hand. I will refer the question to my colleague the Attorney-General and see that the appropriate details are provided to the honourable gentleman. However, it is a fact that the Attorney-General granted a pardon to  Mr Nakis.  I can assure the House that the granting of that pardon was proper and within the proper exercise of the Attorney-General 's authority. 

 - Mr Speaker, you may agree with me that the matter is not sub judice. Those proceedings have been completed. As to the costs, as the honourable gentleman knows, the Commonwealth has given a certain undertaking to defendants in those proceedings. An award of costs was made against the complainant. One of the conditions of granting costs to the defendants was that the order for costs against  Mr Sankey  should be pursued. I will refer the honourable gentleman's question to the Attorney-General and provide further details to him. 
I wish to clarify an answer that I gave earlier to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition concerning the granting of a pardon to a witness in the Greek conspiracy case. As I gave the answer, I think I was technically incorrect in referring to the pardon being granted by the Attorney-General. In fact the position is that no special power of pardon is vested in the Attorney-General in relation to offences under the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act. The Governor-General, on the recommendation of a Minister- and that Minister is usually the Attorney-General- has the power to pardon any non-capital offence against a law of the Commonwealth. It was in respect of the exercise of that power by the Attorney-General that the Governor-General issued a pardon. 
-I will obtain the details of the other matters raised. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3)1 have seen press reports to this effect. 
The position is not as stated. Where Aboriginal groups have not completed incorporation procedures, grants are sometimes made through trustees, but I have no evidence that this procedure is 'wasteful '. Consideration is being given to measures to make compliance with the conditions of all grams (not only those paid through trustees) legally enforceable. The Department 's local programming conferences provide useful opportunities for Aboriginals to define their own needs and priorities. Officers do not 'go on a splurge to balance books each 3 months to ensure continued funding. ' 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No; see reply to Question No. 4667  (Hansard,  18 October 1979, page 2289). 
Yes. 
See answer to Question No. 4667; my Department has provided funds for major repairs. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No.  His  employment was terminated by the Yulngu Association on 20 March 1 979. The circumstances leading to the decision to terminate his employment are at present the subject of court proceedings in the Northern Territory. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to clarify an answer that I gave yesterday to the honourable member for Hunter concerning costs in the committal proceedings in the case of Sankey against Whitlam. Whilst some orders for costs have been made in the course of those proceedings, the question whether costs should be awarded against the informant,  Mr Sankey,  in favour of the defendants in respect of the proceedings generally was argued on 4 October 1979. The magistrate has reserved his decision on the question and it is expected that the reserved decision will be given on 17 December 1979. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964 I present the annual report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies 1 978-79. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of Aboriginal Hostels Ltd 1 978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Law Reform Commission on privacy and the census. 

 - Mr Speaker, I just want to clarify the position and to confirm that I did accept the motion that was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  as a motion of censure of the Government. 
The Government has no hesitation in rejecting this motion. It seems quite clear that the Opposition is trying to rehash matters that it has already raised in this House and in the Senate. I remind the House that within the last week or so this House rejected a censure motion against my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and that last week the Senate rejected a censure motion against my colleague the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle). 
At the outset let me refer to the question of ministerial responsibility. In this respect I note that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that on the general principle of the doctrine of ministerial responsibility his views are a matter of public record and he refers to his own  Sir Robert  Garran oration of 14 November 1977, which is a detailed consideration and exposition of the principle of ministerial responsibility. Having rejected certain notions that have been put forward by a former adviser to the Whitlam Administration, the Prime Minister said: 
Let me emphasize the point further. It is certainly true that ministers cannot be aware of everything that occurs in their departments. They ought to be aware of all the major matters and therefore can be clearly and directly responsible for them. But if a major blunder occurred in a department, of real importance to Australia, and if the minister were unaware of it, that minister should accept responsibility for the mistakes of his department and offer to resign. It is for the prime minister to accept or reject that resignation. In the convention it is then open to the parliament by debate, by questioning and by censure to test whether or not the government or the particular minister concerned still has the support of the parliament. 
I emphasise that this House recently refused to accept a censure motion against my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I might say that it quite properly rejected that censure motion. The Senate also rejected a censure motion against the Minister for Social Security. Again, I emphasise that the Senate quite properly rejected that censure motion. 
Having listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in what was a rather turgid and laboured speech, it was quite obvious that his argument lacked sincerity of approach. The strength of the attack may be judged by the audience that stayed to listen to it. I noticed that even some members of the Opposition vacated the chamber, and certainly the Press Gallery was not interested in the attack that the Leader of the Opposition was mounting. This motion of censure of the Government is as miscalculated as the two censure motions of my ministerial colleagues. I am quite sure that the Leader of the Opposition, launched this censure motion, being sensitive to what has been said about him by the Combe report, that is, the report of David Combe, the secretary of the Australian Labor Party. The Australian Labor Party strategy papers are most revealing in what they say of the Labor Party's standing in the community, its electoral strategy leading up to 1980 and the electoral standing of the Leader of the Opposition. The strategy of the Labor Party quite apparently advises Labor spokesmen to use every media opportunity for cynical political pointscoring, to put party propaganda before public interest. 
That this House censures the Government for abusing the proper standards of ministerial responsibility. 
I cannot see how some papers alleged to belong to a political party and which refer to the Leader of the Opposition can be enjoined in a defence by the Leader of the House  (Mr Viner)  of the thrust of his argument in response to the motion which is concerned with ministerial responsibility in respect of a particular item which is before the House. 
I thank you for your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  and I also thank the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  for verifying the authenticity of the document to which I am referring. It is quite evident that Labor Party strategy is not only to put party propaganda before public interest but also to do so by way of a catalogue of catchy phrases to be used at every opportunity; in other words, prepackaged political rhetoric. We have seen a pretty paltry attempt at that today by the Leader of the Opposition. It is also noteworthy that the Combe strategy paper refers to the swinging voters, the electors of Australia, as being ignorant, ill-informed and selfish. From the content of the speeches of the Leader of the Opposition and of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  it is quite clear that they accept that view of the electors of Australia. But not only that, the Combe strategy paper says this of the electoral image of the Leader of the Opposition: 
. they (the swinging voter) will be only vaguely interested in voting for Bill Hayden if, and only if, they can get some kind of line on him, preferably one involving some sense of hope for Australia's future. Giving Bill Hayden some kind of profile in the minds of these people, therefore, is the only communications objective that offers the slightest hope of success. 

 - Mr Speaker, I was quoting directly from the document. I believe that this House will appreciate that it was a rather desperate attempt by the Leader of the Opposition, in launching this censure motion, to lift his profile. I venture to suggest that anybody listening would not really have understood what the point of his attack was. I certainly did not and I am sure that every other honourable member on this side of the House did not appreciate the line of the attack of the Leader of the Opposition. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition got himself so tangled up in what he was trying to say that he could not even complete his speech or make any points. Quite properly, my colleague, the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott),  took umbrage at some of the things that were being said from the Opposition side. I ask members of the Opposition to answer this simple question: Is their Leader sensitive to criticism of his leadership by his own party? 
No answer was the stern reply. We on the Government side of the House know what the answer is. 
In the Senate, my colleagues the Minister for Social Security and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  have answered a barrage of questions levelled at them in respect of court proceedings taken against persons alleged to have defrauded the social security benefit system. They have been open and frank in their answers, while they have been properly careful not to contravene the sub judice rule. We had a debate about the sub judice rule last week and,  Mr 
Speaker, you quite properly ruled in that situation. It behoves us in this debate and throughout the course of this week not to transgress that rule by trying to get behind it through the back door because it is a very important rule in the administration of justice that anything concerning criminal prosecutions that are before the court and that would in any way taint or hinder the administration of justice should not be debated in this House. 
I take, for example, the position adopted by my colleague, the Minister for Social Security. She quite properly pointed out that the answer she gave on the question of the tapping of telephones by the Australian Federal Police was on the basis of advice given to her. She was open and frank with the Senate as to the content of that advice and the way in which it came into her hands. As she pointed out- this is recorded at page 2238 of the Senate  Hansard-  she was reading from a brief from the Commonwealth Police which was given to the then Minister responsible for the Commonwealth Police. The Minister for Social Security is not the Minister responsible for the Australian Federal Police. Nothing that has been said in the Senate or in this debate can in any way accuse that Minister of not exercising proper standards of ministerial responsibility, either in regard to that matter or in regard to the administration of her own Department, because her Department was the client department of the Federal Police who were quite properly brought in to investigate allegations of defrauding the public revenue. 
In all this debate, I have not heard one word from the Opposition about the propriety of the Government of the day being concerned that there should not be any defrauding, any abuse of the public revenue. Why should not the Department of Social Security, which has responsibility for the administration of the Social Services Act, inquire into allegations of fraud or abuse under the Act. Quite properly, the Minister for Social Security has seen to it that inquiries, as appropriate, were made. I have not heard from the Opposition any support for the propriety of the Commonwealth Police carrying out investigations once matters were put into their hands by the client department, the Department of Social Security. I have not heard from the Opposition about the propriety of the Attorney-General of the day, through his law officers, giving advice where appropriate to either the Australian Federal Police or the Department of Social Security in a matter of this kind. I think that the closest examination of all that has happened will show that all Ministers have acted with the propriety that their responsibility calls for. It is not unknown in criminal matters for a reward to be considered for a witness or an informant. It is not unknown for the Attorney-General to offer immunity from prosecution for a witness - 
I was making the point that it is not unusual for the Attorney-General, whether he be the Attorney-General for the Commonwealth or for any State, to offer immunity from prosecution to a witness whose evidence may incriminate that person. In this case, the Attorney-General quite properly granted immunity to a key prosecution witness. That immunity having been granted, it appeared that private prosecutions were to be or had been launched against the witness for the apparent purpose of circumventing the immunity which had been granted by the Attorney-General. Therefore, to give that Crown witness, a key witness in the proceedings, complete immunity so that he was safe to give evidence for the Crown, the Attorney-General recommended to the Governor-General that a pardon be granted. The Governor-General, acting on the advice of the Attorney-General, granted the pardon. The whole point of the pardon was to give complete immunity to that key witness. Much has been said in this House and in the Senate concerning the evidence of Detective Inspector Thomas. I noted that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that Detective Thomas had admitted three acts of illegal phone tapping. I wish to contradict that statement. 
-I am certainly concerned not to transgress that rule, as I have said before, but I thought it important in this debate to contradict a statement by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. I will not name anybody. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that a witness admitted to three illegal acts of tapping telephones. That admission has not been made. The point that I made before is that whether the conduct of a police witness was unlawful is itself a matter of law to be determined by a court in appropriate legal proceedings and not by way of debate in this House. That is a fundamental point made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in this debate by which he seeks to allege that the Attorney-General and the Minister responsible for the Australian Federal Police have been in dereliction of their responsibilities as Ministers. 
The Opposition has sought to accuse the Government of a lack of a proper sense of ministerial responsibility because of the activities of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It is not so very long since we debated at length in this House and in the Senate- if I recall correctly we debated for over 50 hours- legislation introduced by the Government to replace earlier legislation establishing ASIO, to establish the responsibility between the Director-General of ASIO and the Attorney-General and to give the Parliament an appropriate measure of control over the activities of ASIO. It was this Government which substantially accepted the report of  Mr Justice  Hope from an inquiry into ASIO instituted by the former Government. That cannot in any way be a dereliction of duty but rather in the strongest possible way the carrying out of the responsibility of the Government towards ASIO in the face of the recommendations by  Mr Justice  Hope. That legislation which has now passed the Parliament enacts the most modern comprehensive legislation dealing with the security forces of any country. It provides for an extensive measure of ministerial and parliamentary control of the activities of ASIO. I simply point out that the legislation requires the Director-General to report periodically to the Leader of the Opposition so that there may be a truly bipartisan approach to the activities of ASIO. 
The Opposition seeks to redebate and recen.sure the Government over the handling of the Williams report into the Narcotics Bureau. I point out to this House that the report available to this stage is an interim report. The final report is not yet available but the Government thought that the recommendations in the interim report were so important that it should act immediately to do what the Williams report recommended; and that was to transfer the responsibilities of law enforcement within the Narcotics Bureau to the Australian Federal Police. That was reported to this House. It was debated by this House. Now, in consequence of the Government's accepting the Williams recommendations, legislation has been introduced to transfer to the Australian Federal Police the powers in relation to telephone interception previously held by the Narcotics Bureau. In all respects this Government acted appropriately and promptly to see that the recommendations of that interim report were introduced. I also point out that  Mr Justice  Williams at first considered that the interim report should be withheld- that is, kept confidential- until such time as his final report was introduced. But the Government in consultation with  Mr Justice  Williams thought it appropriate that we should act on it with promptness before the final report was introduced. 
As I said before, the way in which this motion was introduced by the Leader of the Opposition, labouring as he was to make his points firstly to try to outline what is ministerial responsibility, then to give some particulars of dereliction of duty by Ministers, has not carried any weight whatsoever either with this House or, I suggest, with the listening public. We have already had two censure motions of two of the Ministers involved. Neither of those censure motions was accepted. We have had extensive debate in this House on the transfer of powers of the Narcotics Bureau to the Australian Federal Police. We have had extensive debate on the ASIO legislation. We will be having further debate on Bills already introduced into the House to transfer to the Australian Federal Police the power to intercept telephone communications under warrant which was previously held by the Narcotics Bureau. It seems to me, therefore, that there is no reason whatsoever why this Parliament should accept this censure motion. It is more than apparent that on the third last day of the Budget sittings of this House the Opposition is trying to dredge up something so that it can continue to stir the pot rather than get down to the serious matter of debating serious issues before the Parliament. Therefore, I have no hesitation on behalf of the Government in rejecting this motion. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Pursuant to section 43 (5) of the Criminology Research Act 1971 I present the annual report of the Criminology Research Council 1979. 
Pursuant to section 115 of the Family Law Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Family Law Council 1 979. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to clarify the intention of some sections of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. The Bill also will give effect to the Government's decision to grant financial assistance in certain cases, to people who wish to be represented at future hearings before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  stated on 27 April this year, the amendments presented in this Bill are of an administrative nature and in no way affect the general principles embodied in the principal Act. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Minister announced in the Senate on 20 March of this year that an agreement in principle had been reached between the Government of the Northern Territory, the Federal Government and the Aboriginal land councils which would facilitate the registration of Aboriginal land titles. The agreement involved the amendment of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act in order that roads over which the public had a right of way would not need to be specifically identified in a deed of grant prior to the registration of that deed. Identification of such roads could take place subsequent to registration. It was also made clear at that time that the proposed legislative solution was subject to the consent of the land councils concerned. Advice was received from the Northern Land Council that it had yet to complete consultations with the relevant communities and as a consequence was not in a position to consent to the proposed amendments to the legislation. Further consultations between land councils, governments and Aboriginals have taken place, and I understand the Minister hopes to be in a position to move further amendments to the Act in the autumn session. 
As I indicated earlier, the passage of this Bill will give effect to the  Government's  decision announced on 13 February 1979 to grant, in certain cases, financial assistance to individuals, groups, associations or corporate bodies wishing to be represented before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner at land claim hearings. The Government's decision followed representations from some non-Aboriginal groups that through financial hardship, they were unable to obtain adequate legal counsel to present their case at land claim hearings. The criteria upon which financial assistance will be provided is that the AttorneyGeneral be satisfied that in all the circumstances, including the possibility of hardship to the applicant, it is reasonable that the application be approved. The principal Act requires the Minister to make a decision with respect to any recommendation by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner concerning a land claim.  Mr Justice  Toohey, the present Commissioner, has expressed the view that the Minister has the power to accept all or part of a Land Commissioner's recommendation. However, a legal opinion obtained by the Commonwealth has cast some doubt on whether he does have this power under the Act as it now stands. This Bill will make it clear that the Minister does have the power to accept all or part of a recommendation. 
Provisions are made in this Bill to allow the Minister to utilise the funds of the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account in order to meet additional administrative needs of the land councils. According to the provisions of the principal Act, administrative expenses of the land councils are to be met from 40 per cent of the royalty payments paid to the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account. The royalty payments currently flowing from mining on Aboriginal land have proven to be insufficient to meet the administrative expenses of the land councils. This amending legislation gives the Minister power to use other available funds in the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account to meet additional administrative expenses until such time as adequate royalty payments begin to flow from mining operations on Aboriginal land. By an interim arrangement pending the passage of this amendment, special payments were made from Commonwealth appropriations to land councils to enable them to meet their administrative expenses. This Bill will enable the Commonwealth to recoup these payments from the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account. However, a further amendment passed by the Senate ensures that two special payments made in 1978-79 to land councils under the Ranger Agreement to meet negotiation expenses and to fund responsibilities arising from the Agreement are not required to be repaid to Consolidated Revenue. The Bill also validates certain payments made to land councils, and as personal loans, which the Auditor-General mentioned in his report. It is also proposed that the provision whereby loans were made available from the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund should continue to apply in respect of the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account. This amendment will ensure that loans can be made available to Aboriginals living in the Northern Territory from the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account. 
The principal Act lays down the procedures under which the Governor-General may declare &gt;that the national interest requires that mining should occur on Aboriginal land without the consent of the traditional Aboriginal owners. This amendment will ensure that a national interest proclamation shall be deemed to have been disapproved if it has not been debated within 15 sitting days of notice being given, which brings it into line with the provisions in similar legislation. 
Finally, two other minor amendments are provided for in this Bill. The first corrects a simple error in the calculation of the size of the Ranger project area subsequent to the adjustment to the southern boundary in accordance with the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry recommendation. The area of the Ranger project area has, as a result of the Government's acceptance of that recommendation, been reduced from 83 square kilometres to 79 square kilometres. The second deletes an incorrect reference to sub-section 5 (a) in section 63 (6) of the principal Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 established new machinery for review on the merits of administrative decisions. It was supported on both sides of the Parliament. The Act established two important new bodies, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the Administrative Review Council. The purpose of the present Bill is to make some changes to the constitution of the Council and improvements to the functioning of the Tribunal. The Tribunal came into operation on 1 July 1976, with jurisdiction to review decisions made under a number of Acts of the Parliament and ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory. That jurisdiction is being progressively extended, in accordance with the Government 's policy in this area. 
The Administrative Review Council, which is established under Part V of the Act, first met on 15 December 1976. The Council's functions relate to the examination of decision-making processes and administrative review mechanisms, and the making of recommendations on the need for changes. The Council has already produced three very valuable annual reports which have been tabled in the Parliament and are available to honourable members. The third annual report summarises recommendations the Council has made to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  for amendment of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975. 
The amendments to be made by the Bill principally stem from recommendations made by the Council. They deal with the constitution of the Council itself, the powers of the Tribunal and the Federal Court of Australia in relation to stay orders, and machinery matters relating to time limits and staff of the Tribunal. I would add that the Government has not yet completed its consideration of all the recommendations of the Council. The Attorney-General indicated in another place that a number of the recommendations require careful study. The Council was originally conceived as an expert body of lawyers and administrators. Section 50 of the Act accordingly provides that the qualifications for Council membership are extensive experience in public administration or extensive knowledge of administrative law. It has become increasingly apparent, however, that the Council would be even better equipped to discharge its functions if it had access to expertise in areas outside the confines of law and public administration as such. 
Clause 1 1 of the Bill therefore extends the qualifications for membership of the Council to include extensive experience at a high level in industry, commerce, industrial relations, the practice of a profession or the service of a government or an authority of a government, and extensive knowledge of public administration. As a result of this extension of the qualifications for appointment, the Council will be able to reflect the views and experience of a broader cross-section of the community. 
The Act at present requires the  President  of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, who is an ex officio member of the Administrative Review Council, to preside at meetings of the Council. The Council believes, and the Government agrees, that this situation can give rise to potential conflict of duty where the Council is considering and reporting on matters that might be the subject of proceedings in the Tribunal. Clauses 10 and 12 of the Bill have therefore been included to enable a member of the Council other than the  President  of the Tribunal to be appointed Council  Chairman.  The Tribunal  President  will remain a member of the Council, but it will be easier for him to withdraw from the Council 's deliberations in appropriate cases, and he will no longer need to be the channel of communication between the Council and the Government. 
I turn now to a number of amendments relating to the making of stay orders. For review procedures to be effective, it is sometimes desirable that a decision the subject of a review application should be suspended or stayed pending the outcome of the application. Section 41 of the Act makes provision for this to be done. This provision enables, for example, a deportee to obtain a stay of deportation while he applies to the Tribunal for a review of the deportation order. However, experience has shown that the powers available to the Tribunal under section 41 are not sufficiently flexible. Thus, in the case of a deportation order, the Tribunal's power is limited to ordering suspension or stay of the whole of that order. The result is that the order will cease to be 'in force'. Once this is done there is no statutory basis, under the Migration Act 1 958, to detain the deportee. Clauses 6 and 14 of the Bill have therefore been included to help overcome problems of this kind. However, they will not enable the Tribunal to review or suspend the detention of the deportee pursuant to section 39 of the Migration Act. Clause 6 of the Bill will also give the Tribunal much greater flexibility in framing a suspension or stay order. The Tribunal will have power to suspend or stay part of a decision, not just the whole of the decision, to make an order subject to conditions, and to limit the duration of the order so that it does not have an unnecessarily long duration. The Tribunal will also have power to revoke or vary a suspension or stay order, so that changing circumstances can be met. These are all powers which the Tribunal does not at present have. 
Section 41 at present prevents the making of a suspension or stay order unless the decisionmaker has been given a reasonable opportunity to make a submission to the Tribunal. This could undesirably delay the making of a stay order in some cases. Under the proposed amendments it will no longer be necessary to afford the decisionmaker the opportunity to make a submission where it is impracticable to do so. As a safeguard, however, an order made in those circumstances will not come into operation until a notice setting out its terms is served on the decision-maker. He will then be able quickly to seek revocation or variation of the order if he considers it necessary. 
An appeal lies on questions of law to the Federal Court of Australia from a decision of the Tribunal. Under sub-section 44(6) of the existing legislation, the Court has powers similar to those of the Tribunal to make suspension or stay orders. Clauses 8 and 9 have been included in the Bill to ensure that the Court's powers are parallel to the broader powers which are to be conferred on the Tribunal. The amendments will also ensure that the Court's powers extend to both the Tribunal's decision and the original decision which the Tribunal was reviewing. 
The Bill also contains some matters of a machinery nature. These cover an amendment to sub-section 21 (1a) relating to the Tribunal's constitution when hearing certain preliminary matters, an extension to a maximum 28 days of the times within which a decision-maker must provide findings of fact and reasons for decisions, and a provision to cover staffing arrangements following Northern Territory selfgovernment. The changes are set out in clauses 3, 4, 5 and 13 of the Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
-I ask leave of the House to move a motion to enable Orders of the Day Nos. 2, 3, 15, and resumption of the debate on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill to be called on forthwith. 
Leave not granted. 
Motion ( by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent Orders of the Day Nos. 1, 2, 3,15, and resumption of the debate on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill, Government Business, being called on. 
I move: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on the following Bills, so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of all the Bills: 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for National Development to Question No. 4328 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  6 November 1979, page 2657). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The CRAFT sheme is not a scheme under which training takes place. Apprentices are taken on in the normal way in the public and private sectors and employers- where eligible- are paid a rebate for the release of their apprentices to undertake the technical education component of their basic trade course (normally 3 years) or to undertake an offthejob training programme. 
In the 1978-79 financial year there were 1706 apprentices employed in Commonwealth establishments who generated CRAFT rebates. 
The Departments and instrumentalities which received CRAFT rebates in 1978-79 were 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(D-_ 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) Jerringah Tribal Council Housing Company Ltd was granted $85,000 in 1978-79 for housing and $48,422 for Town Management and Public Utilities. One house was completed and one commenced. 
Bakandji Ltd was granted $220,000 in 1978-79 for housing, $2,640 for training and $2,573 for Town Management and Public Utilities. Four houses were completed. 
The Aboriginal Housing Company of the South Coast Ltd was granted $71,968 in 1978-79 for housing and $13,301 for culture, recreation and sporting activities. Three houses commenced in 1977-78 were completed. 
The Aboriginal Housing Company Ltd was granted $453,039 in 1978-79 for housing. Seven houses were purchased and legal fees paid for the purchase of an eighth house. Renovations to five houses were completed. 
and (3) No. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
No. 
and (3) See (1) above 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(D- 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Let me make one thing quite clear right at the outset. The document which came into the possession of the Liberal Party of Australia came from a Labor Party source. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-What I said at the outset of my reply to the censure motion was that the document which came into the hands of the Liberal Party of Australia came from a Labor Party source. I suggest,  Mr Speaker,  that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  instead of looking for a scapegoat on this side of the House, should look for the Judas within his own ranks. That is what he should be doing. Let me also make some facts absolutely clear. The document from which I quoted the day before yesterday was a document typed by the Liberal Party of Australia from the source material to which the Leader of the Opposition refers. That is what he refers to as a bogus document. But it is quite clear from what the Leader of the Opposition has said today that the authenticity of the contents of this document has been verified. There is no question whatsoever about that. I table the papers to which I have referred in the House. The front page is a frontispiece typed by the Liberal Party. The headings are typed by the Liberal Party. All the contents of the document are authentic from the source material as verified by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Let the Leader of the Opposition deny the authenticity of the contents of that document. He cannot do so, of course, because he knows from his own checking that the contents are correct. Perhaps, when I referred to the Combe report, I should have referred to the Mullins report- the report from Mullins, Clarke and Ralph Pty Ltd. There is no question that the material was prepared by the advertising people of the Labor Party, the propagandists for the Labor Party, and was available to the Labor Party. So what we clearly have here today is an attempt by a classic smear campaign to overcome the Labor Party's own inefficiencies. 
Let me quote the Leader of the Opposition as reported at page 3279 of the  Hansard  of 71 November. 
I quote from a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition on 21 November. Page 3279 of  Hansard  states: 
There are strategy papers which have been drawn together by the Labor Party. Those papers have not been collated by the Labor Party . . . into a compendious document - 
The Leader of the Opposition said that there are strategy papers which have been drawn together by the Labor Party, and they are the documents to which I referred. I also inform the House of advice that I received this morning. On 12 November five other offices in the building occupied by Mullins, Clarke and Ralph (NSW) Pty Ltd were burgled- broken into- and had cash stolen. On 13 November it was reported that only cash had been stolen. Further up the street, in the permanent building society building nine other offices were broken into. Is the Leader of the Opposition suggesting that the burglar who is supposed to have stolen the Labor Party advertising document did a magnificent cover-up by burgling 13 other offices? As my colleague in the Senate, the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick),  pointed out, this particular document has been circulating since some time in Octoberwell before the burglary of that building on 12 November. The document was known widely to be available. So much for a very transparent attempt to label the material as bogus material, to label the document as a bogus document and to allege that somebody within the Labor Party burgled the premises of Mullins, Clarke and Ralph Pty Ltd. 
It is also apparent that this censure motion, transparent as it is, is a last desperate throe by the Leader of the Opposition to regain some credibility within his own party. The document to which I have referred, under the heading of ALP and "Swinging" Voter', shows the crass stupidity and the rank hypocrisy of the Labor Party and the fact that its Leader holds no credibility whatsoever within the Party or among members of the back bench, who are sitting mute at the moment. The document refers to the swingers; those who show any willingness to change. It states: 
Remember that contrary to the popular myth, they - 
The swinging voters- are not discerning upper middle class professionals who carefully reason through their vote. They are basically ignorant and indifferent about politics. They vote - 
Says this Labor Party document- 
. on instinct for superficial, ill informed and generally selfish reasons. 
So much for the regard that the Labor Party has for the electors of Australia. 
-I further quote from this document: 
-I will read the rest of the document at the invitation of the Leader of the Opposition. It states: 
. and only if, they can get some kind of line on him, preferably one involving some sense of hope for Australia's future. Giving Bill Hayden some kind of profile - 
Does anybody really think he can be given a profile? Not even the members of the Opposition in this House think that. It continues: 
Giving Bill Hayden some kind of profile in the minds of these people therefore, is the only communications objective that offers the slightest hope of success. 
Because of the indifference of these people, and their information consumption patterns, this objective can be achieved only with a minimum number of thoughts repeated a maximum number of times. 
We have heard the shadow Minister for Employment talk about technology. What he is suggesting is that the Leader of the Opposition go in for word processing. I repeat: 
. only with a minimum number of thoughts repeated a maximum number of times. 
The document continues: 
When you are sick of saying it, they'll just be starting to notice it. 
It is a strange phenomenon that every time a Labor Party document is leaked it is alleged that there has been a break-in; yet every time a Liberal Party document is leaked, it is a leak. What has happened in this case is that a leak has developed within the Labor Party and the Leader of the Opposition has quickly gone to water. I suggest that not only can he not walk on water but he cannot even swim through the engulfment surrounding him at the moment. When we come back for the autumn sitting, every day that the Leader of the Opposition sits in this House Bob Hawke will be breathing so closely down his neck and he will be so worried that there is no possibility at all that he will be able to have a profile within the House or amongst the voters. 

 Government members interjecting- 


 -Mr Speaker, with your indulgence, I wish to make a personal explanation with regard to the matter raised by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham ). 
I approached the honourable member to see whether he would be prepared to debate the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill that night. I introduced the Bill earlier that day. The honourable gentleman agreed to that course being followed. After I had read my second reading speech, the appropriate questions were put to have the debate on the second reading of that Bill adjourned to a later hour of that day. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Government's response to the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 33 (2) of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Act 1977 I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Law Reform Commission 1979. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies on the Social Impact of Uranium Mining on the Aborigines of the Northern Territory. 
Following a request earlier today from the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  I formally present a statement on the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Torres Strait Treaty. I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jacobi)  adjourned. 
Following a request earlier today, from the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  I formally present a statement in response to the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Middle East. I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jacobi)  adjourned. 
by leave- The Commonwealth Government is concerned about the problems of young people in making the transition from school to work or to further education, and is prepared to join with the States and the Northern Territory in developing a comprehensive policy to assist them. The Commonwealth will provide additional grants to a total of $150m over five years for a special transition program involving matching contributions from the States and the Northern Territory in the later years. The Commonwealth's contribution in 1980 will be $25m, rising to $40m in real terms in 1984. It is envisaged that a range of developments in the interests of young people making the transition from school to employment will be stimulated or extended as a result of this initiative and that in the longer term the education system as a whole will become better geared to the needs of young people in the changing circumstances of the 1980s. Our primary concern is the 50,000 young people who now leave school each year with poor employment prospects. We wish to provide appropriate education and training courses for them and also tackle the problem of those in the schools who are likely to be in similar difficulties when it comes their turn to leave. 
Developments likely to occur in 1980 with support from the Commonwealth's provision of an additional $25m include: 
Expansion and development of transition courses in technical and further education institutions, including pre-apprenticeship, prevocational and pre-employment courses. 
These would be full time courses up to one year in duration to prepare young people for vocations, particularly in the trades and technical occupations where shortages of skilled workers still exist. 
Expansion of the number of places available in the Education Program for Unemployed Youth-EPUY. 
It is expected that an additional 7,000 places could become available in these TAFE courses in 1980, with substantial further increases in later years. 
Development of improved services and techniques for identifying potential early school leavers. 
Expansion of school counsellor, vocational education and guidance services to provide more intensive and comprehensive assistance for students at risk and their parents. 
Development of alternative courses in schools for potential early leavers. 
Establishment of after-school and vacation programs of vocational education and counselling. 
Development of 'link' courses involving students' participation in programs combining elements of secondary and TAFE courses. 
Teacher development programs- in-service courses and re-orientation programs to fit numbers of teachers for their roles in the development and implementation of alternative courses and identification and counselling of at risk 'students. 
Community education projects to include increasing employers' and parents' understanding of school activities and programs to increase teachers' awareness of specific employment requirements for new employees. 
The Government acknowledges that a number of measures is already available from the States and the Commonwealth to assist young people to be better prepared for the world of work. It considers, however, that there is a need for substantial changes and development in education, training and preparation for initial employment for a significant minority of young people who have unsatisfactory experiences at this important and formative stage of their lives. The Government has decided, therefore, to commence a program of special action directed to the transition from education to working life. 
The aim of the Commonwealth 's policy is that ultimately all young people in the 15 to 19 years age group be provided with options in education, training and employment, or any combination of these, either part time or full time, so that unemployment becomes the least acceptable alternative. Progress towards this objective is seen as involving development of improved techniques for identifying children at school who are likely to be at risk in transition from education to work, improved vocational education and counselling services and provision of alternative courses for at risk* students. Other developments might include extension of work experience and community service programs involving students at school and of 'link' courses combining elements of secondary and TAFE courses. Teacher development programs may need to be supplemented or adapted to prepare larger numbers of teachers to implement the changes successfully. In addition, expansion and development of TAFE programs, such as pre-apprenticeship and preemployment courses and the EPUY program, which contribute to the successful transition of young people to employment is regarded as an important element of a comprehensive transition education and training program. In the development of programs the Government would wish to see attention given to the particular problems which girls have in making the transition from education to employment. 
It will be important to the success of the new policy that effective guidance and counselling services be available. In addition to making some provision for this in the special funding arrangements, the Commonwealth wishes to review with the States the existing vocational guidance services to see how they can be improved and rationalised. Over a period the Commonwealth wishes to see the pattern of allowances and benefits for young people, and of related assistance to industry, reorganised to ensure that these separate measures provide the appropriate incentives to participation in education and training. This important aspect of a comprehensive policy is being examined, but we do not intend to withdraw or reduce the unemployment benefits presently available to young people. 
The developments the Commonwealth proposes follow from the consideration the Commonwealth and the States have been giving to issues in transition for some time. They are consistent with the deliberations of the Australian Education Council, which led the State, Northern Territory and Commonwealth Ministers for Education who constitute the Council, at its meeting last month, to endorse the need for a comprehensive policy on transition from school to work. In my capacity as Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs I was able to attend that meeting. The developments are also a natural consequence of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. The additional funds will be available for agreed programs in government school and TAFE systems and non-government school systems from the beginning of 1980. They will be provided, as special grants, in addition to the programs of the Tertiary Education Commission and the Schools Commission. Commonwealth grants will be made available under the program for a period of five years as follows, with expenditure adjusted after 1 980 to allow for inflation: 
The Commonwealth's contributions are being offered on the understanding that in 1981 the States and the Northern Territory will contribute a total of $9m for the agreed program and that in later years they will match the Commonwealth's spending on their government systems dollar for dollar. The particular purposes for which the grants may be spent will be worked out in discussions with State, territorial and nongovernment education authorities to commence immediately the States and the Northern Territory accept the Commonwealth's offer. The Government will invite the Tertiary Education Commission and the Schools Commission to take account of this new policy in the development of their program proposals. 
The problems of transition are not, I stress, an area for government action only. A comprehensive approach to the problems requires the interest, understanding and support of the whole community. Teachers have an obvious and crucial part to play. Parents need to encourage and support their children and to be interested and involved in the vital work of the schools and the decisions made by authorities affecting their children. To a large extent the motivations and attitudes of young people are affected by the expectations their parents have of them and the encouragement they receive at home. Employers should develop closer links with education systems, particularly at the local school level, in the interests of, on the one hand, schools understanding better the requirements of the work place and, on the other hand, employers appreciating more clearly the education processs and the difficulties faced by young people and their teachers in preparing adequately for the complex requirements of life and work in the 1980s and 1990s. Organisations of employees should lend their support and participate in the working out of the new arrangements. 
The Government is presenting this initiative as an important and substantial contribution to the difficult problem of equipping our young people for the world of work. With the co-operation and support of the community, the opportunity is now being given to develop a comprehensive approach to the transition from school to work of all young people which, given time, will ensure that the teenage years are productive, constructive and satisfying, and that unemployment is not an option that they would seek rather than participate in the opportunities opened up by a comprehensive transition policy. I present the following paper: 
A Comprehensive Policy for Transition from School to Work- Ministerial Statement, 22 November 1979. 
I am aware that a number of honourable members on both sides of the House would like the opportunity to debate this report at some later time. I therefore seek leave to move a motion that the House take note of the report. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
That the House take note of the report. 
I table a copy of the statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. I intended to table that report when I made a statement earlier today on transition policies. 
I move: 
That the House, at its rising, adjourn until Tuesday, 19 February next, at 2.15 p.m., unless  Mr Speaker  shall fix an alternative day or hour of meeting or, in the incapacity or absence from Australia of  Mr Speaker,  the  Chairman  of Committees may fix an alternative day or hour, such alternative day or hour of meeting to be notified by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House. 
In speaking to that motion, I take the opportunity to make a few remarks at the close of this session and at the close of this year. I have been Leader of the House for only a short time. I would like to express my thanks to all those people who have so strongly supported me in this new role. I thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for the help and assistance which you have given me and for the help and assistance which you have given the whole House in the manner in which you have conducted the proceedings of this House during these Budget sittings. As you know,  Mr Speaker,  you and I are both barristers. In that respect, some may think that we have earned the title learned in the law'. Others may not agree, of course. When it comes to the application of the Standing Orders, you have had occasion to point out to me the error of some of my ways in this chamber. I have been thankful for the coaching that you have given me in doing that. I hope that with continued coaching I might be able m time to learn the art of the Leader of the House. You  Mr Speaker,  have conducted the proceedings of this House with decorum, dignity and appropriate firmness, where that has been required. I think all members of the House appreciate the way in which you have done that. 
I would like to thank the  Chairman  of Committees and the  Deputy  Speakers for the way in which they have handled their side of the business of the House. There have been some lengthy debates in Committee as well as at the second reading stage of Bills. The  Chairman  of Committees and each of the  Deputy  Speakers have handled that responsibility well and capably. I would like to thank the Clerks at the Table for the way in which they have helped me in my role as Leader of the House. I thank the staff in the Table Office and the other offices of the Parliament. I also thank the Clerks and the other staff and officers on behalf of all members of the House. Theirs is a very important role. The role of the  Clerk  is to advise you,  Mr Speaker,  the  Chairman  of Committees and the  Deputy  Speakers. If the  Clerk,  his officers and the other staff in this area do not operate efficiently, sensibly and wisely, then of course the affairs of this House will stumble. 
I wish to make particular mention of my colleague, the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who is the former Leader of the House. I can speak very plainly on behalf of all of us on this side of the House. We were very sorry to see the way in which the honourable gentleman was treated and the circumstances in which he felt, in the highest sense of duty as a Minister and as a member of parliament, obliged to resign his ministry and his position as Leader of the House. I think we would all say that as we look at 1980 we would certainly hope that the right honourable member for New England will obtain a clear acquittal of the charges levelled against him and that he will come back to this House next year with a completely clean bill of health. We look forward to working very closely with him in the future. 
I wish to express my thanks to my colleague and close friend, the Government Whip. He and I were both elected to this House in 1972. We both won seats from the Labor Party in an election when the Liberal and Country parties lost government. I thank also the  Deputy  Whip for his assistance to me. I thank the Opposition Whip and the  Deputy  Opposition Whip for the way in which they have co-operated with us within the vicissitudes of parliament and the requirements of their own party. I thank also my counterpart, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  for the way in which we have been able to co-operate, again within the interests of and responsibilities for our own parties, to keep the business of the House running smoothly. I have appreciated since becoming Leader of the House, that the Parliamentary Liaison Officer occupies a vital role in the machinery of government. For two and a half years to the end of the last autumn sittings Roger Webb was the Parliamentary Liaison Officer to the former Leader of the House. He has now returned to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. In his place, John Fox has performed the function of Parliamentary Liaison Officer extremely well, extremely ably and with an assiduousness that ought to be commended. He has occupied that position from the commencement of the Budget sittings. 
The  Hansard  staff, as we would judge from some of the proceedings in recent days, has a very difficult task- but nevertheless, as we know, a very important task- in reporting faithfully what has been said in this House for the  Hansard  record. I thank the Principal Parliamentary Reporter and his staff. Always there is the Public Service, more often than not, in anonymity behind all those of whom I have spoken up to now. I wish to thank all of those members of the Public Service who work in support of the operations of this Parliament for the way in which they have carried out their functions. I also thank the staff of the Parliament who help us in this House. 
During the session there have been a number of parliamentary reforms. I will mention them only briefly. The Estimates committees were introduced for the first time. They were conducted as an experiment. I am sure that during the recess honourable members will seriously examine the operation of those Estimates committees, as will the Government. Legislation committees came into operation in the autumn sittings. Although they have not been used in the Budget sittings, I expect that they will be used in the next autumn sittings. You,  Mr Speaker,  have circulated a paper on the Estimates committees. Also, the  Clerk  has circulated a paper on the parliamentary committee system. The report of the Standing Orders Committee which suggests changes to the way in which petitions and claims of privilege are handled is before the House. I expect that during the recess honourable members will consider those papers and reports. 

 Mr Speaker, we are about to leave the decade of the 1970s and enter the decade of the 1980s. I am sure that my colleague, the  Deputy  Prime Minister (  Mr Anthony)  will say to the House that the Government certainly faces the 1980s with confidence. We are very happy with the way in which the Government has operated during this year. We are also very happy with the way in which the House has been able to operate with the help and assistance of you and of the other officers whom I have mentioned. I wish to you,  Sir, and  to all those other officers and staff, the compliments of the season and a happy and healthy New Year. As always, we need that health so that we can carry on our work. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I do not consider that the 1975 Arrangement between the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments with respect to Aboriginal affairs relieves the New South Wales Government 'of financial responsibility for essential public funding of services for Aboriginals'. The Commonwealth's general approach is to secure for Aboriginals access to Government services equal to that accorded other Australian citizens, together with additional services appropriate to their state of extreme disadvantage. Aboriginals, as residents of the State, are entitled to receive general community services provided by the State out of its own resources (including Commonwealth subventions) and to benefit from such community services on the principle of need. My Department supplements State resources, on a selective basis, to make general community services accessible to Aboriginals, to improve or accelerate the provision of such services, and to enable a State to provide selective services to Aboriginals to meet their special needs. 
and (4) As announced in my press statement of 16 October, a grant is being made to the Aboriginal Lands Trust of New South Wales which owns and manages the West Brewarrina housing area ($ 1 9,598 ). This grant includes provision for an initial clean up of the area and for the employment of an additional Aboriginal in the Brewarrina Shire work gang, which will provide a continuing service at West Brewarrina. The Department has provided grants totalling $121,771 to the Aboriginal Lands Trust over the past three years to meet repairs and maintenance and other recurrent costs. 
A meeting was held in Brewarrina on 5 November, chaired by the  President  of the Brewarrina Shire Council and attended by representatives of the Aboriginal community, the Aboriginal Lands Trust, the New South Wales Department of Youth and Community Services and senior officers of my Department. There was general agreement that it was desirable to concentrate expenditure on the construction of new houses of satisfactory standard in and around Brewarrina, rather than on any costly renovation of the existing dwellings at West Brewarrina. My Department is providing $145,000 this financial year and $50,000 in the first pan of 1980-81 to the Ngemba Housing Co-operative for the construction of four houses. Subject to tenant participation, the Co-operative will also have additional funds for the purchase and construction of houses available from the sale of houses to tenants. The Department has provided $561,147 to the Ngemba Housing Co-operative since 1975-76. In addition, substantial grants have been provided to the New South Wales Housing Commission for Aboriginal housing in Brewarrina and the Commission had, at 30 June 1979, completed 18 houses Tor Aboriginals in the town with these grants (and another 14 of the Commission's houses in Brewarrina are occupied by Aboriginals). This year the Housing Commission is completing two more houses and starting construction on another eight with grants from my Department ($193,000). 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The following meetings have taken place with the representatives of States to explore differences in interpretation of the existing agreements in relation to Aboriginal affairs. 
Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council, Adelaide, 18 May 1979 
The Council is a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers with responsibility for Aboriginal Affairs. At this meeting, the Council resolved: that discussions should be held between officers of particular States and the Commonwealth so that the desirability of reviewing arrangements can be considered. ' 
The following Ministers, supported by officers, attended: 
Commonwealth: Minister for Aboriginal Affairs 
New South Wales: Minister for Youth and Community Services 
Victoria: Minister for Housing 
Queensland: Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs 
South Australia: Minister for Community Welfare 
Western Australia: Minister for Health and Community Welfare 
Tasmania: Minister for Environment and Water Resources 
Northern Territory: Chief Minister and AttorneyGeneral. 
Meeting with Victorian Officials, Melbourne, 1 7 September 1979 
Officers representing the following authorities were present: 
State: Ministry of Housing, Department of Education. 
Commonwealth: Departments of Aboriginal Affairs and Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
Meeting with Tasmanian Officials, Hobart, 28 September 1979 
Officers representing the following authorities were present: 
State: Office of the Minister for Ethnic Affairs, Education Department, Housing Department, Health Services Department, Social Welfare Department. 
Commonwealth: Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Meeting with South Australian Officials, Adelaide, 3 October 1979 
Officers representing the following authorities were present: 
State: Premier's Department, Treasury Department, Aboriginal Co-ordinating Committee. 
Commonwealth: Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Meeting with Western Australian Officials, Penh, 4 October 1979 
Officers representing the following authorities were present: 
State: Depanment of Health and Medical Services, Education Depanment, Crown Law Department, State 
Housing Commission, Treasury Department, Department of Community Welfare. 
Commonwealth: Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Meeting with New South Wales Officials, Sydney, 24 October 1979 
Officers representing the following Departments were present: 
State: Department of Youth and Community Services, Treasury Department, Premier's Department. 
Commonwealth: Departments of Aboriginal Affairs and Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
At the meetings of officials the respective financial responsibilities of the Commonwealth and the States in Aboriginal affairs were discussed, together with specific programs and policies in the individual States which are affected by the division of responsibilities. 
There was broad agreement with most States that the arrangements were satisfactory in general terms. 
Further negotiations need to be held with each State concerned to determine more precisely which services should be provided respectively by the Commonwealth and the States. 
Australian Wheat Board  (Question No. S0S6) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) As at 29 March 1979,  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C, was not acting for the Commonwealth in relation to any legal proceedings.  Mr Rofe  was, however, acting in the following cases for Commonwealth officers, functionaries and statutory instrumentalities: 
Thomas Barton, ex parte the Official Receiver (public examination). 
Thomas Barton, ex parte the Official Receiver (application to have payment declared void). 
Donald William Thomas v. Demos Hadjapanyotis and Others. 
) Thomas Moss v. Ian Torrance. 
Carmont v. Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Trade Practices Commission v. George Weston Foods Pty Limited and Others. 

 Mr Rofe acted for the Commonwealth in relation to the following proceedings and was paid fees as stated: 
during 1975-76 Commonwealth of Australia v. Muratore (paid $2 1 5 in September 1 975 ). 
during 1976-77 the proceedings referred to in (a) of this paragraph (paid $870 in September 1976 and $100 in December 1976) and the following additional proceedings- Gee v. Commonwealth of Australia (paid $825 in December 1977). 
during the period1 July 1 978 to 29 March 1979: the proceedings referred to in (a) and (b) of this paragraph- Commonwealth v. Muratore (paid $310 in August 1978) and the following additional proceedings- Regina v. David Allen Gee (paid $40,599 during the period ). 
As at 29 March 1979 no amounts were outstanding in respect of proceedings in which  Mr Rofe  has acted for the Commonwealth. 
Information in relation to matters in respect of which  Mr Rofe  acted for Commonwealth officers, functionaries and statutory instrumentalities for relevant periods mentioned in paragraph 2 of the honourable member's question and the amounts paid to  Mr Rofe  in respect of each of those matters, is set out hereunder 
during 1975-76 the following proceedings referred to in(l): 
(paid $600 in July 1975). 
(paid $500 in April 1976). 
(Nil payment- matter did not proceed) and the following additional proceedings- Donald William Thomas v. David Gee (paid $8,0 1 9 during 1975-76). 
Collector of Customs v. Wilh Wilhemsen Agency Pty Ltd (paid $387 in August 1975); Waller v. Australian Broadcasting Commission (paid $240 in February 1974 on first briefing in this matter and paid $2,300 on rebriefing in November 1975). 
during 1976-77: the following proceeding referred to in(l): 
(paid $175 in October 1976) the following proceedings referred to in (4)(a)- Thomas v. Gee (paid $3,496 in 1976-77) and the following additional proceedings- Application to Federal Court by Gail Barton, Lily Barton, Alexander Barton and Thomas Barton (paid $1,490 in March 1977); Appeal by Gail Barton, Lily Barton, Alexander Barton and Thomas Barton (paid $ 1 , 0 1 8 in March 1 977 ); 
Application by Thomas Barton for Annulment of Bankruptcy (paid $260 in March 1977). 
during the period 1 July 1978 to 29 March 1979-the following proceedings referred to in ( 1 ): 
(paid $20,02 1 .65 during the period ). 
(paid $ 190 during the period) and the following additional proceedings- Trade Practices Commission v. Pacific Film Laboratories Pty Limited (paid $2,875 in September 1978); Trade Practices Commission v. George Weston Foods Pty Limited and Others (paid $160 in September 1978 and $250 in November 1978). 
5 ) In respect of matters mentioned in (4) above: 
no amounts were outstanding in respect of completed proceedings; 
an amount of approximately $15,000 was outstanding in respect of proceedings referred to in ( 1 )(c). 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1 977 will be proclaimed as soon as the Government has considered and reached a decision on any exclusions of classes of decisions from the provisions of the Act and any necessary legislation to give effect to the Government's decision has been enacted. The matter is under consideration by Government at the present time. 
Yes. 
In its Third Annual Report the Administrative Review Council has indicated the nature and extent of the exclusions sought by Departments and agencies. I am giving consideration to tabling the Council's full Report to me on this matter. 
See answer to question ( 1 ). 
Television Services on Eyre Peninsula  (Question No. 4146) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Since January 1976, the following departments and statutory authorities employing staff under the Public Service Act have had reductions in the numbers of public servants employed: 
Departments- 
Aboriginal Affairs 
Administrative Services 
Business and Consumer Affairs 
Capital Territory 
Construction (i) 
Education 
Employment and Industrial Relations (ii) 
Environment, Housing and Community Development (iii) 
Finance 
Foreign Affairs 
Industry and Commerce 
National Resources (iv) 
Northern Territory ( v) 
Overseas Trade ( vi ) 
Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Repatriation (vii) 
Science (viii) 
Transport 
Treasury 
Authorities, etc- 
Australian Broadcasting Control Board (ix) 
Australian Bureau of Statistics 
Australian Film Commission 
Australian Government Publishing Service 
Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office 
Australian Taxation Office 
Bureau of Agricultural Economics 
Bureau of Meteorology 
Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics 
Bureau of Transport Economics 
Children's Commission (x) 
Commission on Advanced Education (xi) 
Forestry and Timber Bureau 
Hospitals and Health Services Commission (xii) 
Industries Assistance Commission 
Legal Aid Commission 
National Library of Australia 
Office of Parliamentary Counsel 
Papua New Guinea Office 
Patents, Trade Marks and Designs Office 
Public Service Board (except Mandata) 
Royal Australian Mint 
Schools Commission 
Social Welfare Commission (xiii) 
Technical and Further Education Commission (xi) 
Universities Commission (xi) 
The name of the Department of Construction was changed to the Department of Housing and Construction on 5 December 1978. 
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was abolished on 5 December 1978. 
The Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development was abolished on 5 December 1978. 
The Department of National Resources was abolished on 20 December 1977. 
The Department of the Northern Territory was abolished on 28 September 1978. 
vi) The Department of Overseas Trade was abolished on 20 December 1977. 
The name of the Department of Repatriation was changed to the Department of Veterans ' Affairs on 5 October 1976. 
The name of the Department of Science was changed to the Department of Science and the Environment on 5 December 1978. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board was replaced by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal on 1 January 1977. 
The Children's Commission was abolished in 1976. 
The Commission on Advanced Education, the Technical and Further Education Commission and the Universities Commission were replaced by the Tertiary Education Commission on 22 June 1 977. 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission was abolished in 1978. 
The Social Welfare Commission was abolished in 1976. 
Since 1976, reductions in the numbers of Commonwealth Public Servants employed have occurred in the First, Second, Third and Fourth Divisions. 
Since 1976 reductions in the numbers of Commonwealth Public servants employed have occurred in the States of Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia, the Northern Territory and overseas. 
After making adjustments for movements into and out of Public Service Act coverage during the years 1976 to 1978, there has been a net reduction of 69 1 1 staff. Based on current average payments, current savings in government expenditure issued salaries and wages are estimated at $87m per annum. It is not practicable to calculate savings by category. 
Over the period to June 1979, 1250 Public Service Act staff who became surplus to requirements of departments and authorities were redeployed to other work areas without the issue of formal notice of redundancy. Seventy-seven staff were issed with notices of redundancy. Of these, 36 have since been redeployed, 11 others have retired on age or invalidity grounds and 10 have been retrenched. The Public Service Board is continuing its efforts to place the remaining 20 in other positions. 
All of the retrenchments were made at the request of the staff concerned under the provisions of the relevant Public Service Arbitrator's Determination. 
Information published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics indicates changes in employment as set out in the table below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Detailed lists of Commonwealth statutory authorities and the legislation under which they were established were provided in the First Report on 'Statutory authorities of the Commonwealth' presented by the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on 20 February 1979 (Senate  Hansard,  p. 18) and up-dated in the Committee's Second Report presented on 15 November 1 979 (Senate  Hansard,  p. 2326). I would expect that the date of the establishment of the authority would coincide in the great majority of cases with the. stated date of the related legislation. 
In the circumstances, I would not feel justified in authorising the considerable resources which would be necessary to extract the information and compile it in the form sought by the honourable member. If the honourable member could be more specific as to his interest, I would give the matter further consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of the media reports of the remarks made by the Secretary of the South Australian Branch of the ACOA, but understand that the point she made was that flexible working hours arrangements in the Public Service made it more difficult to identify staff with alcohol problems through patterns of absenteeism than would a system which required rigid daily hours of attendance. A recent review of flexible working hours by the Public Service Board did not reveal any widespread abuse of the system. 
Consulate-General in Los Angeles  (Question No. 4384) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) This question appears to refer to the concept of 'discouraged job-seekers' which has been the subject of a number of special surveys carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS). According to the results of the latest ABS survey of this type conducted in March 1 979, there were an estimated 63,400 'discouraged job-seekers' in Australia as at that date. 
(a) Between May 1976 and September 1979 the number of persons looking for full-time work as measured by the ABS labour force survey increased by 109,200. 
The ABS labour force survey showed that the employed labour force increased by 135,800 between May 1976 and September 1979 (the nearest relevant dates for which data are available). 
According to the ABS, the number of unemployed persons who indicated that they were not registered with the CES increased between May 1976 and July 1979 (the nearest relevant dates for which data are available ) by 1 9,900. 
No specific forecast of the estimated size of the labour force for 1 979-80 is available. 
No specific forecast of registered unemployed during 1979-80 is provided in the Budget. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Apart from CYSS, where there was a marginal reduction, no decisions were taken in the Budget context which would limit the overall numbers of people in training. 
The major drop in expenditure is a result of the lesser demand forSYETP funds as a result of decisions taken in 1978 to make the program more effective by limiting abuses and by providing training opportunities for the young people most in need. There will be no restrictions on eligible young persons being placed in SYETP vacancies this financial year. Moreover there were significant increases in funds provided for CRAFT and for Training and Industry and Commerce. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The Public Service Board has informed me that a copy of the record of proceedings of the meetings held on 18 October 1978, 30 November 1978, and 30 January 1979 between officers of the Public Service Board, the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, the Department of Foreign Affairs and certain unions was included in submissions tabled by Board Officers during the proceedings before the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission relating to the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Act 1979. Unions have access to these documents which are now a matter of public record. 
b) I do not propose to request the Public Service Board to release the Joint Review Committee's report to the public service unions. As was indicated in the reply to Question No. 3572, the report was an internal working document for management 
The Public Service Board has informed me that the record of the meeting of 18 October 1978 indicates that unions were advised that the possibility of releasing to the staff-side the report of the joint review com mittee, or extracts from it, would be examined. As was stated in the answer to Question No. 3572 the Board considered that the report, because it was an internal working document for management, could not be released in full. The unions were advised of this by letter on 3 November 1978 and again at a meeting on 30 November 1978. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1)1 was referring, in my reply to  Senator Georges,  to assertions made in press statements issued by Aboriginals in Europe recently that Aboriginal people have been and remain 'the target of a consistent policy of genocide for 200 years', that they are now in the last phase 'leading to the complete destruction of the Australian Aboriginals' and that the Australian Government is driven by avarice and has ruthlessly pushed aside the desires and fears of the Aboriginal people in order to start mining uranium'. 
This is a matter of opinion, but it is a fact that a number of communities in Aboriginal reserves in Queensland are still managed by Government officials which is not the case in other States and Territories. 
Action is already being taken to make available accurate information about the situation of Aboriginals in Australia to the media and interested organisations in Europe. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Public Service Board has placed advertisements concerning industrial disputes in which it has been involved in newspapers on two occasions in the last four years. Other media have not been used. 
The total cost of the newspaper advertising was $60,124. 
The costs of these advertisements were met from the Incidental and Other Expenditure Item of the Board's Administrative Expenses- Division 516. 
The advertisements were prepared in the Public Service Board and were placed in the normal manner by the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Fisheries Amendment Act 1978 removed imprisonment as a direct penalty in respect of offences under the Act committed by foreign fishermen, except in cases of offences relating to the obstruction of officers. This amendment accords with provisions that have been negotiated with respect to the 200 miles offshore fishing zones of coastal countries at the current United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. Instead, the Act allows for the imposition of heavy fines. In default of payment of fines imposed, foreign fishermen continue, however, to be liable to imprisonment. Imprisonment remains a penalty under the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act 1968 that applies to the taking of sedentary species. Australia has no international obligations to allow foreigners access to those species on its continental shelf and they will not be dealt with in fisheries agreements that Australia negotiates with other countries. At present, there are no arrangements under which a person serving a sentence of imprisonment, including imprisonment in default of payment of a fine, may be transferred to another country for the purpose of serving the sentence in that other country. The conclusion of such arrangements will need to await the outcome of negotiations that are currently proceeding for a scheme for the transfer of prisoners between the States and Territories of Australia. With respect to countries which may not share the basic criminal justice system applicable in Australia, very careful consideration would have to be given to the basis for any transfer arrangements to ensure that persons transferred from Australia not only received treatment in accordance with our notions of penal justice but that they would also be required to undergo imprisonment for a sufficient period, in accordance with their Australian sentence, to deter them from breaches of Australia's fisheries legislation in the future. The matter raised by the honourable member will, however, be kept under consideration by the Government in the light of experience in the administration of the Australian fishing zone. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. 
Funding to Barwon Aboriginal Community Ltd had been deferred because of financial management problems in the company. An interim release of funds was made in October pending discussions with the Company. 
The letter to  Mr Martin  referred to was signed by  Mr Roberts  on 3 October and was received in Sydney on5 October.  Mr Martin  has now replied to this letter. I am informed that this reply indicated that all the accusations made are without foundation. 
Excise on Low Alcohol Beer  (Question No.  4860) 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) No. 
Public tenders were not called as it was neither practicable nor appropriate to do so. This decision was taken by the Department in consultation with the Department of Finance. The role of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was limited to the selection of a broker who would examine the feasibility of developing a bulk insurance package involving various types of insurance to be available for purchase by Aboriginal organisations at concessional rates. It did not extend to the administration of any contract nor was any payment from the Public Account involved. 
See(l). 
Four brokers declined to submit bids and withdrew from negotiations: 
Stenhouse Reed Shaw Ltd 
Sedgwick Forbes Leslie Pty Ltd 
J. Ranger and Associates Pty Ltd Minet Australia Limited. 
No broker was dismissed. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
To proceed with the evaluation of the bulk insurance proposal as a matter of priority. 
Proceeded with evaluation of the feasibility of bulk insurance for Aboriginal organisations. 
10) Total premiums paid p.a. prior to commencement of bulk insurance negotiations was estimated as $2. 6m. 
Current valuation is not accurately known. 
Assets include vehicles, houses, other buildings/ properties, fences, bores, stock, plant and equipment, office equipment, business stock in trade. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (6) I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 4668 and to my statement in response to Questions Without Notice in the Senate on 23 October 1979  (Hansard,  page 1610). 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Thirty-one positions in 1 977 and three positions in 1978. 
$153,908. 
Yes. 
Five. 
Yes. 
It is not possible to recover grants already paid out from Companies that do not continue to employ Aboriginals on their pay roll. 
-The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2)- The questions involve matters of legal opinion which depend for their answer upon the circumstances relating to the judgments, opinions and official memoranda referred to and the way in which, in any particular instance, they may have been brought into existence. 
-The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) A firm of Washington Attorneys, Messrs Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin and Kahn, has been retained by the Government for the purposes of protecting its interests in matters arising out of attempts to apply United States antitrust laws to conduct outside the United States. That firm has acted for the Government in this intervention. 
An account from the firm in respect of the intervention has not yet been received but in response to inquiries made in the light of this question the firm has advised that an account will soon be rendered for the period 1 June to 31 October 1979. That account will be for professional fees of $US 10,476 and disbursements of SUS755.2 1. The firm is unable, having regard to the way in which its accounts have been kept, to apportion these amounts precisely between the intervention and the other related antitrust matters, but has commented that all except about $US2,000 would have been included directly in connection with the Court of Appeals proceedings. 
In accordance with the normal practice in such interventions in the United States a need is not expected to arise for any personal appearance before the Court, on behalf of the Government, to elaborate on the amicus curiae memorandum it has filed. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2): The Government is currently examining the question of secondary school students being able to participate in work experience programs in Commonwealth Departments. 
The need to devise an effective system of compensation for injuries incurred by school students is one of the problems which is being addressed. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As previously indicated the Government proposes to vest in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal jurisdiction to review decisions of the Director-General of Social Security that do not accord with a Social Security Appeals Tribunal's recommendation. In its Third Annual Report tabled in Parliament on 6 November 1979, the Administrative Review Council recommended that, subject to provision of adequate accommodation and staffing, the jurisdiction should be vested as soon as possible. The Council is currently examining the social security appeals system and any recommendations it makes will be considered by the Government in due course. 
and (3) Provision has been made in section 69 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 for the AttorneyGeneral, in the circumstances mentioned in the section, to authorize the provision of legal or financial assistance to a person who is, or proposes to be, a party to a proceeding before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Section 69 would be applicable in social security cases and also in other classes of cases in which the Tribunal has jurisdiction. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) No recent representations have been made or discussions held on the terms of development of the Aurukun bauxite deposit However, on IS November 1979 I met briefly with the Project Officer of Aurukun Associates who outlined his organisation 's discussions with the Aurukun Aboriginal community and the more recently elected Aurukun Shire Council. These discussions were concerned with the employment and training opportunities for Aboriginals should mining operations commence there in the future. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Each community decides who should be offered work under a Community Development Employment Project. If more people are seeking work than can be employed, they could be eligible for unemployment benefit, subject to the ordinary tests. 
Regular monitoring and assessment is carried out by officers of my Department, with the assistance of officers from the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. 
The allocation for wages approximates the total value of unemployment benefits for which unemployed members of the community are eligible. Wages on costs (workers' compensation, etc) are provided in addition to this allocation. Costs of administration, materials and equipment may also be provided up to a limit of approximately ten per cent of the allocation for wages and associated costs. 
As indicated in my statement of 14 November, some 650 Aboriginals are at present employed under the scheme and the expansion of it could provide employment for some 1,200 more. The scheme is aimed at providing employment in remote communities where unemployed people often do not register as such and are not included in official statistics, but the expansion of the scheme is intended to help reduce the numbers of unemployed Aboriginals. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In my statement of 13 November I emphasised that the examination would be without detriment to the basic principles of the Act; and I further stated in the Senate on IS November during the passage of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill that the right of veto is a matter of principle and, therefore, outside the scope of the review. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to question No. 5053. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) Records held by my Department do not indicate that any direct Commonwealth financial assistance was provided to the Framlingham community before 1975-76. Assistance provided by my Department from 1975-76 to 1978-79 and estimated funding for 1979-80 is as follows: 1975- 76, $6,735-Employment. 1976- 77, $2,000-Purchase of fire fighting equipment. 1977- 78, Nil. 1978- 79, Nil. 1979- 80, $30,525- Training and wages costs, repairs and maintenance to existing housing and services including fire prevention equipment. 
Note: above figures reflect financial assistance by my Department Direct assistance by other agencies is not known although it is understood that $9,250 is to be made available in 1 979-80 under the NEAT Scheme and $800 is to be provided through the Aboriginal Arts Board. 
No feasibility studies have been carried out by my Department 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
